During Greg Smith’s first week at Goldman Sachs, he was issued an identification badge and an e-mail address and each morning he had to scramble to make sure he got an 18-inch folding stool. In the first chapter of his book “Why I Left Goldman Sachs: A Wall Street Story,” Mr. Smith writes that interns carried the stool with them at all times because there were no spare chairs on the trading floor. The stool, he said, was a Goldman status marker, a sign that one was an underling without a permanent chair. Goldman Sachs has long had a reputation as one of Wall Street’s most competitive firms, and Mr. Smith’s book appears to be shaping up as a window into that culture. Applicants compete fiercely to be hired and many do not make it through their first year. Those who do survive typically go on to make multimillion-dollar bonuses and then leave, often in their early 40s, for other careers on Wall Street or elsewhere. The book, which is scheduled to be released by Grand Central Publishing on Monday, follows an article that Mr. Smith wrote for the Op-Ed page of The New York Times in March. In that article, Mr. Smith, a former salesman for the firm, portrayed a corrupt corporate culture, saying it made him ill how “callously” employees at Goldman talked about “ripping off” their clients. Based on just the first chapter, which is available on Apple’s iTunes store, it is unclear what negative things Mr. Smith may have to say about the Wall Street firm. But the titles of some other chapters — “Welcome to the Casino” and “Monstrosities” — suggest they may prove more embarrassing to Goldman. Both Goldman and Grand Central declined to comment. The first chapter of the book suggests that Mr. Smith was either a very good note-taker during his 10-plus-year career at Goldman or has a photographic memory. One passage is written as if it were based on a transcript. Mr. Smith is also selective in whom he names. He singles out friends like Mark Mulroney, a son of the former Canadian prime minister, for example, but refers to others only by their first names. The first chapter of Mr. Smith’s book was leaked on the eve of Goldman’s third-quarter earnings report. The March article struck a nerve, both at Goldman and more broadly. Within 24 hours, it had more than three million views online and publishers began bidding for the rights to a book. Grand Central Publishing, a division of the Hachette Book Group, secured the deal, offering Mr. Smith an advance of close to $1.5 million, according to people with direct knowledge of the negotiations. Mr. Smith has not spoken publicly since the publication of the March article. He is scheduled to appear Sunday on “60 Minutes.” As for Goldman, it began an internal investigation to check the veracity of Mr. Smith’s claims. In the article, Mr. Smith said Goldman often referred to its clients as muppets, British slang for a stupid person. Goldman did an e-mail search for the word and found a number of references, but a person briefed on the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity said almost every one was referring to the movie of the same name. The first chapter, titled ‘I Don’t Know but I’ll Find Out” begins on Mr. Smith’s first day at Goldman, where he was one of 75 interns in the sales and trading program. Twice weekly he attended what are known inside Goldman as ‘Open Meeting,’ which he says is the firm’s version of boot camp for trainees. The meetings started at 6 a.m. and if enough people showed up late, the entire class had to attend a makeup meeting at 5 a.m. the next day. He writes that a partner would stand at the front of the room, list in hand, and call on people, asking questions ranging from the year the company was founded to Goldman’s position on a certain stock. Mr. Smith had a strategy for survival, volunteering to answer the questions he knew the answer to, in hopes of avoiding being called on for questions he could not answer. Not everyone survived, he says, recalling an exchange in transcript form between one intern and a Goldman vice president over Goldman’s view on Microsoft that sent the intern running from the meeting in tears. Still, Mr. Smith, the son of a Johannesburg pharmacist, says he immediately embraced the Goldman culture. He writes that he got an interview at the firm because he knew that the first two people to apply online for Goldman internships got interviews. Mr. Smith worked on Goldman’s equities trading floor in Lower Manhattan. He writes that many of his days were spent hauling his stool around the floor and there were always more interns than stools. He would be called upon to grab research on stocks, and frequently was asked to pick up lunch for trading desks. The idea here, he said, was if an intern gets a lunch order wrong they are probably going to err elsewhere. Mr. Smith recalls one Goldman executive who asked an intern for a Cheddar cheese sandwich. The intern came back with a Cheddar cheese salad. The executive was furious, and threw the salad out. A version of this article appears in print on 10/16/2012, on page B6 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Book by Disgruntled Ex-Salesman Offers His Analysis of the Culture at Goldman. Advertisement