Citigroup’s top executives have been asking investors to be patient with their turnaround plans. But that patience was tested on Thursday, as Citigroup reported earnings that for a second consecutive quarter failed to meet Wall Street’s expectations. Flagging trading revenue and the high legal costs of dealing with the bank’s lingering mortgage problems weighed on earnings. Some analysts were also disappointed with the bank’s efforts to cut expenses in the fourth quarter. Excluding accounting adjustments and one-time items, Citigroup’s fourth-quarter earnings were $2.6 billion, 21 percent more than in the year-ago quarter, or 82 cents a share. Wall Street analysts had expected earnings of 95 cents a share. Revenue slipped 1 percent, to $17.8 billion. The disappointing numbers came a little more than a year after Michael L. Corbat took the helm of Citigroup, promising to increase the once deeply troubled bank’s profitability and efficiency.  “Corbat’s star is still high,” said Mike Mayo, a CLSA bank analyst. “But there is no blind faith among bank investors.” Indeed, Citigroup shares closed down 4.35 percent, to $52.60, on Thursday, outpacing declines in the broader stock market. One day earlier, Bank of America reported better-than-expected profits, buoying investors’ hopes that the economic recovery was gaining steam. The contrasting fortunes of the two large banks underscore the uncertain outlook for the American banking industry. While banks are on the mend from the financial crisis, their path to sustained earnings growth is murky. Mr. Corbat said Citigroup was on target to hit many of its turnaround goals by 2015. Despite the difficult quarter, the company reported its highest net income for the year since the financial crisis, helped by stronger investment banking and trading revenue in the first half of the year and success in casting off soured assets in its Citi Holdings unit. “We are not looking for any big move here in terms of the strategy of the firm,” Mr. Corbat said on a conference call with analysts Thursday. During the lengthy call, analysts grilled Mr. Corbat over the decline in Citigroup’s trading revenue. Revenue from trading in bonds, commodities and currencies was down 15 percent, to $2.3 billion, from the period a year earlier, and off 16 percent from the previous quarter. Revenue from equity trading was $539 million, 16 percent higher than in the fourth quarter of 2012, but down 24 percent from the third quarter. Mr. Corbat attributed the decrease to a “challenging trading environment” in the fourth quarter, which included the Federal Reserve’s announcement that it planned to pull back on purchasing certain mortgage-backed securities, and the continued impact of the government shutdown. Citigroup’s chief financial officer, John C. Gerspach, cited a decline in client activity in the fourth quarter, but said he could not explain why clients were making fewer trades. “It’s not that we have something that is broken and needs to be fixed,” Mr. Gerspach said on a call with reporters. In contrast, Bank of America said earlier in the week that its trading revenue was up sharply in the quarter. “I would hate to penalize a bank for one quarter,” Jason Goldberg, a Barclays analyst, said of the Citigroup results. “You have to judge it over time.” But declines in the bank’s other business lines — like mortgage refinancing — only make the quarterly trading losses more glaring. Citigroup officials said they had made significant progress in putting the financial crisis behind it, but Mr. Gerspach warned that legal costs were likely to “remain elevated for the foreseeable future.” A version of this article appears in print on 01/17/2014, on page B5 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Citigroup’s Earnings Jump 21%, but Still Disappoint Analysts. Advertisement