 DAVOS, Switzerland – The rapid adoption of smartphones and the applications that run on mobile devices will make 2014 a “tipping point” that radically changes the way people work and live, said Marissa Mayer, Yahoo’s chief executive. Speaking at the World Economic Forum on Wednesday, Ms. Mayer said technological advances were fundamentally changing the way that people connect with the world, ranging from how they conduct daily errands to their willingness to lend their car to a stranger. “It makes connecting and trusting people easier,” Ms. Mayer said. Ms. Mayer said 2014 would be a crossover year for Yahoo, which for the first time expects more traffic from its users on mobile phones and tablets than on personal computers. Marc R. Benioff, chairman and chief executive of Salesforce.com, said he expected businesses and their customers to connect in very different ways as devices – from automobiles to electric toothbrushes – share data. He noted that he recently received a phone call from Michael S. Dell, founder of the computer maker Dell, to check on whether Mr. Benioff was ill because Mr. Dell noticed that he had not been working out for several days. The two executives share fitness data through a device they wear on their wrists. Businesses will have to adapt to a more customer-focused, readily available model or their customers will go to other providers, he said. Rapidly changing technology will require businesses to be more nimble and to be willing to take risks, said Randall L. Stephenson, chairman and chief executive of AT&T. “If you’re not disruptive, you don’t live,” Mr. Stephenson said. Against that backdrop, the technology leaders said that world governments would have to do more to be transparent about their use of data and adapt laws to this changing world. “I think everybody recognizes the Internet plays a role in protecting us,” said Gavin Patterson, chief executive of the British telecommunications company BT. “I don’t think legislation is keeping up with the technology. It’s just too murky at the moment and needs to be transparent.” Advertisement