Federal authorities are struggling to find evidence to support a criminal case stemming from the collapse of MF Global, even after a federal grand jury in Chicago has issued subpoenas. Investigators, unable to find a smoking gun amid thousands of e-mails and documents, increasingly suspect that chaos and poor risk control systems prompted the disappearance of more than $1 billion in customer money, according to several people involved in the case. When the money first went missing,  prosecutors in New York and Chicago scrambled to stake a claim. Now, four months later, both Preet S. Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan, and Patrick J. Fitzgerald, his counterpart in Chicago, are shying away from leading the case, one of those people involved in the case said.  Indeed, a number of federal prosecutors have expressed doubts to others involved in the case that anyone at MF Global — including the firm’s chief executive, Jon S. Corzine, and back-office employees in Chicago — intentionally misused customer money, said people involved in the case who were not authorized to speak publicly about the investigation.  The subpoenas by the grand jury in Chicago were disclosed by the CME Group, MF Global’s chief regulator, in a securities filing on Tuesday. But the grand jury, according to the person involved in the case, has yet to hear any evidence on the case — a sign that the investigation has yet to bear fruit.  Still, it is early in the investigation, and regulators and others have yet to finish plowing through the mountain of documentation they recently received from the company. In addition, authorities have yet to interview key witnesses — including a person who is believed to have transferred client funds in the firm’s final days.  The inability to bring a criminal case would certainly disappoint thousands of clients, including farmers, traders and hedge fund managers, who are still without access to at least a third of their money.  The government is still hopeful it can file a civil suit against the company, people close to the case said, though doing so against a bankrupt firm with a long line of creditors could be seen as more symbolic than substantive. Such a case would most likely center on the firm’s failure to safeguard client money, a cardinal sin in the world of futures firms. The penalty for improperly dipping into customer money is a roughly $140,000 fine, equal to about a thousandth of the overall shortfall that clients are enduring. Regulators are also weighing a potential case attacking the shoddy risk controls at MF Global, which allowed so much customer money to be transferred out of the segregated accounts, according to one of the people briefed on the matter. While firms keep a cushion of their own money in client accounts to protect against market losses, they are not allowed to dip below that buffer to finance their own operations.  Another potential angle for regulators, who are authorized to pursue only civil actions, is to challenge MF Global’s disclosures in the months before it collapsed, one of the people said. Officials at the Securities and Exchange Commission are examining whether the firm adequately informed investors about the sizable bets that Mr. Corzine had placed on the fiscal solvency of five European nations. MF Global kept the transactions out of its public filings for several months until auditors prodded the firm to disclose the positions.  Civil cases typically have a lower bar than criminal ones. For instance, regulators at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the S.E.C. do not need to show that MF Global intended to raid client accounts to bring a suit. Federal prosecutors, however, would need to be able to show willful wrongdoing. While the subpoenas from the grand jury represent the seriousness of the case, they do not indicate wrongdoing or imminent charges. The grand jury determines whether charges can be brought. One potential obstacle is the limited access to employees at the center of the questionable transfers of customer money. Investigators are eager to interview Edith O’Brien, a treasury official in MF Global’s Chicago office. But Ms. O’Brien, who was told to oversee the transfer of money in and out of customer accounts, has refused to cooperate with authorities without immunity from prosecution. Regulators are focusing their attention on the Chicago operations of MF Global, where customer accounts were overseen. They have already spoken with Christy Vavra, another official in the treasury department at the firm, according to a person familiar with the matter. No one at MF Global, including Ms. O’Brien, Ms. Vavra or Mr. Corzine, a former Democratic governor of New Jersey, has been accused of wrongdoing. The CME Group, the exchange operator and profit-making regulator of MF Global and other commodities brokerage firms, disclosed in its annual report on Tuesday that it had received two subpoenas related to the defunct brokerage firm: one from a federal grand jury in Chicago and another from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the federal regulator heading up the investigation. The grand jury in Chicago issued the subpoena to CME on Nov. 1, the day after MF Global filed for bankruptcy. The subpoena from the futures commission came on Nov. 3. More recently, the trustee overseeing efforts to recover customer money sought documents from the CME Group, according to the filing, which did not detail the extent of the request. The trustee, James W. Giddens, sent the request on Jan. 31. The scope of the investigation, conducted by regulators as well as the Federal Bureau of Investigation, encompasses billions of dollars in wire transfers in the days before the firm’s downfall, dozens of witnesses, and tens of thousands of e-mails and documents. The CME Group, which also has not been accused of any wrongdoing, was simply asked “to produce information and witnesses in connection with the authorities’ investigation of the matter,” the exchange said in its annual report.  Terrence A. Duffy, the chairman of the CME Group, has said his firm is cooperating with the investigation. CME has been criticized for how it responded to the crisis at MF Global. Officials at CME, charged with oversight of MF Global’s operations, left the firm’s headquarters early on Oct. 28 as the situation was spiraling out of control and before receiving assurances that customer money was safe. MF Global filed for bankruptcy on Oct. 31. Mr. Giddens and regulators have since traced nearly all of the customer cash transfers in the weeks before MF Global collapsed. The money passed through a battery of financial players, including major banks, in addition to trading partners and exchanges. A spokeswoman for the CME Group declined to comment. Advertisement