Twelve partners at Dewey & LeBoeuf resigned late Friday, the latest in a wave of departures for the beleaguered law firm. The lawyers, who are leaving to join Willkie Farr & Gallagher, represent insurance companies in a variety of matters, from mergers and acquisitions to stock and bond offerings. Insurance law is a practice area for which Dewey is well known. New York-based Dewey has lost 31 of its 300 partners since January, including the 12 who left on Friday. The firm has gotten into financial difficulties after extending lucrative pay guarantees to its top producers. Many partners have had their compensation deferred or slashed after Dewey posted tepid financial results last year. The firm’s problems come at a challenging time for the legal industry, which has yet to recover from the steep economic downturn. And the cost of top legal talent has risen, with many large firms extending multimillion-dollar, multiyear guarantees to their biggest producers. Dewey is the product of a boom-era merger between two old-line New York law firms. In late 2007, Dewey Ballantine and LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae combined to fuel growth and expand internationally. As part of its growth strategy, the firm also poached star lawyers away from rivals with rich pay packages. Alexander M. Dye, Michael Groll and John M. Schwolsky lead the group of insurance partners leaving for Willkie. Mr. Dye heads Dewey’s mergers-and-acquisitions practice; Mr. Schwolsky is the co-chairman of the corporate finance group; and Mr. Groll is the co-chairman of the insurance-industry practice. “We have worked closely with this team in a number of transactions over the years,” Thomas M. Cerabino, the co-chairman of Willkie Farr, said in a statement Saturday. “They are among the most elite practitioners in their field and will add greatly to our capabilities in their areas of expertise.” In a firmwide memo sent out late Friday that was obtained by The New York Times, Dewey’s chairman, Steven H. Davis, expressed regret over the departures. But he emphasized that they would have an immaterial effect on the firm’s profitability. “We are disappointed to see these partners leave the firm — they have been long-term colleagues and successful practitioners in the insurance sector for many years,” Mr. Davis said. “I recognize the emotional impact that these departures will have on our partnership and colleagues.” “However, our initial assessment of these departures is that they will not have an adverse financial impact on the firm,” he added. Mr. Davis said that he expected the firm to lose about $22 million in revenues this year as a result of the group’s move. But the moves will also free up expenses of about $21 million — the departing partners were expected to earn about $15 million this year, plus an additional $6 million for junior lawyers and staff members connected to the group. The memo sought to assuage the lawyers at Dewey, which has about 1,100 lawyers across 25 offices globally. “I ask that you reassure your teams and colleagues that we, as a partnership, are committed to meeting and overcoming the challenges we face,” Mr. Davis said. “We have over 30 practice areas with many talented and highly regarded partners and attorneys and a great staff. It is up to us to assure the firm’s success for ourselves, our colleagues and our clients.” Advertisement