Richard E. Farley is a partner at Paul Hastings, specializing in leveraged finance deals. “Too big to fail is simply too big,” Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio is fond of repeating on the subject of banking regulation.  On May 9, Senator Brown, the chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Protection, introduced the SAFE Banking Act – short for the Safe, Accountable, Fair and Efficient Banking Act of 2012. The proposed rule would limit the size of banks and, the senator assures us, prevent another financial crisis and recapture the unfair subsidies given to large banks. It would end corporate welfare for Wall Street megabanks, Senator Brown proclaims.  As if on cue, the very next day, JPMorgan Chase, the best of the big American banks, announced a $2.3 billion trading loss related to a poorly conceived or executed risk management strategy. Immediately, the “shrink the banks” chorus broke into singing the praises of the SAFE Banking Act as the law to save us from JPMorgan’s bad bet and other bank menaces.  If the SAFE Banking Act becomes law, it would, at best, result in more banks “going on welfare” during the inevitable next banking crisis. At worst, we may see what a bank crisis looks like without the power of the full faith and credit of the United States at the regulators’ disposal. The SAFE Banking Act would impose three limits on the size of banks: no bank could have deposits representing greater than 10 percent of all insured bank deposits; no bank could have nondeposit liabilities in excess of 10 percent of all United States financial sector liabilities; and no bank could have nondeposit liabilities in excess of 2 percent of gross domestic product (3 percent, in the case of nonbank financial institutions).  These limits seek to reduce federal government exposure to banks that are “too big to fail” by making big banks small enough to safely fail. In the committee report in support of the proposed legislation, Senator Brown describes the safety net that covers the vast majority of liabilities in the American financial system: underpriced federal deposit insurance, access to the Federal Reserve’s discount window and the “implicit guarantee” of solvency given to the large banks under the “too big to fail” doctrine.  “Too big to fail” provides a taxpayer subsidy to the megabanks in the form of bolstered credit ratings that enable them to borrow more cheaply than smaller banks not benefiting from such a guarantee. Break up the big banks, goes the argument, and no bank will be too big to fail. A more even playing field for all banks would result, since none would be unfairly advantaged by lower borrowing costs from an implicit taxpayer-backed guarantee of solvency. But would we be better off if no bank were too big to fail? And what might happen if all the banks were too small to save? One thing we know for certain: banks will continue to make loans that will not be repaid, none of which, when initially made, were thought to be bad loans. Many of these bad loans will be discovered to be unsound at the same time across many banks. When the scale of loans going bad all at once is large enough, you will have a banking crisis.  During the Great Depression, the bad loans precipitating the banking crisis were largely loans to farmers that went bad as a result of the severe agricultural recession. During the savings and loan crisis, it was too much lending for commercial real estate, particularly in the oil regions of the United States, which were devastated after the collapse of crude prices in the mid-1980s. In the 2008 financial crisis, the culprit was subprime residential real estate lending. At the time of the Great Depression, bank deposits were dispersed among many thousands of small, mostly local community banks – the type immortalized by the Bailey Building and Loan Association in Frank Capra’s “It’s a Wonderful Life.” When the loans went bad, there were thousands of banks with at least enough bad loans to render them insolvent or close enough to insolvent that the banks’ depositors and other creditors were not going to wait around.  More than 9,000 banks failed during the Great Depression, over 600 in November and December of 1930 alone. During the S.&L. crisis, 1,800 banks failed. Yet during the much more severe 2008 financial crisis and its aftermath, fewer than 450 banks failed; only one, Washington Mutual, was a large bank.  What might it have been about the structure of the banking industry and the tools available to regulators in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis that limited the carnage to a relatively few banks that, in total, held a systemically insignificant percentage of banking assets and deposits? Certainly, deposit insurance limits bank runs, but most banks have many liabilities that are not insured deposits, many of which are short term and can be called overnight.  Without question, the “too big to fail” option, even if not implemented, prevents bank runs. And a manageable number of megabanks holding a high percentage of banking assets and deposits contribute to that viability. In 1970, the top five American banks had only 17 percent of all banking assets. Today, the top five banks have more than 50 percent of all banking assets, and the top 10 banks have nearly 80 percent. In his committee report, Senator Brown argues about the dangers of these big banks and the concentration of assets by invoking the words of others – including Sheila C. Bair, former chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; Thomas M. Hoenig, former president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City;  Richard W. Fisher, the Dallas Fed president; and, of course, the omnipresent Wall Street critic Paul Volcker. It is useful for the Senate to consider reasons this concentration might be at least beneficial, and to recognize that just restricting the size of banks is not the solution to averting the next banking crisis. Consider perhaps the most important meeting held at the height of the 2008 financial crisis. On Oct. 13, Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary at the time, summoned the chief executives of nine of the nation’s largest financial institutions to Washington.  The stated purpose of this well-publicized meeting was to coordinate the details of the Treasury’s rescue plan. The more important purpose was to convince the financial markets and depositors that federal regulators could, with a few phone calls, assemble in one room, overnight, the executives who controlled an enormous portion of the nation’s banking assets and fix their banks’ balance sheets (whether they needed fixing or not) and get them home before bedtime.  The effort worked. Confidence in the solvency and long-term viability of the banking system was restored. Could such an action have worked if 30, or 130, institutions needed to be summoned to represent a comparable portion of the nation’s banking assets? And wouldn’t that mean that the 30 or 130 institutions would have to be “on welfare” rather than the nine?  If next time there are a great many smaller banks with bad loans that no one believes will be saved, will they all fail? This seems to look more like the Great Depression model than the current “safety net” model that has served us well. And what if the executives of those 30, or 130, institutions are not of the caliber of the nine summoned by Mr. Paulson? Whatever their faults and shortcomings, the likes of Jamie Dimon, Lloyd Blankfein, Vikram Pandit and the rest possessed a competence and integrity during the crisis not demonstrated by many senior managers of smaller banks in prior crises.  Can we forget the appalling incompetence of Neil Bush, director of the defunct Silverado Savings and Loan, or the pornography-obsessed Charles Keating, president of the Lincoln Savings and Loan Association, who duped customers out of hundreds of million of dollars?  Any lawmaker who would have us look back fondly on the George Bailey days of small bank management should remember that it was absent-minded Uncle Billy, kept on the payroll with unabashed nepotism, who nearly collapsed the building and loan because of his inability to execute a simple deposit transaction. Before we jettison “too big to fail” by breaking up the megabanks, we need to take a careful look at the pitfalls of having banks be too small for us to care. 
Mr. Farley’s views do not necessarily reflect the views of Paul Hastings or its clients. Advertisement