The Empire State Building is headed to the stock market, with the owner of the skyscraper officially filing for an initial public offering on Monday. The move is the culmination of efforts by the company’s controlling Malkin family to simplify control of its sprawling real estate holdings. The offering will allow the Malkins to convert the equity held by other investors into stock in the new company, Empire State Realty Trust. The Malkins disclosed in November that their investment vehicle planned to file for an I.P.O. within several months.  The filing listed a fund-raising target of $1 billion, a provisional number used to determine filing fees. The company plans to create two classes of stock, selling A shares to the public. Its Class B stock will hold 50 votes a share. Through the offering, shareholders will be able to own a piece of 12 office buildings in New York and Connecticut that together comprise 7.7 million square feet of rentable office space. But the crown jewel of the portfolio is clearly the 102-story Empire State Building. The company disclosed in its prospectus that the skyscraper generated $156.7 million in revenue for the nine months ended Sept. 30. Overall, Empire State Realty earned $71 million in net income on a pro forma basis for the first nine months of 2011 on revenue of $382.2 million. The company will be led by Anthony E. Malkin, who will become its chairman and chief executive. Mr. Malkin and his father purchased the Empire State Building and the ground beneath it in 2002, and have since spent millions of dollars renovating the building. Their efforts, including restoring the Art Deco lobby and installing new windows, allowed for a doubling of rents. One of the company’s highlights, as disclosed in the prospectus, is making buildings more energy efficient. Empire State Realty points to its partnerships with the Clinton Climate Initiative, Jones Lang LaSalle and others in retrofitting the Empire State Building, which now claims to be a so-called green office space.  Among the tenants in the landmark building are LinkedIn, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the beauty products maker Coty. Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Goldman Sachs were listed as the lead underwriters for the offering. Advertisement