For years, the Carlyle Group had sought to follow its private equity rivals in stepping out as a publicly traded firm, a status that once promised wealth and prestige. On Thursday, the investment firm is getting its wish — but is doing so with a slight limp. Carlyle priced its initial public offering at $22 a stock unit on Wednesday evening — below its expected range of $23 to $25. That price will value the firm at about $6.7 billion when it begins trading Thursday on the Nasdaq stock market, under the ticker symbol “CG.“ Years in the making, Carlyle’s offering is still coming in at a relatively choppy time for alternative-investment firms. Volatile markets and an uncertain economic environment have crimped their ability to conduct the core business of striking deals. The Blackstone Group, one of Carlyle’s biggest rivals, reported a 24 percent drop in first-quarter earnings last month after its portfolio companies posted slower-than-expected growth. And while Kohlberg Kravis Roberts benefited from faster growth in its holdings, it suffered a steep drop in fees. Just last month, the Oaktree Capital Group priced its I.P.O. at $43, the bottom of the investment firm’s expected range. Oaktree’s stock tumbled in its first day of trading, and has stayed down, closing on Wednesday at $40.05. The public markets in general have been relatively difficult for private equity firms, despite an overall improvement in the I.P.O. market. An index of initial offering performance maintained by the research firm Renaissance Capital has returned 16.4 percent so far this year, compared with 11.8 percent by the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index. Yet Blackstone’s stock has fallen 5.4 percent this year. Apollo Global Management and K.K.R. have fared a little better, rising 1.9 percent and 5.8 percent. “Private equity firms are a little more challenging for the I.P.O. investor,“ said Kathy Smith, a principal at the research firm Renaissance Capital. “These are not only more cyclical companies, but also harder to understand.“ Portfolio companies that Carlyle has taken public have tended to fare better. About 36 percent of the 11 I.P.O.’s that the firm has held for its holdings since 2010 have priced above their expected ranges, according to data from Dealogic. That compares with just 25 percent of the 177 initial offerings in the United States during that time. And on average, they have tended to remain above their I.P.O. price until at least one year after their stock sales. People close to Carlyle argue that its executives remain upbeat about their own stock’s prospects. The firm closed its order book on Tuesday amid significant demand at a lowered $22 to $23 range, allowing the firm and its advisers to better shape its initial investor base. Carlyle’s top management acceded to the lower price, believing that, as with the firm’s portfolio companies, investors will pile in and drive the stock higher. Wednesday’s pricing followed weeks sprinting around the world by senior Carlyle executives pitching the offering to potential investors. At one point, the firm’s co-founders — David M. Rubenstein, William E. Conway and Daniel A. D’Aniello — broke off into separate teams to cover more than 200 meetings on four continents, according to people briefed on the matter. The message to investors was simple: Carlyle is one of the world’s biggest alternative investment firms, with nearly $147 billion in assets under management and 89 leveraged buyout, real estate and hedge fund vehicles. “By many measures, we are one of the largest and most diversified asset managers in the world,” Mr. D’Aniello, Carlyle’s chairman, said in a video presentation last month. “We’ve been a first mover, with teams on the ground in almost all the major emerging markets today.” Mr. Rubenstein was among the most active promoters. He began his portion of the road show in Asia, before traveling to the Middle East and then back to the United States. Carlyle’s offering was managed by a small army of underwriters, led by JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup and Credit Suisse. Advertisement