Coty has raised its bid for Avon Products to $10.7 billion, hoping to persuade the beleaguered cosmetics company to come to the negotiating table. In a letter to Avon’s board, which was disclosed Thursday morning, Coty said that it had raised its bid 6.5 percent, to $24.75 a share. At that level, the new takeover offer represents a 15 percent premium to Avon’s closing price on Wednesday. The offer, which is subject to due diligence, also comes with a specific deadline. Coty is demanding that Avon begin negotiations by Monday, or risk the offer expiring. “Given the challenges facing your business, we believe the premium is even higher when considering your potential stock price in the absence of a possible transaction,” Coty’s chairman, Bart Becht, wrote in the letter. Avon, which had spurned Coty’s previous offer as too low, said on Thursday that its board would consider the new bid “in due course.” In its letter, Coty also disclosed a major new member of the group providing equity financing for its bid: Berkshire Hathaway. The conglomerate run by Warren E. Buffett was probably brought in by BDT Capital Partners, the merchant bank that is advising Coty. BDT is run by Byron D. Trott, a former Goldman Sachs vice chairman who has long served as a favorite banker of Mr. Buffett.  Coty’s parent company, Joh. A. Benckiser, and other clients of BDT are also providing equity financing, while JPMorgan Chase is providing debt financing. When Coty, which is privately held,  first made its takeover public last month, it had sought to capitalize upon Avon’s troubles, including an ongoing investigation into allegations of bribery in several countries and a longstanding difficulty in raising its stock price. The two companies had held merger talks in the months before, with Avon buying Coty instead. After the negotiations appeared to stall, Coty flipped the roles and moved to buy its larger rival instead. So far, Avon shareholders seem to have brushed off the proposal, with share prices remaining well below Coty’s bid. Shares in Avon rose to $22.40 in premarket trading on Thursday, but remained below the new bid price. Advertisement