Elliott Management, apparently concerned that its calls for BMC Software to sell itself have not been heeded, has laid out its argument in a lengthy presentation. The hedge fund filed a 36-page PowerPoint presentation  with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Thursday, aimed at prodding BMC into considering a sale to a larger software company or a private equity firm. BMC has resisted Elliott’s entreaties. Earlier this month, the company instituted a shareholder rights plan, known as a poison pill, intended to prevent Elliott or other investors from seizing more control. In its presentation, Elliott argued that BMC had meaningfully trailed its competitors in the enterprise software industry, and had failed to capitalize on newer trends like software-as-a-service offerings and cloud computing. Elliott added that BMC’s leadership team had repeatedly failed to pull off successful mergers. While BMC has purchased 27 companies for a total of $2.4 billion, many of those deals carried unreasonably high premiums and failed to add meaningfully to revenue. And BMC’s shares have fallen 23 percent in the last year. The solution, according to Elliott, is to upend BMC’s board and bring on directors who would consider selling the company. Among the potential buyers are I.B.M., Oracle and CA Technologies, as well as technology-focused private equity firms. “BMC has significant strategic value with great assets that can be realized through exploring an opportunity to sell the company,” the hedge fund wrote. In a separate statement, Elliott said it had heard from other shareholders who agreed with its arguments and had also been frustrated by BMC’s board. “As detailed in our presentation, the board’s behavior is particularly disappointing given the company’s significant underperformance due to poor management execution and a lack of engaged board oversight,” Jesse Cohen, a portfolio manager at Elliott, said in the statement. “After studying these issues for several months and doing extensive research,” he added, “we have outlined in our presentation the changes needed to bring fresh insight to the board and the steps the company should take immediately to deliver long-overdue value to stockholders.”  
Elliott Management’s BMC Presentation Advertisement