Advertisement Supported by Political Economy By Hugo Dixon | Reuters The French always protect their national champions, while the British have a laissez-faire approach to foreign takeovers of their top companies, right? That is certainly the caricature. Witness how France deterred PepsiCo from bidding for Danone in 2005 on the grounds that yogurt was a strategic industry, while Britain allowed the United States-based Kraft to move ahead with its hostile takeover of Cadbury, the confectioner, in 2010. Recent events, though, show that the picture is more complex. When news first leaked that General Electric, the United States industrial giant, was negotiating to buy Alstom’s power generation business, the French government’s knee-jerk reaction was hostile. But by last week, Alstom had reached a deal to sell its power unit to G.E. for 11.4 billion euros, or $15.81 billion, and Paris had softened its opposition.  The main reason is that Alstom was determined to do the deal, because it considered its energy business too small to thrive on world markets and was worried about its debt load. Meanwhile, G.E. has softened the blow to Gallic pride by promising to maintain high levels of employment in France and to respect French control of its nuclear power business, which arguably is strategic.  Alstom has also agreed to let a board committee scrutinize the deal for a month. During that period, Germany’s Siemens may firm up its rival plans for taking over the French group’s power business, paying for it partly by giving Alstom its train unit. That plan might appeal more to Paris because it would create two European champions — one in energy and the other in trains. But, at present, it looks as if the G.E. option will win favor with Alstom, and market forces will prevail. Now look across the English Channel, where an even bigger deal is being concocted: Pfizer’s proposed $106 billion offer for its fellow pharmaceutical giant, AstraZeneca. The British government has not been as laissez-faire as one might have expected. Stung into action out of fear that Britain’s science base might be eroded, it negotiated a series of reassurances from the American-based Pfizer, including a promise that at least 20 percent of the combined group’s research staff would be based in Britain for the next five years unless circumstances changed. At first blush, it might look as if London is trying to defend a national champion. But on further examination, it looks as if Britain may have unintentionally made it easier for AstraZeneca to fall into foreign hands.  This is because Pfizer’s approach is a hostile one — unlike G.E.’s friendly approach to Alstom. Statements by various ministers welcoming the assurances they have wrung out of Pfizer have given the impression that the takeover has the government’s blessing. Some AstraZeneca directors are furious, saying the government intervened behind its back. Compare this with France, where Arnaud Montebourg, the minister of the economy, was angry because he said he had been kept in the dark about Alstom’s talks with G.E. The British government seems to have realized that it made an error, putting out a statement Friday that it was up to shareholders to decide whether to accept the proposal. So, at the end of the day, both AstraZeneca’s and Alstom’s futures are likely to be decided by market forces — which is as it should be.  This is not because the market is perfect. There are lots of cases of companies’ overpaying when they take over other businesses. There may also be examples of shareholders in target companies selling out too cheaply because they are do not appreciate the long-term value — although such cases are harder to come by. AstraZeneca could be one of these latter examples, given that it has some cancer treatments in its pipeline that could become blockbusters. Its job now is to convince its shareholders that its independent future is really valuable. But if the British group does fall to Pfizer, that should be the end of the matter. That is partly because, although markets are imperfect, governments are even worse at picking winners. Protected industries tend to become inefficient. What about Britain’s science base? Wouldn’t that be damaged if Pfizer slashed research spending? Not necessarily. In such a scenario, the scientists would be free to work elsewhere or even start their own biotech companies. The main role for governments in these situations is to help foster entrepreneurship and encourage investment. There are, of course, exceptions to the rule — when the target company is genuinely strategic and the predator may not have the country’s interests at heart. But except in extreme cases, governments should stay neutral, neither erecting barriers to protect their champions nor selling them down the river.  Hugo Dixon is editor at large of Reuters News.  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS