Advertisement Supported by By Clifford Krauss The powerful Washington law firm Patton Boggs dropped out of an effort to force Chevron to pay a $9.5 billion Ecuadorean pollution judgment on Wednesday, expressing regrets for its involvement in the case and agreeing to pay the oil company $15 million in settlement payments. The settlement came as another major victory for Chevron in a case that has been a headache for the company for more than two decades. Patton Boggs had served as a leading firm in a global effort to enforce the 2011 Ecuadorean judgment against Chevron in Argentina, Brazil, Canada and potentially in other countries where Chevron has assets. Chevron has long asserted that Patton Boggs was involved in a vast fraud and cover-up that led to the Ecuadorean judgment that Chevron was responsible for and needs to clean up pollution that Texaco caused in the Amazon jungle in the 1970s and 1980s. Chevron bought Texaco in the early 1990s. Patton Boggs’s surrender should help Chevron in its efforts to block enforcement in foreign courts. In March, a United States District Court judge in Manhattan ruled that the legal effort against Chevron led by Steven R. Donziger, a New York lawyer, was marred by fraud and corruption. The judge found that Mr. Donziger and his associates orchestrated the ghostwriting of a crucial environmental report by a supposedly independent expert to a provincial Ecuadorean court deciding the case, and even participated in bribing the deciding judge. The judge in New York, Lewis A. Kaplan, barred Mr. Donziger and his associates from profiting from the case. Mr. Donziger is appealing the decision, which is not legally binding in foreign courts. Judge Kaplan also dismissed Patton Boggs’s claims against Chevron that it exhibited bad faith in responding to the firm’s efforts to enforce the Ecuadorean judgment. That decision advanced the prospects of the oil company’s lawsuit against Patton Boggs over participation in the fraud. In Wednesday’s settlement between Patton Boggs and Chevron, the law firm said in a statement that it would not have been involved in the case had it known what was revealed in the federal court case. “Based on the court’s findings, Patton Boggs regrets its involvement in this matter,” the firm said. Chevron declared a complete victory. In a statement, R. Hewitt Pate, a company vice president and general counsel, said, “We are pleased that Patton Boggs is ending its association with the fraudulent and extortionate Ecuador litigation scheme.” He called on others involved in the case to follow suit. In the agreement, Patton Boggs agreed to assign to Chevron all rights and claims to any future payments received by the firm in the case and to remove itself as a representative in any future proceedings. The firm had a 5 percent stake in any future judgments against Chevron, potentially worth hundreds of millions of dollars. Perhaps most significantly, the firm also agreed to allow Chevron’s lawyers to take depositions from Patton Boggs’s lawyers. This would include James E. Tyrrell Jr., a partner who worked closely with Mr. Donziger on the strategy for the legal effort and its financing. Mr. Tyrrell and others at the firm might further verify the March findings of Judge Kaplan, which Chevron could present as evidence of fraud in foreign courts. Mr. Donziger and Ecuadorean villagers he represents condemned the settlement, claiming in a statement that the firm had “prejudiced its former clients in violation of its ethical obligations.” Chevron has repeatedly succeeded in peeling off former allies of Mr. Donziger who have corroborated Chevron’s claims of witness-tampering and other fraud, including several former scientific consultants and financiers. “It’s another notch on Chevron’s belt and seems to reward their take-no-prisoners approach to this litigation,” said Ralph G. Steinhardt, a George Washington University law professor who has followed the case and who worked for Patton Boggs in the 1980s. “It’s public knowledge that Patton Boggs has been looking to merge with another law firm, so it would be perfectly rational for partners in both firms to make this controversial liability go away,” he said. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS