7:52 p.m. | Updated  Despite reporting better-than-expected profits Wednesday, Bank of America continues to have a money pit in its home-loan market. The bank, the nation’s second-largest by assets after JPMorgan Chase, said on Wednesday that it earned $2.5 billion, or 19 cents a share, compared with analysts’ projections of 14 cents for the quarter, as its expenses dropped and credit conditions improved. The housing woes of the last few years are still taking a toll on the bank, however. Investors are increasing their demands that Bank of America repurchase soured mortgages, arguing the mortgages were improperly underwritten and sold in the first place.  These so-called put-back claims totaled $22.7 billion in the second quarter of 2012, up from $16.1 billion in the first quarter. Chris Kotowski, an analyst at Oppenheimer, noted that the $22.7 billion figure was more than double the total of such claims in the second quarter of 2011, when they stood at $9.9 billion. “It’s not just that it’s going up, it’s going up at an accelerated rate,” Mr. Kotowski said. “It’s hard to know what the ultimate cost will be.” Those concerns help explain why Bank of America’s stock sank nearly 5 percent to $7.53 a share on Wednesday, even though profits were better than expected. The bank also reported some weakness in its revenue. For the second quarter, Bank of America’s revenue totaled $22.2 billion, slightly less than expected and below the level in the first quarter of this year. The result was a sign of the pressures big banks face in expanding their business in a weak economy and with tighter regulations. But Bank of America was able to offset those challenges with savings elsewhere. And the latest figures stand in sharp contrast to Bank of America’s results in the period a year earlier, when huge mortgage-related charges contributed to a loss of $8.8 billion, or 90 cents a share. The bulk of the losses from soured mortgages comes from Bank of America’s disastrous acquisition of Countrywide Financial, a leading subprime lender, in 2008. Bank of America officials say the mortgage defaults stem largely from economic weakness, not failures in terms of how the mortgages were underwritten or packaged and sold to investors. Bank of America officials add that the bank has nearly $16 billion set aside to cover put-back claims, and also note that the $22 billion figure reflects the total value of the mortgages, not what the bank is likely to have to pay out to investors. The bank also said that the number of mortgages more than 60 days late declined in the second quarter, a sign of healthier conditions for borrowers. Overall credit losses in the second quarter dropped to $1.7 billion from $3.25 billion in the period a year earlier, reflecting what the company said were improving credit conditions for businesses and consumers as well as tighter lending standards. In addition, the bank raised its projected cost-cutting targets under its “New BAC” restructuring initiative, predicting an additional $3 billion in savings by mid-2015. Bank of America is in the midst of cutting more than 30,000 workers as the initiative goes into effect. As of June 30, its head count was down 3,228, to 275,460. The bank has 12,600 fewer employees than it did a year ago. Bank of America’s results were more straightforward than in recent quarters, when one-time gains and losses made it difficult to gauge the bank’s underlying performance. Also on a positive note, the bank managed to strengthen its balance sheet, which had been a worry of investors last year, when its stock briefly fell below $5 a share. The company says its Tier 1 capital ratio under the Basel III agreements now stands at 8.1 percent, putting it ahead of the company’s earlier goal of 7.5 percent by the end of 2012. Strengthening the bank’s underlying capital position while slimming down and cutting costs have been prime goals for the chief executive, Brian Moynihan. “We’re starting to see results from the New BAC program,” Mr. Moynihan said during a call with analysts on Wednesday. “We continue to have work to do.” Profit was also bolstered by so-called reserve releases, when the bank reverses earlier charges for possible credit losses and adds the savings to the bottom line. In this case, of the $2.5 billion profit in the second quarter, $1.9 billion came from reserve releases. While it was solidly profitable, the company’s global markets unit, which includes much of Bank of America Merrill Lynch, had a drop in revenue and profit from the first quarter and the same period a year ago. The company attributed the slowdown to the economic problems shaking the euro zone, and the anemic economic environment. The global markets unit earned $462 million, down from $911 million in the second quarter of 2011. “What was driving earnings were reduced credit losses and lowered expenses but revenue growth remains exceptionally weak,” said Shannon Stemm, a banking analyst at Edward Jones & Company. Ms. Stemm said she was also concerned about rising put-back claims. Government-controlled mortgage giants like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac want the company to buy back $11 billion in bad mortgages, up from $8.1 billion in the first quarter. Private investors are seeking $8.6 billion in put-backs, up from $4.9 billion. Insurers are demanding an additional $3.1 billion. Advertisement