In the wake of JPMorgan Chase disclosing a multimillion-dollar loss in a London unit, financial regulators are weighing broad new oversight of overseas trading.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission is circulating a preliminary proposal to apply new rules not only to banks in the United States, but also American banks that have foreign units. The proposal, part of a wider effort to rein in the sort of derivatives trading that prompted the huge losses at JPMorgan Chase, would also apply to foreign banks that conduct significant derivatives trading in the United States.  Gary Gensler, the agency’s chairman, took the rare step on Monday to give the public a peak at the proposal, outlining the purpose and scope at a conference in Washington. While the plan is consistent with Mr. Gensler’s longstanding plans to impose new derivatives rules abroad, his renewed focus reflects the stronger hand regulators hold in the aftermath of the JPMorgan debacle.  “I think that the events of the last two weeks are a stark reminder of what we knew in the 2008 crisis,” Mr. Gensler said in an interview. “The risk can come crashing back here pretty quickly.” The cross-border proposal is a crucial part of the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law, the government’s main regulatory response to the financial crisis. Many big banks like JPMorgan run their derivatives businesses out of foreign branches.  The agency’s commissioners will soon receive an initial draft of the proposal, which is subject to change. In the interview on Monday, Mr. Gensler said that he hoped to formally propose the rule in June, at which point it will be open for public comment.   JPMorgan’s trading blunder has provided a new round of ammunition for proponents of strict Wall Street oversight. Much attention has focused on the so-called Volcker Rule, which prohibits banks from trading with their own money, a policy to prevent blowups that prompt bailouts. Derivatives rules are also in the mix. The Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law mandated a crackdown on the derivatives business, a central player in the financial crisis.  Wall Street has pushed back hard, as an army of lobbyists have urged Mr. Gensler’s agency to exempt overseas derivatives trading. The agency’s authority is limited abroad, Wall Street argues. That argument has gained some traction on Capitol Hill, where lawmakers are advancing a bill that, if enacted, would exempt foreign subsidiaries from some derivatives rules.  But JPMorgan’s suspect trades, many of which were executed from London, have derailed some of the lobbying efforts. A Congressional committee recently delayed a vote on the new bill, citing the JPMorgan losses. The trades were tied to credit default swaps, a common type of derivative contract that provides insurance on corporate bonds and other debt.  “It appears that the bank here in the U.S. is absorbing these losses,” Mr. Gensler said in a speech in Washington on Monday.  “And as a U.S. bank, it is an entity with direct access to the Federal Reserve’s discount window and federal deposit insurance.” Mr. Gensler invoked other recent derivatives blowups that occurred overseas. The American International Group, an American insurance company that booked its risky derivatives deals out of London, would have collapsed if not for a major government bailout. Under the proposal that Mr. Gensler outlined on Monday, foreign banks involved in more than a “de minimis level” of derivatives business in the United States will become so-called swap dealers. The swap dealer status comes with enhanced capital requirements and other oversight measures.  Wall Street firms that have derivatives units overseas will also come under the new regime, Mr. Gensler said, because “in the midst of a default or a crisis, there is no satisfactory way to really separate the risk of a bank and its branches.” Advertisement