Warren E. Buffett disclosed on Tuesday that he had prostate cancer, a development that would probably heighten the questions over his successor as the chief executive of his conglomerate, Berkshire Hathaway. Yet Mr. Buffett, who will turn 82 this summer, also made clear that he would continue to run the company, writing to shareholders that the disease was in Stage 1 and that he had been told by doctors that it was “not remotely life-threatening or even debilitating in any meaningful way.” A diagnosis of Stage 1 prostate cancer means the disease has been detected very early and it has not spread beyond the walnut-size prostate gland. According to data from the National Cancer Institute, the 10-year survival rate for men with localized disease is 99.5 percent.  The disclosure of the diagnosis was made just three weeks before Berkshire’s annual meeting, when thousands of shareholders descend upon Omaha, Mr. Buffett’s hometown, and for two days celebrate him as an investing giant. On Tuesday, the news did not appear to worry analysts and investors. “Go to any actuarial table; a healthy, stress-free 81-year-old has a 12-year life expectancy, and I’ll take the over on that,” said Whitney Tilson, the managing partner at T2 Partners and a Berkshire shareholder. Still, Mr. Buffett’s letter was a reminder that he would eventually hand over the reins of Berkshire, a sprawling empire of insurers, a railroad operator and scores of other companies. Over Mr. Buffett’s nearly 50-year tenure as chief executive, Berkshire has grown into one of America’s largest corporations, with a market value of nearly $201 billion. With operations that touch nearly aspect of the nation’s economy, it is sometimes considered a proxy for the business health of the United States. And the company’s success has made Mr. Buffett one of the world’s richest men and a spokesman for American capitalism. The Obama administration has even called its plan to raise tax rates on people with incomes above $1 million the “Buffett Rule.” (The measure was blocked in the Senate on Monday.) Succession at Berkshire has long been a topic of fierce speculation on Wall Street, even as some elements of Mr. Buffett’s plan have already been disclosed. His son Howard will become nonexecutive chairman of Berkshire, and two former hedge fund managers have been hired to eventually take over the company’s vast investment portfolios. In February, Mr. Buffett told investors that he had selected a successor for chief executive, but he did not name the person. The leading candidates are thought to be three of the company’s top lieutenants: Ajit Jain, the head of Berkshire’s vast reinsurance operations; Matthew Rose, chief of Burlington Northern Santa Fe; and Tad Montross, the leader of the General Re insurance subsidiary. “The risk is not so much who takes over for Buffett,” said Meyer Shields, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus. “It’s the fact that whoever takes over won’t be Warren Buffett. It will be a step down in perception and in reality.” He told CNBC on Tuesday that he had not yet notified his chosen successor. In Tuesday’s letter, Mr. Buffett wrote that the diagnosis came on April 11 and that he had undergone several tests. Those tests are not expected to change his routine much. “I feel great — as if I were in my normal excellent health — and my energy level is 100 percent,” he wrote. A spokeswoman for Mr. Buffett declined to comment beyond the letter. Stage 1 prostate cancer is typically found as a result of a prostate specific antigen, or P.S.A., blood test that leads to a needle biopsy. The United States Preventive Services Task Force recommends against P.S.A. screening for men over 75, because even if cancer is detected during screening, its slow nature means the disease is unlikely to kill him and he will die of other causes. Berkshire’s class A shares fell 1.8 percent in after-hours trading on Tuesday, to $119,100. Berkshire of late has not maintained its longtime streak of outperforming the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index. Mr. Shields of Stifel Nicolaus pointed to both the question of succession and concern that the profitability of Berkshire’s insurance operations had slowed down. Tara Parker-Pope, Azam Ahmed and Evelyn M. Rusli contributed reporting.
 Advertisement