5:01 p.m. | Updated with announcement Raymond James Financial said on Wednesday that it had agreed to buy Morgan Keegan for $930 million in cash, creating one of the biggest regional brokerage firms in the country and ending a drawn-out sales process. Morgan Keegan will also pay an additional $250 million dividend to its current owner, the Regions Financial Corporation, before the proposed deal closes, pending regulatory approval. With the sale, Regions will raise nearly $1.2 billion that the embattled bank can use to help pay down the $3.5 billion it received from the government during the financial crisis of 2008. Regions remains the only major lender that has not paid back its lifeline. Still, the deal would deliver far less than the roughly $1.5 billion Regions had initially expected. The sale puts Morgan Keegan’s book value at about $700 million. Regions bought the brokerage firm in 2000 for about $789 million. Raymond James will acquire a well-regarded brokerage firm and investment banking business that will bolster its own operations. The crown jewel of Morgan Keegan, based in Memphis, is its corps of about 1,200 financial advisers, which Raymond James hopes to combine with its own 5,400 advisers to create a big new regional brokerage firm. Paul C. Reilly, the Raymond James chief executive, told DealBook in an interview that his firm generally shied away from big-ticket acquisitions. But the chance to buy a business like Morgan Keegan, whose corporate culture matched that of Raymond James, was too good to pass up. “We’ll be the same conservative, client-first organization, but we’re going to have critical mass,” he said. “This enables us to have scale, to have market reach, but still have the feel of a family firm.” Morgan Keegan’s chief executive, John C. Carson Jr., will join Raymond James as president and oversee the combined firm’s fixed-income and public finance divisions. The deal is expected to close by the end of the first quarter. Raymond James emerged as the front-runner to buy Morgan Keegan in recent weeks, after a period of exclusive talks expired with another potential buyer, Stifel Financial. Though Stifel initially bid more than Raymond James, other details complicated negotiations, and by last month Regions Financial’s interest in pursuing a deal with Stifel had cooled, one of the people briefed on the matter said. Private equity firms had emerged as potential buyers early in the auction process, and analysts had expected that a leveraged buyout would be the most likely outcome for Morgan Keegan. But their offers were largely discounted as Stifel and Raymond James emerged as serious bidders.  Mr. Reilly said the acquisition would not strain Raymond James’s financial resources, though it planned eventually to sell stock and raise debt to help pay for the acquisition. One risk in a sale of Morgan Keegan to another brokerage firm is the potential defection of brokers unhappy with the deal, which could immediately lower the value of the business. Mr. Reilly said Raymond James planned to make retention offers to many of Morgan Keegan’s financial advisers. Raymond James was advised by JPMorgan Chase and the law firm Morrison & Foerster. Regions was advised by Goldman Sachs and the law firm Sullivan & Cromwell. Advertisement