Vulcan Materials is not going to sell itself to its rival, Martin Marietta Materials. without a fight. Vulcan accused its unwanted pursuer in a filing in a New Jersey state court of “covertly plotting a hostile bid,” one that Martin Marietta made public last week with its $4.8 billion takeover offer. Vulcan has called the bid too low. The move, responding to a lawsuit that Martin Marietta filed, indicates that the battle between the country’s two biggest makers of crushed gravel and rock is likely to get ugly.  Vulcan has not officially rejected the offer, in which Martin Marietta has offered to pay half of a share of its stock for each Vulcan share. But Vulcan’s court filing, which seeks to dismiss Martin Marietta’s case, makes it clear how the company views the situation.  Lawyers for Vulcan wrote in the filing that Martin Marietta had many obstacles to overcome for its hostile offer to succeed, including regulatory clearance. Moreover, as the Deal Professor has detailed, because Vulcan is based in New Jersey, it has several legal defenses that make victory extremely difficult for an unwanted bidder without its target’s cooperation.  Vulcan said in its filing that there was little chance of that happening. “The offer is conditioned on the approval of Vulcan’s board of directors — another condition that has no likelihood of being satisfied any time in the foreseeable future, if ever,” lawyers for the company wrote. Instead, Vulcan argues that Martin Marietta chose to strike at an opportune time — the holidays — to generate maximum negotiating leverage, even though the two companies had been in talks for a year and a half. While Martin Marietta argues in its lawsuit that time is of the essence in expediting its case, Vulcan contends, “There is no fire here — but to the extent there is one, Martin Marietta set it.” In a letter to Vulcan’s board sent on Saturday, Martin Marietta’s chief executive, C. Howard Nye, responded that the filing mischaracterized his company’s position and reiterated that he would prefer a friendly deal.  But Mr. Nye also indicated that he was not going away either, writing, “We are not dissuaded by what may be intemperate rhetoric of litigation.” It is unclear that either side can win the war through legal skirmishes. Indeed, Martin Marietta Materials is betting that Vulcan shareholders, many of whom also own Martin Marietta stock, will respond positively to the proposal. Shares in Vulcan Materials have risen 15.6 percent since the offer was announced on Dec. 12. But at $38.78 they remain above the $37.22 level set by Martin Marietta’s bid, suggesting that investors think a higher bid is necessary.
 
Vulcan Materials Response to Martin Marietta Materials in N.J.(function() { var scribd = document.createElement("script"); scribd.type = "text/javascript"; scribd.async = true; scribd.src = "//www.scribd.com/javascripts/embed_code/inject.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(scribd, s); })(); Advertisement