StartThe adventure of new ventures. The adventure of new ventures. Most new things don’t actually make the news. Enter Launch.it: an online, consumer-facing public relations platform that allows entrepreneurs to post their own announcements. Founded by Pinterest’s first investor and his son, the service aims to showcase a broad spectrum of fresh products, ideas and companies, including those too small to register with mass media. Launch.it is free to use and reader-curated, with no editorial filter. In the style of Reddit, it gives the most prominent placement to stories that attract the most interest. Employees: So far, the co-founders have made one permanent hire – a vice president of operations – and are working with a handful of contract developers.  Location: New York City. Co-Founders: Launch.it is the brainchild of Brian Cohen, chairman of the New York Angels, and his 24-year-old son, Trace. (By parental mandate, offspring in the Cohen family are expected to start their first companies no later than age 26. Trace Cohen, who was named after a supercomputer, founded his first company, BrandYourself.com, at age 18 in his Syracuse University dorm room.) Pitch: “It’s a publication where public relations professionals and companies can write their own stories,” explained Trace. “Our goal and vision is to create the largest searchable database for all new things: products, services and ideas.” Traction: The public beta version of Launch.it was unveiled May 9 at NY Tech Meetup. Since then, it’s attracted between 5,000 and 10,000 visitors and a few hundred registered users, according to the Cohens. The company’s advisers include Michael Terpin, who started the press release distribution hub Marketwire, and Peter Shankman, the founder of Help a Reporter Out, a service for connecting journalists with potential sources. The Cohens are now using the technology they’ve developed to build event-specific Web pages for conferences and trade shows. White-label versions of Launch.it will allow exhibitors to post their own stories. The first site, for CE Week, is already live; pages for Small Business Expo and Social Media Week are in the works. Revenue: None yet. The Cohens have two strategies for making money. The first is selling data. Companies that disseminate their stories on Launch.it can pay for information about their readers, including demographic data and viewing patterns. The second strategy involves the white-labeled versions of Launch.it that they are creating for conferences and trade shows. The Cohens plan to provide these Web sites for free, but they will charge conference exhibitors a fee for posting their stories, then split the proceeds with conference organizers. Financing: No outside money. So far, the Cohens said, they have bootstrapped Launch.it with more than $100,000 in seed capital. Marketing: Word of Internet. When companies post announcements to Launch.it and promote them through Facebook, Twitter and other social media, they’ll be publicizing their own stories while simultaneously spreading the word about Launch.it. The Cohens hope that the white-label pages will also spur interest in Launch.it’s main site. And they’re planning a fall publicity campaign called “I Heart New.” Riffing on the traditional “I Heart New York” logo, it will pose a corporate challenge: Can New York City post more “launch” stories than the business communities in Boston, Silicon Valley and San Francisco? Competition: The Cohens believe their biggest rivals will be press release distribution services including PR Newswire, Business Wire, PRWeb and Marketwire. (Though this hasn’t stopped Launch.it from patronizing the competition.) “We’re definitely going to hurt them,” Trace Cohen said. “We’re doing what they would love to do, for free. Their business model relies on the media. We go direct to the consumer.” The Launch.it platform, he continued, gives businesses consumer data, showing them who their readers are, while providing layers of interactivity the wires don’t have. For example, stories about new products include “buy it” links, and stories about young, capital-hungry companies feature an “invest in it” link for prospective investors. Challenge: Scaling up fast enough to fulfill an ambitious slogan: “If it’s new, it’s here first.” Launch.it faces a start-up paradox. For readers, it promises a comprehensive index of all things new. But to hit that level of breadth and authority, Launch.it must fill up quickly with a constantly renewing stream of stories from the business community and other unpaid, publicity-seeking writers who seem unlikely to bother with the site unless they think large numbers of readers are already going there. Readers also have to show up and participate in order for the Reddit-style curation system to work. Trace Cohen believes Launch.it can overcome what he acknowledged is a “chicken-and-egg” problem. The conference exhibitors, entrepreneurs and P.R. professionals who post their stories in the coming months will offer a strong foundation of fresh content, he said, and the readers will follow. What do you think? Will Launch.it win enough readers to work? Would you want to post stories about your own company there? You can follow Jessica Bruder on Twitter. You're the Boss offers an insider's perspective on small-business ownership. It gives business owners a place where they can compare notes, ask questions, get advice, and learn from one another's mistakes. The blog also offers analysis of policy issues, and suggests investing tips.
 The final You're the Boss post was published on Dec. 23. Advertisement