6:52 a.m. | Updated ABB of Switzerland agreed on Monday to buy Thomas & Betts, an American maker of electrical connectors, for about $3.9 billion in cash. The deal was first reported on DealBook on Sunday. Under the terms of the deal, ABB will pay Thomas & Betts shareholders $72 a share in cash, 24 percent above the company’s closing price on Friday. The transaction is expected to close by the end of the second quarter. Shares of Thomas & Betts closed on Friday at $57.95, giving it a market value of about $3 billion. The shares have risen 22.6 percent in the last 12 months. The takeover of Thomas & Betts is one of the largest friendly transactions announced this year. Bankers and lawyers work to seize upon what they say are improving conditions for deal-making after what they described as a disappointing environment for mergers in 2011, hurt by the European fiscal crisis. Among the largest deals announced in 2012 are a Japanese consortium’s $7.3 billion purchase of the Royal Bank of Scotland‘s aircraft leasing unit and Eastman Chemical‘s $3.4 billion takeover of a fellow chemical maker, Solutia. ABB, one of Switzerland’s biggest industrial companies, has made little secret of its desire to grow through “bolt-on” acquisitions that supplement existing businesses. Joseph M. Hogan, the company’s American chief executive and a former General Electric executive, has said that one of ABB’s growth areas would likely be in the United States, which he described in 2010 as on the verge of “reindustrializing.”  Such a strategy would also give ABB a hedge against prolonged weak demand in Europe. The company’s last major deal was in November 2010, when it purchased another American company, Baldor Electric, for about $3.1 billion. In Thomas & Betts, ABB will acquire a big maker of industrial electrical components. Thomas & Betts was founded in 1898 and grew as the use of electricity spread across the country. Among its customers are power utilities and construction companies. The company, which is scheduled to report fourth-quarter earnings on Monday, earned $145.6 million in profit for 2010 on revenue of $2 billion. Analysts at Barclays Capital wrote in a research report on Sunday that the deal made sense for Thomas & Betts, given that the company lacked a clear succession plan for its current chief executive, Dominic J. Pileggi. It also appears to coincide with improving economic conditions in the United States. “The timing for any such transaction is near perfect into what looks like the beginnings of strong upturns in U.S. utility and construction markets,” the analysts wrote. The company, based in Memphis, has 8,750 employees. News of the talks was first reported by The Wall Street Journal online. Bank of America Merrill Lynch and the law firm Kirkland & Ellis advised ABB on the deal. Deutsche Bank and the law firm Davis Polk & Wardwell advised to Thomas & Betts. Advertisement