Advertisement Supported by By Jonathan Mahler William Lewis, who has served as acting chief executive of News Corporation’s Dow Jones division since January, has been named its permanent chief, the company announced on Thursday.  Mr. Lewis is a longtime News Corporation insider who helped oversee its response to a British investigation into the News of the World phone hacking scandal in 2011. He succeeds Les Fenwick, who resigned after two years following what was seen as a failed attempt to consolidate several disparate Dow Jones products into a single consumer offering. The news of Mr. Lewis’s hiring came as News Corporation announced better-than-expected earnings for its fiscal third quarter. The company, which is controlled by the billionaire Rupert Murdoch, reported adjusted earnings of 11 cents a share, handily beating Wall Street analysts’ consensus estimates of 3 cents a share. The company was helped by the surprisingly strong performance of its publishing house, HarperCollins. In particular, the publisher benefited from the popularity of the best-selling young-adult series “Divergent,” which was recently released as a movie. Since being spun off from Mr. Murdoch’s more profitable film and television businesses last year, News Corporation has made clear its intention to invest more heavily in publishing, an effort to decrease its financial dependence on its struggling news business.  Last week, it announced that it had entered an agreement to buy the romance publisher Harlequin for about $415 million. Despite gains in its publishing division, News Corporation’s overall revenues declined modestly for the quarter, to $2.08 billion from $2.18 billion. The falloff was mostly related to the performance of the company’s news and information services division, especially in Australia, where many of its newspapers are based.  “Australia clearly remains a challenge,” Robert Thomson, the company’s chief executive, said in a conference call with investors, adding later in a response to a question that he thought there would be a “reconsideration of the value of print in the next year or so.” Third-quarter net income fell to $48 million this year from $323 million a year ago, but last year’s quarter benefited from a big gain from the sale of News Corporation’s stake in Sky Network Television, a New Zealand pay-television operator. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS