Just over three weeks ago, Hillshire Brands was focusing on shoring up support for its planned takeover of Pinnacle Foods despite vocal shareholder opposition. But that all changed two weeks ago when Hillshire, the longtime maker of Jimmy Dean sausages and Ball Park hot dogs, found itself the target of a bidding war between two of the country’s big meat producers. The company and its advisers devised an auction meant to put a swift end to the contest between its suitors, Tyson Foods and Pilgrim’s Pride, while trying to drum up the highest possible price. By Sunday night, Tyson emerged the high bidder with a $7.7 billion offer. That richly valued proposal — worth $63 a share, 71 percent higher than where Hillshire’s stock was trading before it became a takeover target — was a surprising turn of events for the food company. Once part of Sara Lee before that corporation’s breakup in 2011, it tried to grow on its own. Buying Pinnacle, the maker of Vlasic Pickles and Birds Eye frozen vegetables, for $4.3 billion was meant to be a major step toward gaining scale. Now, Hillshire investors find themselves contemplating both the demise of the Pinnacle offer and a lucrative sales offer. And shareholders in Tyson are left wondering whether their company overpaid. The brief but frenzied bidding for Hillshire highlights the hunger for consolidation within the food industry, as producers seek growth. Both Tyson and Pilgrim’s Pride viewed buying well-known brands like Jimmy Dean, which carry higher margins than commodity meats, as a way to reach that goal. “Good brands like Hillshire and Ball Park and Jimmy Dean just don’t come around very often,” Donnie Smith, Tyson’s chief executive, told reporters in a conference call on Monday. “We made an acquisition that gives us the opportunity to increase shareholder value over time. The contest also highlights the growing confidence of would-be buyers, who have been emboldened by a rising stock market and improving economic conditions. Bidding wars this year have produced deals worth about $147 billion, the highest level since the height of the deal boom in 2007, according to data from Thomson Reuters. The Pinnacle takeover plan blindsided both Pilgrim’s Pride and Tyson, and both companies scrambled to find a way to stop it, according to people briefed on the deal process. While Hillshire could not unilaterally call off its bid, it could entertain takeover offers for itself. Pilgrim’s Pride moved first, bidding $45 a share on May 27. Tyson responded two days later with a $50-a-share offer. Pilgrim’s Pride hit back last Monday with a $55-a-share bid. Each was hoping to land a knockout blow, avoiding a protracted takeover battle. Hillshire also wanted a swift resolution. Taking advantage of two eager bidders, the company’s advisers at Centerview Partners and Goldman Sachs devised an unusual auction structure with what one person called “a very, very fast timeline”: Pilgrim’s Pride and Tyson were each to have submitted offers Sunday afternoon. But the winning bid had to be at least $2.50 a share higher than the other bid. If not, the two bidders would have had to continue to submit offers until that requirement was met, with the necessary margin of victory to shrink over time. The goal was to get each to put its best offer on the table as quickly as possible, with the process hopefully wrapping up within hours. In the end, the auction was faster than that. Tyson raised its offer to $63 a share. Pilgrim’s Pride stayed firm at $55 a share — meaning that Tyson could have won with a bid of $57.50 a share. Advisers notified both suitors on Sunday night. And by Monday morning Pilgrim’s Pride had withdrawn its offer. That morning, Mr. Smith of Tyson defended his bid as fairly valued. A combination of the two could yield $300 million in cost savings, he said, while his company could help Hillshire expand its brands. At the same time, Tyson had prepared its balance sheet for potential acquisitions. It reported having $440 million in cash and short-term investments as of March 30. When asked on the reporter call if he could look shareholders in the eye and tell them he got a fair price, Mr. Smith said, “Absolutely.” Investors appeared less sure. Shares in Tyson tumbled 6.5 percent on Monday, to $37.50. Shares in Pilgrim’s Pride fell 6.7 percent, to $24.51, but about three-quarters of the company is owned by the Brazilian meatpacking giant JBS and not publicly traded. JBS itself saw its shares rise 7 percent. Hillshire shares rose 5.3 percent, to $62.06. Both Tyson and Hillshire made clear on Monday that they had not reached an agreement, with Hillshire specifically saying that its board had not altered its recommendation that shareholders support the Pinnacle transaction. But Hillshire is expected to end that deal soon, paying a $163 million breakup fee. A version of this article appears in print on 06/10/2014, on page B7 of the NewYork edition with the headline: After a Short, Furious Battle, a Rich Offer for Hillshire. Advertisement