For decades, Carl C. Icahn has enjoyed the spotlight. By rattling corporate boards, mounting takeover efforts and loudly jostling for change at companies, he has built a multibillion-dollar fortune, inspiring fear among chief executives and admiration among his fellow investors in the process. Now as Mr. Icahn, 78, enters the final act of his storied career, the spotlight has become uncomfortable. The revelation that Mr. Icahn has become a focus of an insider trading investigation into trades made by the golfer Phil Mickelson and a prominent Las Vegas gambler threatens to leave a mark on a record that Mr. Icahn has called “unblemished” and his rivals have called enviable. The investor has not been accused of any wrongdoing. Mr. Icahn has denied giving out any inside information and said that he never met or spoke to Mr. Mickelson. Yet the inquiry complicates Mr. Icahn’s attempt to mold his legacy as an investing elder statesman rather than being remembered as the corporate raider of the 1980s. With an investigation hovering in the background, Mr. Icahn may choose to retreat from the limelight, at least temporarily, or remain slightly more muted. In recent years, Mr. Icahn has found a soapbox to air his views on business television networks, peppering company-directed barbs with statements about shareholder democracy. He has also taken to social media like Twitter and Facebook to promote his activist campaigns, and he regularly publishes his views on a new website called Shareholders’ Square Table. Mr. Icahn has called on corporate boards to open their coffers and share the wealth, and he has urged companies like Apple to borrow money to do share buybacks and pay greater dividends. “I am sort of obsessed with corporate governance,” Mr. Icahn said in a recent interview in his office on the 47th floor of the General Motors building in Manhattan. “It’s where I can make a meaningful change in this country.” He has railed against the coziness of corporate boards, which he likens to college fraternities. Mr. Icahn, of course, is no stranger to controversy. He has publicly squared off against America’s biggest companies, recently including Apple, eBay, Yahoo and Motorola. He has made enemies through headline-grabbing hostile bids for companies like United States Steel, Phillips Petroleum, Texaco and Trans World Airlines. More often than not, he has profited wildly from these campaigns. It was with one of his more recent bids — a hostile takeover attempt of Clorox in 2011 that ultimately failed — that Mr. Icahn attracted the attention of investigators. The F.B.I. and the Securities and Exchange Commission are looking into whether Mr. Icahn played any role in a series of well-timed bets made by Mr. Mickelson, the golfer, and by William T. Walters, a golf course owner and high-rolling gambler. Mr. Icahn, Mr. Mickelson and Mr. Walters have not been accused of any wrongdoing. And even if Mr. Icahn did leak information about his bid, he may have done so legally. Earlier takeover efforts by Mr. Icahn prompted criticism that he bought stock in companies only for a short-term gain, pushing the stock price up and then selling off his shares. To this criticism Mr. Icahn has countered that his firm has held stocks for as long as a decade. Others have pointed out that his new form of activism is motivated by self-interest. “His shareholder democracy is right, but it’s also what is convenient,” said John Hempton, chief investment officer of the hedge fund Bronte Capital. While his peers within the hedge fund industry are divided about his legacy, most aspire to the returns his firm has posted over the years. Before he closed his hedge fund, Icahn Partners, to outside investors in 2011, it had an annualized return of 27 percent. Shares of his publicly traded company, Icahn Enterprises, have risen by 32 percent over the last year. “People respect him because he makes his own rules — but that can come with its own problems,” said one hedge fund manager who has worked on campaigns with Mr. Icahn. He has a large following on Wall Street, according to the investment adviser Joshua M. Brown. “He’s seen as someone who’s able to create his own opportunities through sheer force of will, personality and reputation while everyone else is just reacting to stuff, hoping to be right,” Mr. Brown said. Mr. Icahn grew up in Queens, with a schoolteacher mother and a musician father who had ambitions to be a singer at the Metropolitan Opera. His ascent from Queens to a mahogany-lined office overlooking Central Park is in many ways the classic American success story. After a philosophy degree at Princeton, part of which he paid for himself, and a brief stint at medical school, Mr. Icahn got his start trading stocks at the Wall Street brokerage firm Dreyfus. But soon after, Mr. Icahn struck out on his own, opening a firm in 1968. There he began to wage so-called proxy battles by buying up large stakes in companies in order to gain a toehold that would allow him to exert pressure on the board for change. In the booming 1980s, Mr. Icahn made bold and hostile bids for major companies, gaining a reputation as a corporate raider and riding a wave fueled by a boom in junk bonds. This new cheap financing, pioneered by Michael R. Milken and the investment bank Drexel Burnham Lambert, leveled the playing field for risk-takers who wanted to mount corporate takeovers. But many shareholders of the target companies complained that they suffered when these investors became owners and sold off parts of the business to help pay for the deal. Mr. Icahn, for example, was criticized for taking T.W.A. private in the late 1980s and saddling it with debt only to leave it bankrupt in 1992. In 1985, as Mr. Icahn pursued T.W.A., the airline’s president and chief executive, C. E. Meyer Jr., accused him of being “one of the greediest men on earth.” In the decades since, Mr. Icahn has deftly reshaped his style and reputation, transforming himself from a raider to a professed spokesman for the rights of shareholders. Yet the ornery side of the investor continues to come into view. As Mr. Icahn himself joked in a recent interview: “I really like this country, but I sure don’t like some of the people.” Take William A. Ackman, with whom Mr. Icahn has sparred for years. In 2004, Mr. Ackman took legal action against Mr. Icahn over a company that Mr. Icahn owned, disputing a profit-sharing agreement the two had. Mr. Ackman ultimately won the case, but blood has been bad between the two ever since. More recently the two have locked horns over Herbalife, a company Mr. Ackman has bet $1 billion against and asserts is a pyramid scheme. Mr. Icahn has a 17.3 percent stake and five seats on the 13-member board. For Mr. Icahn, who is adept at taking on enemies, decades of rabble-rousing has meant he has less time now for hostility. He is currently focused on Martin Lipton, a lawyer who has defended corporate America for decades and invented the poison pill defense against hostile bidders. Mr. Lipton recently named Mr. Icahn and Mr. Ackman as investors he personally did not like. “I changed my mind about Ackman because anybody Marty Lipton doesn’t like can’t be all that bad,” Mr. Icahn said. When asked why he continued to battle corporate America, Mr. Icahn, an avid chess player who plays against his computer until the early hours, said: “I certainly enjoy the strategy. “But most importantly, I think what we do proves that something must be done about accountability in corporate America.” A version of this article appears in print on 06/02/2014, on page B1 of the NewYork edition with the headline: For Icahn, an Inquiry Could Taint a Legacy. Advertisement