Spark Capital has reaped wealth and prominence through its early investments in start-ups like Twitter and the virtual reality headset maker Oculus. Now the investment firm is aiming to pour money into slightly older companies. The firm has closed on its first-ever growth capital fund, raising $375 million that will be overseen by a newly built team. The fund, raised over several months, is the latest for Spark, which has already been working from a $450 million traditional venture capital vehicle that it raised last year. Over all, the firm managed $1.5 billion in assets before the new fund was raised. Later-stage investments have garnered headlines in recent months as companies including Uber, Airbnb and Pinterest have fetched climbing fund-raising hauls and valuations from investors eager to get a piece of fast-growing start-ups.  Spark is not aiming for the biggest of these businesses. The head of the new fund, Jeremy Philips, said that he would aim for companies that still are not ready for an initial public offering. But the firm still plans to invest $15 million to $30 million on average, with likely target companies eventually rising to around $1 billion in revenue. “We’ve really noticed that companies are capital-efficient to start, but require different expertise and different kinds of capital to scale up,” Bijan Sabet, a partner at Spark, said in a telephone interview. “We’re planning on helping companies scale, whether they’re existing companies of Spark or not.” While the firm has made growth capital investments for much of its decade-long existence, including taking stakes in the online retailer Wayfair and the antiques marketplace 1stdibs, it has not done such deals in a focused way. The new fund will be dedicated solely to finding those kinds of investments. Like the rest of Spark, the growth capital fund will have a special interest in e-commerce, social networks and software makers. Leading the effort is Mr. Philips, who was the managing partner of Occam Partners and is a former executive at News Corporation. He is expected to form a team of six to eight people, with offices on both the East and West Coasts.  Other Spark investment professionals are also expected to contribute to the growth capital fund’s efforts.  Despite the fervor that has descended upon the later-stage venture capital sector, Mr. Sabet said that the firm would continue to invest at its current pace, with professionals striking a few deals each year. “We’re very patient but also aggressive,” he said. “We’re not the type of firm to blow it out, and we’re not trying to time the market.” A version of this article appears in print on 05/29/2014, on page B10 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Venture Fund. Advertisement