The campaign by the hedge fund manager Mark Spitznagel to let goats graze in Detroit has hit a snag. On Thursday, Mr. Spitznagel brought 20 young goats from his farmstead in Northport, Mich., to the Brightmoor neighborhood of Detroit as part of a plan to promote urban renewal and farming. But by Friday afternoon, the future of the plan appeared uncertain. Harry Ward, the head of Detroit’s animal control, showed up to find 18 goats munching on the tall grass surrounding the abandoned homes of Brightmoor, one of the city’s most blighted neighborhoods. Mr. Ward was alerted to the grazing after reading about Mr. Spitznagel’s goats in an article in The New York Times. He said he had been prepared to seize the goats but after assessing the situation, determined that they had adequate food and shelter. He gave the goats — and their caretakers — until Monday to leave the neighborhood; they will be seized otherwise. “On Monday, if they are still there at noon, we will seize and ticket the goats,” he said. Mr. Spitznagel would be fined $500 for each goat, he added. Mr. Spitznagel and his team arrived with the goats on Thursday at a lot with a dilapidated house, ready to roll out a plan that was hatched last winter. Mr. Spitznagel, who runs a $6 billion hedge fund, wants to promote urban farming and decided that he would bring some of his goats to Detroit to help clean up some of its overgrown areas by eating the uncut grass. He had hoped to bring as many as 60 goats to Brightmoor, employing local adults to help herd the goats and build portable pens and electric fencing. When he isn’t managing money for about 15 clients, Mr. Spitznagel rears goats and makes cheese. Leonard Pollara, one of his employees, was fielding calls from reporters on Friday. Speaking briefly before an interview with a local TV station, Mr. Pollara said that he and his colleagues had been unaware that a city ordinance against animals’ grazing on public property would be so “black and white.” “Look, we had really done our homework on this, with the exception of consulting the mayor’s office,” he said. “It’s been a busy day,” Mr. Pollara added. Stefan Prelog, a spokesman for Mr. Spitznagel, said, “We have an alignment of interests with the Brightmoor community in revitalizing it around urban farming. Hopefully the city can get that.” When Mr. Ward was asked whether this was an unusual situation, he replied, “Oh Lordy, no, ma’am.” It could have been worse, he said. “We have one situation we’re dealing with involving peacocks and other fowl that someone let wander.” A version of this article appears in print on 06/07/2014, on page B3 of the NewYork edition with the headline: A Deadline for Goats to Get Out of Detroit. Advertisement