A jury in Manhattan federal court on Monday found that the Texas brothers Samuel and Charles Wyly Jr. had committed fraud by creating a web of offshore trusts that netted them $550 million in illegal trading profits. Jurors found Samuel Wyly and the estate of his brother, who died in 2011, liable on all claims brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Samuel Wyly, 79, last appeared on Forbes’s list of the 400 richest Americans in 2010 with a net worth of $1 billion. Charles Wyly died in a car crash, and an executor for his estate was substituted as a defendant. The trial followed years of litigation and investigation of the Wylys, who acknowledged creating a maze of trusts in the Isle of Man in an effort to obtain tax benefits. The case was seen as a test of the S.E.C.’s trial capabilities after losses in some of its recent cases, including a verdict in which the billionaire Mark Cuban was found not liable last October on insider trading charges. “We are deeply disappointed by the jury’s decision,” Stephen Susman, the Wylys’ lawyer, said in a statement. “Sam and Charles Wyly acted in good faith. We will continue to fight for justice through the next phases of the legal process.” The S.E.C. said the trusts were intended to conceal trading from 1992 to 2004 in four companies on whose boards the Wylys sat. The companies included Sterling Software, Michaels Stores, Sterling Commerce and Scottish Annuity & Life Holdings, now called the Scottish Re Group. Prosecutors said the scheme netted $550 million. They also said the Wylys had earned $31.7 million from insider trading in Sterling Software after selling the company in 1999. Those claims will be decided by United States District Judge Shira Scheindlin, who also will determine the penalties. A trial on remedies is scheduled for Aug. 4. The Wylys denied wrongdoing, saying they were not legally the beneficial owners of securities held in the trusts and had no duty to disclose them. The 12 jurors deliberated over two and a half days. One of them, Kevin Rothman, a retired mailman, said the jury was ultimately convinced the Wylys did not have a viable defense. “We couldn’t see it, we couldn’t find it,” he said. Andrew Ceresney, director of enforcement of the S.E.C., welcomed the jury’s findings. ”We will continue to hold accountable, and bring to trial when necessary, those who commit fraud no matter how complex their scheme or how hard they try to hide it,” Mr. Ceresney said in a statement. A version of this article appears in print on 05/13/2014, on page B2 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Brothers Are Found Guilty of Hiding Trades Through Trusts. Advertisement