Avoiding the pitfalls of fast growth. It caused a bit of a stir (and elicited more than 150 comments) when I wrote in 2012 that, no matter how painful it may be, fast-growth entrepreneurs have to fire the “Brilliant Jerk” if they want to take their companies to the next level. Now we have a surprising postscript to add: what happens when the business owner decides to rehire the Brilliant Jerk. After we published my original post, a chief executive called me and said, “I know you have been stung with a lot of criticism on your blog, but you have changed my life. I know what I have to do now. I have to fire my Brilliant Jerk. We have gone from $10 million to $20 million in revenue, but he has been a battle every step of the way.” We talked a little more and sure enough his employee fit at least 19 of the 21 attributes of a Brilliant Jerk (I’m working on a post that will list and explain all 21 attributes; feel free to submit suggestions). Firing a productive but difficult employee is never easy, so I wished him luck. And he did in fact terminate the Brilliant Jerk.  But the pain did not end with the usual emotionally charged farewell. This Brilliant Jerk pushed back and threw everything he could think of at the company. The fight became vicious with battles in court and over vendors and employees.  As the fight progressed, the C.E.O. kept me up to date, and I stayed on message: Make a clean break as soon as you can. The C.E.O. kept saying, “I know.” And by week three, it became clear that the C.E.O. was on firm ground as the Brilliant Jerk started to shoot blanks. His attempts to destroy the company were becoming increasingly desperate. The fight had been as nasty as it can get, but it was clear who was going to win. And then I got a phone call from the C.E.O. that I did not see coming. “I have rehired the Brilliant Jerk,” he told me. I had to stop and absorb the news. “Why?” I asked. “I think he has learned his lesson,” the C.E.O. responded. “We can turn all this into a positive.” I took a deep breath and paused. I did not want to blurt out what I was really thinking: Have you lost your mind? It would have done no good — he had already rehired him. It was a done deal with everybody dropping their weapons and hugging. So I said, well, this will be interesting. I had never known anyone to rehire a Brilliant Jerk. Because they had battled for four weeks, the C.E.O. never got to see how great a day can be without his Brilliant Jerk in the picture. If he had, I don’t think he would have rehired him. Ever since, for more than a year, I have been watching and waiting to learn how this would turn out.  The first six months were a total love fest. The Brilliant Jerk was the top performer and, even better, told everyone that he had looked the world over and could not find a better job or deal. He was back, and he was all brilliant and no jerk. What else could you ask for? Nothing — if it stayed that way. But after six months, the negativity started. After nine months, the constant whining returned. And then it all came apart when the company released a new sales commission plan that offered larger commissions on new sales but stopped paying commissions on some old accounts. The plan was readily accepted by 26 salespeople who clearly believed the company was going out of its way to be fair. The Brilliant Jerk said he would keep the old plan or it would be a fight. Worse, he tried to poison the plan with others and kicked up dust until cooler heads prevailed. So, here is the new plan: The C.E.O. is going to refire the Brilliant Jerk on July 1, the first day of the new compensation plan. Actually, he will simply tell the Brilliant Jerk, “You have elected not to work here, and you are relieved of your duties effective immediately.” Again, I have advised the C.E.O. to make a clean break and not to get emotionally involved in the sure-to-follow exit squabble. He needs to bring finality to this episode. I will tell you how it goes. Cliff Oxford is the founder of the Oxford Center for Entrepreneurs. You can follow him on Twitter. You're the Boss offers an insider's perspective on small-business ownership. It gives business owners a place where they can compare notes, ask questions, get advice, and learn from one another's mistakes. The blog also offers analysis of policy issues, and suggests investing tips.
 The final You're the Boss post was published on Dec. 23. Advertisement