THE financial industry may be fixated on virtual currencies and credit card technologies, but don’t declare cash an endangered species just yet. There are now are more greenbacks coursing through the American financial system than at any time in recent history. Since January 2006, the amount of United States currency in circulation rose about 64 percent, to $1.2 trillion, showing its resiliency. But divining the future of money from the explosive growth of cash is not so easy. A 2012 annual report by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco suggests that the demand for dollars may be driven not by spenders, but by hoarders. In the face of political and financial instability in recent years, consumers around the world are finding comfort in holding American dollars. Americans aren’t the only ones with an affinity for United States currency. As the European debt crisis intensified in 2010, people living abroad converted more of their euros into dollars, the San Francisco Fed noted. “To paraphrase Mark Twain, reports of the demise of cash are greatly exaggerated,” John C. Williams, president of the San Francisco Fed, wrote in an essay in the 2012 report.  That doesn’t mean consumers are necessarily spending those bills. As the total amount of dollars in the system balloons, the San Francisco Fed found, signs of cash transactions are declining. Instead, consumers are using more debit and credit cards. As evidence, the report notes the number of $50 and $20 bills in circulation has grown less quickly than the overall amount of cash in the system. The San Francisco Fed paper notes that more people are likely to use the smaller bills to buy goods and services, while holding on to $100 bills for value. Such dynamics don’t exactly portend a world of purely paperless money. After the financial crisis wiped out stock market investments and home values, more people and entities around the world wanted to put physical cash in safe deposit boxes and under mattresses, partly out of fear of another market collapse. 
PhotoSource: Federal ReserveCredit Peter and Maria Hoey
PhotoSource: Federal ReserveCredit Peter and Maria Hoey “It is very ingrained in the American psyche to have some bills in your pocket no matter how many smartphones you have,” said Bruce Wayne Renard, executive director of the National A.T.M. Council. Memories of the 2008 crisis will eventually fade. But just as the Great Depression shaped a generation of penny pinchers, the growth in cash suggests the Great Recession may have spawned a generation of people who are attracted to cash because, unlike virtual currency, you can touch it and know it has value. In an increasingly digital world, the hallmarks of old-school retail banking have also endured. The number of A.T.M.s in the United States, for example, is largely flat, though the industry is upgrading its technology to better thwart theft. The number of bank branches is also relatively stable, even as some large banks have publicized their plans to reduce their overall retail footprints in favor of targeting more affluent markets. But in recent years, the number of bank holding companies has declined as a result of mergers and new rules that squeezed smaller banks. As a result, consumers have fewer brands and companies to choose from. Banks say customers still like to conduct some financial business, like taking out loans, in person. And banks are convinced that it is easier to sell customers additional products once they are in the door than if their transactions are limited to an iPad. The number of bank tellers is still declining, but the drop off doesn’t appear as steep as it was immediately following the financial crisis, according to the Labor Department. Just about the only measure of old-school banking in steep decline is the check. Americans are writing half as many checks as they did a decade ago, as electronic payments and direct deposit become the norm for many companies and consumers. The current appeal of holding onto cash could start to wane. With interest rates near historical lows, Americans are not giving up any marginal returns by holding onto cash. But they might start to move their cash into savings and other interest-bearing accounts as rates rise, thus decreasing the amount of currency in the system. For now, though, Mr. Williams of the San Francisco Fed writes, “Cash lives on.” A version of this article appears in print on 04/02/2014, on page F12 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Checks Are Expendable, but in Legal Tender We Trust. Advertisement