The large retirement investment firm TIAA-CREF said on Monday that it had agreed to buy Nuveen Investments, an investment management firm, for about $6.25 billion, to become one of the country’s top money managers. The deal, whose price includes the assumption of debt, will give TIAA-CREF an additional $221 billion in assets under management, and in particular will bolster the firm’s mutual fund offerings. Begun 96 years ago, TIAA-CREF has sought to expand beyond its roots as an investment adviser for academics and hospitals, particularly during the tenure of Roger W. Ferguson Jr., its chief executive. As a result of the deal, the assets managed by TIAA-CREF will grow to about $800 billion.  The transaction is one of the biggest takeovers of an asset manager in the last five years, outdone only by BlackRock’s $13.3 billion purchase of Barclays Global Investors in 2009. TIAA-CREF has about $570 billion worth of assets, and it has been especially eager to diversify its offerings in mutual funds and other financial products, a mix that includes retirement plans, brokerage services and annuities plans. The Nuveen purchase is expected to be a big step toward that effort. Nuveen, which was founded in 1898 and has focused heavily on municipal bonds for most of its history, has added various mutual and closed-end funds to its offerings over the years. “For nearly a hundred years, we have been wise financial stewards for those who make a difference in the world in the academic and nonprofit communities,” Mr. Ferguson said in a statement. “The acquisition of Nuveen can generate greater returns that will benefit our customers.” Nuveen earned about $45 million last year, swinging from a $571 million loss in 2012, according to regulatory filings. It reported about $1 billion in revenue for 2013, down slightly from the previous year. TIAA-CREF is buying Nuveen from the private equity firm Madison Dearborn Partners, which bought Nuveen seven years ago, during the height of the credit boom, for nearly $5.8 billion. Madison Dearborn is expected to break roughly even on the deal. With its new owner, Nuveen is to continue to operate as a separate subsidiary, still run by John Amboian as chief executive. “The clients of Nuveen, and each of our investment affiliates, will benefit from TIAA-CREF’s support of our multiboutique approach and from the continuity of our client services, our brands and our professionals, whose interests will remain strongly aligned with our long-term success,” Mr. Amboian said in a statement. The deal was expected to close by the end of the year. TIAA-CREF was advised by Lazard and JPMorgan Chase. Nuveen was advised by Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Wells Fargo and Citigroup, while its management team was advised by UBS, Goldman Sachs and Moelis & Company. Madison Dearborn was advised by Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank and the Royal Bank of Canada. A version of this article appears in print on 04/15/2014, on page B5 of the NewYork edition with the headline: TIAA-CREF to Buy Nuveen Investments. Advertisement