Sergio Ermotti on the huge overhaul that has seen the Swiss bank cut thousands of jobs and reshape itself into a smaller, more profitable organization focused on wealth management. LONDON – The Swiss bank UBS said on Tuesday that first-quarter profit rose 7 percent as it reshaped its business to reduce risk and better navigate future financial upheavals. UBS reported profit of 1.05 billion Swiss francs, or about $1.2 billion. That compares with a profit of 988 million francs in the period a year earlier, and was ahead of analysts’ expectations. The bank also introduced plans to change its legal structure to comply with regulatory requirements intended to help it weather the next financial crisis, namely by walling off its businesses by region. UBS said it planned to make a special payment to shareholders after the structural changes. UBS and its Swiss rival, Credit Suisse, have shed loans and other riskier debt in recent years to meet Swiss regulatory rules, while also bolstering their capital reserves. “I’m pleased with the first quarter, as we demonstrated sustainable profitability across all business divisions and regions,” Sergio P. Ermotti, the UBS chief executive, said in a statement. “Dedicated and disciplined execution of our strategy for the benefit of clients and shareholders remains our top priority.” UBS also said it would establish a new group holding company through a share exchange, which would allow the bank to lower its continuing capital requirements under Swiss rules. UBS said it planned to return at least 0.25 franc a share to its investors afterward. As part of its structural changes, UBS’s operations in various regions will be required to shoulder more of the risk for their operations. That includes establishing a banking subsidiary in Switzerland by mid-2015 and creating a separate holding company in the United States by July 2016. The changes are the latest in a huge overhaul that has seen the bank cut thousands of jobs and reshape itself into a smaller, more profitable organization focused on wealth management. Tom Naratil, the bank’s chief financial officer, said the results showed the bank’s strategy was working. “Our strategy is the right one for UBS and can work in a variety of market conditions,” he told analysts on Tuesday. Last year, UBS said it would not reach its target goal of 15 percent return on equity until 2016. Mr. Ermotti told Bloomberg TV that UBS would “most likely” to reach the target in 2016. Return on equity for the first quarter this year was 8.7 percent. Investment banking pretax profit of 548 million francs was 36 percent below consensus, as a result of a 38 percent drop in revenue from bond, currency and commodity trading, Citigroup said in a note to clients. This drop mirrors declines in fixed-income results at other banks. Net interest income rose 6 percent, to 1.57 billion francs. Total operating income declined 7 percent, to 7.26 billion francs. In the wealth management division, pretax income declined 7 percent, to 619 million francs, compared with 664 million francs in the period a year earlier. Pretax profit declined 36 percent, to 122 million francs, in the global asset management business. That compared with 190 million francs in the first quarter of 2013. In the investment bank, pretax income fell 56 percent, to 425 million francs, compared with 977 million francs in the period a year earlier. The bank’s common equity Tier 1 capital, a measure of its ability to absorb losses, rose to 13.2 percent at the end of the first quarter from 10.1 percent in the period a year earlier.  European banks are required to have a minimum of 4 percent common equity Tier 1 capital under the so-called Basel III regulatory scheme, but larger banks are required to maintain a higher minimum capital level, which is set by regulators. One analyst expressed surprise that the head count for the bank’s front office had increased, despite the bank’s long-stated intention to shrink its riskier businesses in favor of the steadier, and more consistently profitable, wealth management business. Mr. Naratil said there had been “excess reduction” last year, which created space for more hiring this year. A version of this article appears in print on 05/07/2014, on page B7 of the NewYork edition with the headline: ...And an Executive Departs. Advertisement