Updated, 9:03 p.m. | The monthslong takeover battle between two of the country’s biggest suit sellers may be drawing to a close. Men’s Wearhouse said on Monday that it had reached a nondisclosure agreement with its rival Jos. A. Bank Clothiers, setting up talks that could lead to a merger of the two men’s-wear retailers. As part of the accord, Jos. A. Bank submitted a draft of a merger agreement to Men’s Wearhouse, paving the way for a deal that may be worth more than $1.8 billion. The confidentiality agreement will finally allow the two to begin sharing confidential business information, after Jos. A. Bank said last week that it was willing to entertain discussions with its unwanted rival if they could lead to a higher takeover bid. Men’s Wearhouse last offered to buy its rival for $63.50 a share, or about $1.8 billion, a level that Jos. A. Bank has called too low. But Men’s Wearhouse has left open the possibility of raising that bid to $65 a share — if certain conditions were met. The move is the latest turn in a drama over two of the most recognizable names in the suiting business. On one side is Men’s Wearhouse, a national chain best known for ads featuring its now-deposed founder, George Zimmer, intoning: “You’re going to like the way you look. I guarantee it.” One the other is Jos. A. Bank, best known for seemingly endless promotions that entice customers to buy one suit and get two free. It was Jos. A. Bank that began the takeover fight last fall with an unsolicited — and ultimately failed — bid to buy its larger competitor, hoping to create a company that could better compete against department stores and other rivals. Analysts have long considered a merger of the two chains a natural combination, an opinion that has been echoed by a number of shareholders since last fall. But Men’s Wearhouse resisted, and later turned the tables with a hostile bid for its onetime pursuer. As a defensive measure, Jos. A. Bank entered into an agreement last month to buy the outdoor goods retailer Eddie Bauer for $825 million. Many interpreted the transaction as a way to block the hostile bid by Men’s Wearhouse; indeed, Men’s Wearhouse sued in Delaware’s Court of Chancery to stop that takeover from proceeding. But that deal was intended in part as a move to elicit a higher takeover bid from Men’s Wearhouse, a person briefed on the matter previously said. It provides for some ways for Jos. A. Bank to walk away from the Eddie Bauer deal. Chief among them is a clause that lets Bank consider any takeover bids for itself that could create more value for its shareholders, language aimed squarely at Men’s Wearhouse. The provision was an important negotiating point between Jos. A. Bank and Eddie Bauer’s current owner, the private equity firm Golden Gate Capital, people briefed on the talks have said. In addition, the cost of breaking off the Eddie Bauer transaction is relatively low: about $48 million. Shares in Jos. A. Bank closed up slightly on Monday, at $62.31, still below Men’s Wearhouse’s last public offer price. Shares in Men’s Wearhouse also rose a little, at $54.10. Advertisement