Updated, 6:17 p.m. |  It took Ally Financial more than three years to finally reach the stock markets. Shareholders so far, however, have greeted the lender’s public debut with a shrug. Shares in Ally opened at $24.25, about 3 percent below the company’s initial public offering price. They ended the day down 4 percent at $23.98, below the I.P.O. price of $25 a share. Underwriters had already priced the stock sale at the low end of an expected range. The disappointing performance comes as I.P.O.s have found a slightly chillier reception among public investors lately. An exchange-traded fund that tracks new stock sales is down slightly for the year to date, after having risen by about 8 percent during the same time last year. But Ally wasn’t seeking to raise money in its offering. Instead, the 95 million shares that were sold belonged to the Treasury Department, which has been moving to trim its holdings in the bailed-out lender. Even though the I.P.O. priced at the bottom of its expected range, it raised nearly $2.4 billion for taxpayers. Now, the federal government has recovered about $17.7 billion from its investments in the firm, more than the $17.2 billion that it poured in. It shrank its stake to 17 percent, from 35 percent. “This is the headline of the day, from our point of view,” Michael Carpenter, Ally’s chief executive, said in an interview. “It’s a great outcome, and we’re very, very pleased about that.” Mr. Carpenter said that he expects the government to fully sell off its holdings by year end. Ally — once known as GMAC Financial, the financing arm of General Motors — ran into trouble during the financial crisis, as its onetime mortgage lending unit faltered under the weight of souring home loans. But the federal government stepped in to save the firm, as part of its plan to prop up G.M. and Chrysler. Since then, Ally has shed a number of operations to help repay the government and refocus itself as an online bank and auto financing company. Mr. Carpenter said that getting the government out of the company is an important goal. Under current restrictions imposed by its bailouts, he said, he cannot reward certain employees with performance bonuses, since their compensation has to be planned out several months ahead. And prospective business partners still regard the Treasury Department’s stake with some wariness. Though Ally has lost Chrysler as a customer for auto financing, company executives said that the lender is still performing well. Its online bank has more than 50 percent awareness among survey respondents, and continues to add new customers, Mr. Carpenter said. And its auto finance business continues to diversify its customer base. With the firm having made another big move toward becoming fully independent, the company expects to become more aggressive about expanding businesses like commercial finance. “We spent almost the last five years playing defense,” Mr. Carpenter said. “Now we’re moving from defense to offense. A version of this article appears in print on 04/11/2014, on page B7 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Ally's I.P.O.. Advertisement