For Wells Fargo’s investors, it is hard to argue with 15 consecutive jumps in quarterly profit. And that trend continued on Friday, when the bank announced a 13 percent rise in third-quarter profit to a record $5.6 billion, or 99 cents a share, beating the expectations of analysts. Yet the bank’s shares fell as much as 2.8 percent on Friday before regaining some ground later, and some analysts sounded their disappointment. Wells Fargo shares closed up 0.02 percent on Friday. The reason: Beneath the steady churn of profits, growth was muted for Wells Fargo’s mortgage business, signaling potential trouble ahead for the bank, the nation’s largest home lender. The bank’s revenue also slumped to $20.5 billion, from $ $21.2 billion a year ago. By virtue of creating about a third of all mortgages in the country, Wells Fargo’s fortunes rise and fall with its lending business. And because the bank serves as a barometer for the broader health of the mortgage business, Wells Fargo’s third-quarter results suggests a slowdown for the industry. The stalled mortgage machine is the result of rising interest rates that discouraged borrowers from refinancing their mortgages. Wells Fargo received $87 billion worth of home loan applications in the quarter, a steep fall from $188 billion in the period a year earlier. Its mortgage originations totaled $80 billion, down 42 percent. Mortgage banking revenue also slumped. And mortgage banking noninterest income fell 43 percent. “Weak mortgage banking clearly stole the show,” said Shannon Stemm, a financial services analyst at Edward Jones. “That said, they’re able to continue their consecutive earnings growth.” Wells Fargo executives note that investors widely expected the uptick in interest rates to prompt a temporary lull in mortgage refinancing. “It was more or less something we’ve been planning on,” the bank’s chief financial officer, Timothy J. Sloan, said in an interview. “I wouldn’t get overly concerned about what our stock does on a daily basis.” The mortgage slowdown and rising rates largely stem from a subtle shift at the Federal Reserve. Until now, banks have benefited from Fed policies intended to stimulate the economy after the financial crisis. As the Fed slashed interest rates, it spurred millions of borrowers to refinance their home loans to take advantage of the lower rates. But this spring, the Fed signaled that it could ease its stimulus as the economy continues to recover. The warning prompted investors to drive up interest rates around the globe, thus stifling enthusiasm for refinancing. Although rates started to fall again in the final days of the third quarter — and the Fed recently said “it would be prudent to await further evidence of progress before” curtailing the stimulus — the average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage stands at 4.22 percent, up from a low of 3.34 percent in early 2013. Paradoxically, while the rising rates depressed Wells Fargo’s returns, they also reflect underlying strength in the housing market. Home values have climbed. And the “household balance sheet is starting to improve,” Mr. Sloan said. Signs of that lift are seen at Wells Fargo. The quality of the bank’s loans were better, with its nonperforming assets declining 18 percent and net charge-offs for bad debt falling even further. The improvement allowed the bank to release $900 million from its reserves, a move that helped pad the overall earnings report. “Interest rates go up; interest rates go down,” John G. Stumpf, the bank’s chief executive, said in an interview, adding that his first mortgage had an 8.5 percent rate. “The fact that the housing market is getting better is good for the American public, it’s good for our customers and in the long term, it’s good for our business.” Aside from the mortgage business, the bank’s third-quarter results came in strong, analysts said. The brokerage unit reported a 33 percent increase in profits. And profit at the community banking unit, which includes Wells Fargo’s retail branches and mortgage business, climbed 22 percent to $3.3 billion. The unit’s average deposits rose $79.1 billion from the previous year. Despite the negative outlook for mortgage growth, other types of loans were continuing to grow. The bank’s overall loan portfolio — a bucket that includes commercial real estate, mortgages, credit cards and auto loans — rose 4 percent in the third quarter to $812.3 billion. In particular, originations increased for auto loans and commercial real estate. As the rebound continues, a growth in loans for home purchases probably will offset losses in refinancing. In the third quarter, despite a 48 percent drop in refinancing originations, loan originations for actual home purchases were down only 4 percent compared with the second quarter. “It’s the underlying trends that are really important,” Mr. Sloan said. Advertisement