7:55 p.m. | Updated  Leonard S. Riggio has spent nearly his entire career building Barnes & Noble into the biggest name in book chains. Now, Mr. Riggio, the company’s 71-year-old chairman, is readying a bid to buy the struggling bookseller’s 689 stores in an effort to save them from a stormy future in the public markets. The plan by Mr. Riggio, disclosed in a securities filing on Monday, highlights how relentless competition from online sellers and elsewhere, which has demolished much of the traditional book-selling industry, continues to hound Barnes & Noble.  The move would effectively cleave the retail arm, which established itself over four decades as the industry’s giant, from Nook Media, the e-book division that investors and analysts had believed would usher the retailer into the Internet era. The Nook has been beaten badly by Amazon.com’s Kindle and the iPad in sales. Earlier this month, the company’s retail unit reported a 10.9 percent drop in holiday sales, while its Nook unit disclosed a 12.6 percent decrease. The retailer has said that it plans to close about 15 unprofitable stores a year, replacing them much more slowly. While Mr. Riggio has often speculated to associates for years about potentially taking at least some of the company private, he appeared to become serious about buying its stores only in the last few weeks, according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter. Investors appeared pleased by the prospect, as the company’s shares jumped 11.5 percent on Monday, to $15.06. That values the retailer at $901.1 million — half of the roughly $1.8 billion valuation that Nook Media fetched from investors last year. It’s unclear how much Mr. Riggio would offer for the retail arm, which accounted for half of the company’s second-quarter revenue. Analyst estimates of the division’s worth on Monday ranged from $484.5 million to more than $1 billion. While Barnes & Noble has weighed the possibility of selling the Nook division before, few appetizing options have materialized. An analyst at Forrester Research, James L. McQuivey, argued that the company had little ability to command a top-drawer price for its legacy business. “Making a bet on bookstores now, when we don’t know what the ultimate footprint of those stores will be, will require getting a really great price,” Mr. McQuivey said. But a person close to the company suggested that Barnes & Noble would be hard pressed to accept anything short of $1 billion. Should Mr. Riggio make an offer, which would very likely be mostly in cash, he would face one of his biggest challenges since buying a single troubled bookshop in Manhattan and turning it into a national empire. Mr. Riggio has watched the rise of Amazon as a lower-priced competitor, which has beaten its profits and shares down, while smaller rivals like the Borders Group eventually went out of business. Still, he repeatedly emphasized that Barnes & Noble understood that the future lay in digital sales, and introduced the Nook in 2009 to show that it could compete with its much younger rival. The Nook drew in as investors Microsoft and the British publisher Pearson, which collectively bought a 23 percent stake last year. And the division’s various offerings have won praise from critics, some of whom recommended the devices over Amazon’s. But in three years after the first device was sold, the Nook still trails the Kindle, the iPad and other tablets. Barnes & Noble warned earlier this month that the division’s losses will have grown from the previous year, not decreased. An analyst at Credit Suisse, Gary Balter, described Nook Media in a research note on Monday as “money-losing and increasingly poorly positioned.” Analysts said that a separation of the company’s businesses could make sense. Supporting the enormous costs of Nook Media has long weighed on the retail arm, and eliminating that could help profitability. “What I suspect we are seeing is that the current management brought in to develop the Nook has been distracted from the stores,” said Mike Shatzkin, the founder of Idea Logical, a media consulting firm. “And I am sure Mr. Riggio said to himself, ‘I can do this better.’ ” Book publishers also said that they welcome any move that would keep Barnes & Noble afloat, which would give them some negotiating leverage with Amazon over book prices. Physical bookstores also serve as a crucial way for readers to decide on new titles. “Publishers and the public benefit from a healthy competitive market with many choices for readers who want to buy books in print or digital form,” David Steinberger, the chief executive of Perseus Books Group, wrote in an e-mail. “Given the volatility of the public markets, taking this kind of business private will be a positive step for publishers and readers.” But Barnes & Noble executives are concerned that a separation could leave Nook Media cut off from the cash flow it depends on, according to the person close to the company. Any deal would most likely include an agreement to keep featuring Nook devices in Barnes & Noble bookstores, analysts said. Barnes & Noble said that a special committee of its board, led by Patricia L. Higgins, would evaluate any proposal. Those directors have retained Evercore Partners and the law firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison as advisers. Mr. Riggio is working with the Peter J. Solomon Company. A version of this article appears in print on 02/26/2013, on page B3 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Chairman of Barnes & Noble Planning Offer for Its Stores, but Not Nook. Advertisement