This week’s Your Money column tells the tale of Andrea and Stephen Kondaks, a couple whose Brooklyn home took in nearly eight feet of water during Hurricane Sandy. Dealing with the trauma and physical clean-up after the storm was hard enough. But Mrs. Kondaks has spent the last four months trying to convince the couple’s flood insurer that its estimate for the cost of repair was woefully inadequate. In November, Ron Lieber wrote a Your Money column about some of the issues and problems that claimants should be prepared for. Many of them have played out in the Kondakses’ case. We would like to continue to follow this story. Please share your experiences in dealing with your insurance company thus far. Were you satisfied with the insurance adjustor’s final estimate on the extent of the damages and the cost of repair? Has the insurer cut you a check yet? Have you learned anything that could help others in their recovery efforts? A version of this article appears in print on 03/09/2013, on page B4 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Troubles With Flood Insurance. 
			Personal finance features and news coverage from can now be found on the Your Money page.Read more… 
			What parents mean by “part-time” work, why the future of your Nook books is uncertain, free theater in the park (and parking lot) and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times.Read more… 
			How faith can affect mental health therapy, freshening up a kitchen for a home sale, creating your own personal weather station and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times.Read more… 
			Travel warnings are issued on Egypt, the Ford F-250 is now thieves’ favorite target, regulators crack down on abusive debt collection and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times.Read more… 
			A software glitch involving the new health care law may mean that some smokers won’t bear the full brunt of tobacco-user penalties that could have made their premiums much higher, at least for the first year.Read more… Advertisement