Advertisement Supported by By Stanley Reed LONDON — At Dimitris Poliviou’s car repair shop, customers are increasingly turning up with diesel-powered vehicles. “There are loads and loads of them,” Mr. Poliviou said as his crew in the Belsize Park neighborhood here worked on a diesel Volkswagen Passat. The statistics bear him out. Over the last quarter-century, European drivers have embraced diesel cars as they tried to save money in a region of high-priced fuel.  More than half of the new cars registered in Western Europe last year were diesel powered, compared with only about one in 10 back in 1990. (Even now, only about 3 percent of new cars in the United States are diesels, according to the market researcher IHS.) That is why Exxon Mobil, the biggest American oil company, is trying to take advantage of the diesel boom to bolster its struggling European refining business.  As fuel refining has eroded into a money-losing proposition for most European players, Exxon Mobil is making a contrarian bet, with a plan to invest more than $1 billion in expanding diesel-fuel production at its big refinery in Antwerp, Belgium. Steve Hart, Exxon Mobil’s head of refining for Europe and most other regions outside the United States, said in an interview this week that the company was taking a long-term view in betting on diesel to reinvigorate its refining operations. “If you look at Europe, demand for diesel continues to increase and demand for gasoline is decreasing,” he said. European carmakers like Renault and Volkswagen have responded to changing customer tastes with new diesel designs that have helped make diesel even more popular, through changes like adding turbo chargers to smooth acceleration. But fuel suppliers in Europe, because of the expense of converting refineries, have been slower to adjust. Many find themselves awash in gasoline for which there is diminishing demand. Mr. Hart also suggested that Exxon Mobil was considering diesel investments at other locations in Europe, where the company has nine refineries and is second largest in the industry, after the French giant Total. From its network of refineries in northwest Europe, Mr. Hart said, Exxon Mobil will collect heavy fuels for which there is no longer much demand — like the so-called bunker used by older ships — and carry it by boat to Antwerp. There, a new refinery unit will distill the gooey substances into diesel and a similar lighter-weight fuel used by more modern ships. The company will then sell the diesel in northwestern Europe, which now imports large quantities of the fuel from the United States, the Middle East and Russia. Exxon Mobil is trying to catch up with a powerful trend that was initially encouraged by lower taxation on diesel cars and fuel, and then grew with big improvements in European auto design. Carmakers in Germany and France have developed popular diesel versions of the Volkswagen Golf, the Audi A4, the Renault Clio and the Peugeot 308, allowing diesels to grab around two-thirds of the new-car market in France, Spain and Belgium, and about half of that market in Britain and Germany. “The European manufacturers are the market leaders,” said Oliver Waschilowski, who follows the car industry for IHS in Essen, Germany. In bygone days, many drivers disdained diesel cars as being pokey and for emitting smelly fumes. But thanks to a string of improvements, diesel vehicles are now considered high-performance machines. “People prefer the power delivery with diesel — they feel a lot quicker,” said Luke Madden, news editor of Auto Express and Carbuyer, websites based in London. Mr. Madden said diesel cars achieved substantially more miles per gallon than their gasoline-burning counterparts. That is particularly important in European countries, including Britain, where gasoline costs about $8.50 a gallon and diesel about $8.80, compared with about $3.70 for gas and about $3.90 for diesel in the United States. Mr. Madden and Mr. Poliviou, the mechanic, caution that diesels have drawbacks. For instance, diesel cars need to be driven regularly and at a fairly high speed to clean the filters that catch the soot and other particles their engines produce. In cars used only for stop-and-start city driving, those filters can gum up and cause problems. The big shifts in the European auto fleet have caused huge changes in fuel consumption. Car and truck drivers in the European Union now burn more than 2.5 times as much diesel as they do gasoline. A decade ago the use was even. Those changes have left European refiners with a product mix too skewed toward gasoline — creating a glut of fuel that is increasingly difficult to export to the United States because North American refineries can produce it themselves at a lower cost.  Many European refineries are thought to be losing money because of sluggish gasoline demand in Europe and competition from imports coming from the United States and new facilities in the Middle East. Unlike Exxon Mobil, many are reluctant or unable to make the big investments needed to adjust to the new environment. Robert Campbell, an analyst at Energy Aspects, a market research firm, figures that the smaller European refineries are losing $4 to $6 a barrel on the oil they process, while larger refineries may be making a razor-thin profit of $1 to $2 a barrel. Refiners, he said, have thought that “because European oil demand is going down, there is no reason to invest in refineries.” But Exxon Mobil, with its deep pockets, is doing what it thinks is necessary to continue as a European player. Some analysts question whether the move is wise in an industry still plagued by substantial overcapacity.  “When European margins may not rise for many years, a new investment in European capacity is not what I like to see,” said Oswald Clint, an analyst for Bernstein Research in London. Exxon Mobil could improve profits more rapidly by closing poorly performing facilities in Europe, he said. Others disagree. “European refineries have to invest in a difficult environment if they want to be around for the long term,” said Paul Hodges, chairman of International eChem, a consulting firm in London. “It would be far more expensive to pretend that somehow the world will return to the market conditions of 25 years ago.”     Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS