Over the past weeks, it has become quite common to speculate that Bank of America might solve its “Countrywide problem” by putting the mortgage unit into bankruptcy to escape some liabilities and litigation losses.  Bloomberg News has reported on the idea, and so has Dealbook’s Deal Professor. One thing that has not been discussed is how such a bankruptcy would come out very differently for two groups that otherwise have the same basic legal rights against Countrywide Financial.  I am speaking here of the Countrywide bondholders on the one hand, and those who have various tort claims (like claims for fraud), on the other. During the height of the financial crisis, the Bank of America Corporation, the financial holding company that is at the top of the BofA pyramid, guaranteed more than $16 billion of Countrywide debt.  The 8-K filing announcing the move is set forth below. This means that a Countrywide bankruptcy would only address its total debt picture if it also involved a bankruptcy of the bank’s holding company.  That appears quite unlikely and it would be quite messy, since the holding company is no doubt a “credit support provider” on countless derivatives on the Merrill Lynch side of the company — maybe on the bank side as well. A bankruptcy filing by a credit support provider would set off a right to terminate in all these swaps.  That means the bank would essentially be stuck in a place not unlike that of Lehman Brothers’ parent company, where lots of counterparties terminate the swaps if it is in their interest, and others simply refuse to perform. In short, a filing by the parent company would be highly unattractive. That would leave a bankruptcy filing for just Countrywide only.  But that also would mean that Bank of America would have to make good on the guarantee to the bondholders. Bondholders have the benefit of the guarantee, but other creditors — like those who argue that Countrywide committed fraud in connection with their mortgages or foreclosures — do not. In short, bondholders would be repaid what they are owed in any Countrywide bankruptcy.  Others are not likely to be so lucky. Bank of America 8-K Filing on Countrywide Financial(function() { var scribd = document.createElement("script"); scribd.type = "text/javascript"; scribd.async = true; scribd.src = "//www.scribd.com/javascripts/embed_code/inject.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(scribd, s); })(); Advertisement