Advertisement By JACK EWINGJULY 16, 2014
 FRANKFURT — The euro appears to be regaining favor with international investors. The European Central Bank said Wednesday that foreign investment in the eurozone rose last year, and that there were signs this year that the euro was winning back popularity as a currency for issuing debt and conducting international transactions. “The euro is back as a funding currency,” Benoît Coeuré, a member of the E.C.B. executive board, said Wednesday as he presented a study examining the euro’s place in international finance. The picture was mixed, however: The same study also found that the euro lost share last year as a percentage of reserves held by central banks. The dollar remained dominant as a reserve currency, though there is a trend for central banks and other investors to diversify their holdings. The Canadian and Australian dollars are among currencies that have gained popularity. Advertisement The euro is attractive for borrowers at the moment because the European Central Bank’s benchmark annual interest rate is at a record of 0.15 percent and is likely to stay low for some time. Advertisement By contrast, the Federal Reserve in the United States is expected to begin raising interest rates as early as next year. That will tend to increase the cost of borrowing in dollars. The euro was trading on Wednesday around $1.36. Mr. Coeuré said that a rise in foreign investment in eurozone stocks and bonds last year, to the equivalent of 3.7 percent of gross domestic product, from 3 percent in 2012, showed that investors had become more confident about the survival of the eurozone. But they have not stopped worrying altogether. “The international status of the euro has been persistently affected by the euro crisis,” he said. A currency’s role in international transactions is partly a matter of prestige, but also has some concrete economic effects. For example, a currency that is widely used is likely to be less vulnerable to sharp changes in value. The central bank also makes a profit from printing money, and earns more such profit — which it passes on to governments — if demand for the currency increases.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. On the other hand, central banks lose some of their control over monetary policy when the currency they oversee is used widely outside the borders of their jurisdiction. The European Central Bank officially takes a neutral view of the euro’s place in global finance and does not try to increase its share in the market. The dollar accounts for 61.2 percent of the currency held by central banks, according to the European Central Bank. The euro was second as a reserve currency with a 24.4 percent share, compared with 25.3 percent at the end of 2012. Mr. Coeuré said that preliminary data for 2014 showed that the euro’s share of foreign currency reserves had steadied. Advertisement “There might be tentative signs of a stabilization or even a turnaround,” Mr. Coeuré said. “But it remains to be seen whether this represents a firm turning point.” Moreover, he said, preliminary data for 2014 showed that the euro was rebounding in some categories of international finance. Issuance of debt denominated in euros had doubled so far this year, he said. Until recently the trend had been in the other direction. The euro’s share of the international debt market declined to about 25 percent last year, compared with 31 percent in 2007, the European Central Bank said, while the dollar’s share rose to 54.8 percent from 44.3 percent during the same period. A version of this article appears in print on July 17, 2014, on Page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: E.C.B. Sees Confidence in Euro After Influx of Investment.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »