Advertisement By BINYAMIN APPELBAUMJULY 2, 2014
 In an event at the International Monetary Fund in Washington, the Federal Reserve chairwoman said that monetary policy faces limitations as a tool to promote financial stability. WASHINGTON —  The Federal Reserve chairwoman, Janet L. Yellen, said on Wednesday that the central bank did not plan to raise interest rates or alter its stimulus campaign to address concerns about excesses in the financial system. Ms. Yellen reiterated her view that governments should seek to preserve financial stability primarily through stronger regulation, which she described as a work in progress. She said that raising interest rates to deflate financial markets was, at best, a second line of defense, and that she saw no need to consider it now. “I do not presently see a need for monetary policy to deviate from a primary focus on attaining price stability and maximum employment, in order to address financial stability concerns,” Ms. Yellen said in a speech at the International Monetary Fund. Warnings of new financial bubbles have arisen with regularity since the 2008 financial crisis ended an era of complacency. As the Fed and other central banks try to revive growth by encouraging risk-taking, critics have fretted that they will go too far. The Bank for International Settlements, in a report published on Sunday, warned that low rates were contributing to dangerous increases in global asset prices. Advertisement Fed officials, including Ms. Yellen, have generally played down these concerns. They acknowledge signs of excessive speculation in some areas of financial activity, but have said repeatedly that there is little indication of a threat to the economy. Advertisement At the same time, officials are debating what to do about future threats. Ms. Yellen and her predecessor, Ben S. Bernanke, both have underscored the Fed’s postcrisis view that maintaining financial stability is now a primary responsibility. Ms. Yellen said on Wednesday that the Fed was focused on strengthening regulation. In a discussion with Christine Lagarde, the I.M.F.’s managing director, Ms. Yellen expressed particular concern about so-called shadow banking, or financial firms like hedge funds that are not subject to many of the strictest regulations.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “That is going to be a huge challenge to which I don’t have a great answer,” she said. Ms. Yellen also acknowledged the limits of regulation, noting that new approaches remained untested. For example, a speculative bubble in commercial real estate could be addressed by tightening those underwriting standards. Regulators also are considering broad rules that would automatically constrain lending during periods of strong growth, and then loosen when the economy needed a boost. As a consequence, she said she remained open to the possibility of raising interest rates to pop bubbles. “I’ve not taken monetary policy totally off the table as a measure to be used when financial excesses are happening,” she said. Other Fed officials have argued that the central bank should place a greater weight on financial stability in setting monetary policy. Jeremy C. Stein, who recently left the Fed’s board, argued that raising interest rates could be a broadly effective response to excess speculation, deflating bubbles that regulators hadn’t even noticed. Several officials share Mr. Stein’s views, said Michael Feroli, chief United States economist at JPMorgan Chase. As a result, the debate “will likely continue to simmer in coming quarters.” Ms. Yellen, however, made clear that she would prefer to rely on regulation. Raising rates may curtail speculation, but its primary effect is to slow growth. “The potential cost, in terms of diminished macroeconomic performance, is likely to be too great to give financial stability risks a central role in monetary policy decisions, at least most of the time,” Ms. Yellen said. A version of this article appears in print on July 3, 2014, on Page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: Fed Chief Prefers Rules, Not Rates, to Pop Bubbles.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »