Advertisement Supported by By David Jolly PARIS — The European Central Bank left its monetary policy intact on Thursday, choosing to wait for the extraordinary measures it enacted a month ago to work their way through the economy before deciding whether additional action was needed to bolster growth and keep deflation at bay. “The key E.C.B. interest rates will remain at the current levels for an extended period of time,” Mario Draghi, the central bank president, said at a news conference in Frankfurt, citing the continuing outlook for low inflation. The decision, announced after the central bank’s Governing Council met in Frankfurt, had been widely expected after the bank unveiled initiatives last month to stimulate the economy, including imposing a negative interest rate on the deposits that lenders hold at the central bank and making more cheap loans available to banks. “It will simply take several more months before the impact of last month’s decisions can adequately be assessed,” Carsten Brzeski, an economist at ING Group in Brussels, wrote in a research note. The only surprise was in Mr. Draghi’s announcement that, as of January, the Governing Council would begin holding monetary policy meetings once every six weeks, instead of monthly, and that it would publish minutes of its meetings. Publication of the minutes signaled a concession to critics who had called for the bank to follow what had become a widespread practice aimed at increasing transparency in monetary policy. The United States Federal Reserve has since 2005 been publishing its minutes three weeks after each policy meeting. The change in schedule also brings the frequency of central bank meetings in line with that of the Fed, but Mr. Draghi said that was irrelevant. “We have no plans to synchronize with anyone,” he said.​ “The Governing Council decided that a monthly frequency was just too tight. That’s the reason.” Mr. Draghi also revealed details of the central bank’s new program to spur the credit market by providing cheap, four-year loans to banks in exchange for a commitment that the funds be lent to companies, instead of, for example, used to buy government bonds or other financial assets. A bank that failed to meet that condition would have to repay the loans early. The central bank hopes that supplying the loans will help ease the stark divide between the so-called core and periphery euro zone nations; Standard & Poor’s estimates that corporations in Spain currently pay about 1.5 percentage points more in interest on multiyear loans than do comparable German corporations — a punishing handicap in international competition. The first allocations under the program, called Targeted Longer-Term Refinancing Operations, will come in September and December, Mr. Draghi said, in amounts up to 7 percent of banks’ loan books, totaling around 400 billion euros, or $546 billion. Mr. Draghi said the total could ultimately reach as much as €1 trillion. “We want to see the impact of this program,” Mr. Draghi said. “The impact is going to be substantial.” While the central bank took no action on Thursday, Mr. Draghi said the market should not interpret that as a sign of complacency. “The E.C.B. cannot and should not act every month,” he said, but added: “The governing council is unanimous in its commitment to use also unconventional measures” to meet its goals. The bank on June 5 initiated a minus 0.1 percent interest rate on the deposits that banks park there, effectively charging them for sitting on cash. It also cut its main interest rate target to 0.15 percent from 0.25 percent. The moves “have relieved the immediate pressure for action,” Christian Schulz, an economist at Berenberg Bank in London, wrote in a research note before the meeting. “The E.C.B. has kept the door open for more easing, but will be less fussed by monthly inflation rate releases for a while.” The central bank’s inaction contrasted with that of the Swedish central bank, the Riksbank, which on Thursday cut its benchmark interest rate to 0.25 percent from 0.75 percent. The Riksbank cited its own battle with deflationary pressures for the move, noting that it had revised its 2014 forecast to show prices falling 0.1 percent, compared with an earlier forecast of a 0.2 percent increase. It also cited the strength on the foreign exchange market of the Swedish currency, the krona. The krona has remained strong as the Riksbank, concerned about high household debt in Sweden, held off longer than other central banks in bringing rates down nearer to zero. The European Central Bank’s announcement came just days after an official report showed that consumer prices in the 18-nation euro zone rose last month at a rate of just 0.5 percent, far below the central bank’s target of holding inflation at just under 2 percent. A separate report showed that new lending to the private sector had been declining for more than a year. Mr. Draghi vowed in July 2012 to do “whatever it takes” to save the euro, bringing a halt to the crisis that had driven sovereign borrowing costs to unsustainable levels in several countries and restoring calm to the euro zone. As a result of that verbal intervention, and some timely bond buying, Spain, Italy and Ireland are now paying interest on their 10-year debt that is not substantially different from that on comparable United States bonds. Despite that success, the European Central Bank has had to ease policy twice since November because of the threat of deflation. The condition of widespread falling prices has the potential to further depress growth and, most worryingly at a time when the bank is trying to prop up fragile lenders, to hobble banks and borrowers. The current “lowflation” is only partly a monetary phenomenon: With more than 25 million people out of work, and households and businesses working to reduce debt, slack demand is also holding prices in check. Economists expect the gross domestic product of the euro zone to have grown at an annual rate of a little above 1 percent in the second quarter, accelerating from the 0.7 percent growth rate of the first three months of 2014. The data will be released on Aug. 14. The central bank has become increasingly concerned about the strength of the euro, because the strong currency weakens inflationary pressures by making imports cheaper, even as it holds down the value of corporations’ overseas earnings. The euro weakened slightly after the central bank meeting, trading around $1.36, and the euro zone benchmark Euro Stoxx 50 index gained more than 1 percent. The currency’s weakness might have reflected expectations that a relatively strong jobs report in the United States would keep the Federal Reserve on track to raise rates before the European Central Bank, making dollar assets more attractive than those denominated in euros. Like the other big central banks, the European bank turned to ultralow interest rates after the financial crisis to keep financial institutions above water and to hold down borrowing costs for struggling corporations. Because most governments have abandoned fiscal stimulus, the other main option for affecting output, the responsibility for keeping economies afloat has fallen to central banks and the imperfect tool of monetary policy. The central bank has so far resisted the adoption of so-called quantitative easing employed by the Federal Reserve, the Bank of England and the Bank of Japan. In that approach, the other central banks have been buying bonds outright on a large scale, in effect converting debt securities into cash to grease the wheels of the financial system.   Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS