Advertisement By EDWARD WYATTJULY 29, 2010
 WASHINGTON — The Federal Trade Commission on Thursday announced restrictions on companies that purport to help borrowers get rid of crippling amounts of debt. The effort aims to address complaints about lenders that charge huge fees but fail to reduce the obligations of  customers in debt. The  rules, which will take effect in the fall, prohibit companies from charging a fee before they settle or reduce a customer’s credit card or unsecured debt. The rules also require that the companies set up dedicated accounts for debt relief payments by consumers and disclose how long the debt-reduction efforts will take, what they will cost and the potentially negative consequences that could occur. “Too many of these companies pick the last dollar out of consumers’ pocket and, far from leaving them better off, push them deeper into debt, even bankruptcy,” Jon Leibowitz,  chairman of the F.T.C., said in a statement announcing the  regulations. “This rule will stop companies who offer consumers false promises of reducing credit card debts by half or more in exchange for large, upfront fees,” he said. Advertisement Debt settlement programs  boomed  after  the housing market collapse, the recession and the rise in unemployment. As the industry has grown, so have the charges of unfair practices. Advertisement Attorneys general in more than 20 states have brought enforcement actions against debt-relief companies since 2004. According to comments filed with the F.T.C., the number of consumer complaints against companies in the industry more than doubled from 2007 to 2009. The leader of a trade group representing the debt-settlement industry said he believed the rules were unfair and would put a lot of companies out of business. “I think this is a victory for the big banks and a loss for consumers,” said David Leuthold,  the executive director of the Association of Settlement Companies. Credit card companies often will not settle a debt for less than is owed until a consumer has deposited the entire negotiated repayment in an independent account, Mr. Leuthold said. If the companies are not allowed to collect any fees before settlement, that leaves them providing services for months without compensation.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “Most companies will go out of business because of this,” he said. Consumer advocates generally applauded the rules but also said   loopholes  leave consumers open to abuse. Susan Grant,  the director of consumer protection for the Consumer Federation of America, said that because the regulations were amendments to the F.T.C.’s telemarketing sales rule, they  applied only to agreements struck as a result of telephone calls by debt-relief companies to consumers or consumers’ calls to a company in response to advertisements. Not covered, Ms. Grant said, are transactions that take place entirely online — where debt-relief companies often advertise — or as a result of a face-to-face meeting between a company representative and a consumer. Joel Winston,  the associate director of the division of financial practices at the F.T.C., said that while those exceptions did exist, the commission thought that nearly all of the fraudulent activity in the debt-relief industry involved telephone traffic. Even the commission is uncertain, however, about some situations. If, for example, a debt-laden consumer responds by e-mail to an online ad, then conducts a conversation with a debt-settlement company via Skype, which transmits voice and video over the Internet, it is not certain whether the transaction would be considered telemarketing. “But we certainly will be monitoring the business, and can still bring charges under general F.T.C. regulations,” Mr. Winston said. “I would hope that members of this industry would not try to evade the rules like that.” A version of this article appears in print on July 30, 2010, on Page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: New Restrictions Placed on Debt Settlement Companies.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »