My column this week is about Ameriprise, a company rich with history, though not always the good kind. It deserves a ton of credit for making financial planning central to its work with customers, but it has also run into plenty of trouble with regulators over the years. Every company of its size is bound to have a few bad apples pushing products in the wrong way. Still, I remain wary of any financial planning operation where so many advisers earn money from commissions and the parent organization is in the life insurance and annuity business. I still think that that you should work only with advisers who earn fees from money that you pay out of your own pocket or portfolio. That way, the adviser will not be tempted to recommend an investment that will bring in the most commission. And among the more than 10,000 Ameriprise advisers, there are some who work that way. For those of you who have had dealings with the rest of them, I’d be curious to hear how you have fared, or if you’re an adviser but would never work with Ameriprise for whatever reason. Current and former advisers are welcome to weigh in, too. 
			Personal finance features and news coverage from can now be found on the Your Money page.Read more… 
			What parents mean by “part-time” work, why the future of your Nook books is uncertain, free theater in the park (and parking lot) and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times.Read more… 
			How faith can affect mental health therapy, freshening up a kitchen for a home sale, creating your own personal weather station and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times.Read more… 
			Travel warnings are issued on Egypt, the Ford F-250 is now thieves’ favorite target, regulators crack down on abusive debt collection and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times.Read more… 
			A software glitch involving the new health care law may mean that some smokers won’t bear the full brunt of tobacco-user penalties that could have made their premiums much higher, at least for the first year.Read more… Advertisement