Irving H. Picard, the trustee who is liquidating Bernard L. Madoff‘s investment business, and his law firm asked a judge to approve $45 million in fees for four months’ work, a number that would bring their total fees in the case to $224 million. In a court filing on Wednesday, Mr. Picard said that Baker Hostetler, the law firm, billed $44.7 million in fees for the period from Feb. 1 to May 31. Mr. Picard said he personally billed about $600,000 in the four-month stretch. The fee application said that he intended to discount those fees by 10 percent. Mr. Picard’s fee request must be approved by Judge Burton R. Lifland, the bankruptcy judge overseeing the Madoff case. He has approved all fee requests thus far. The fees are paid out of money from the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, an industry-financed investor protection organization.  The fee request shows the steady, consistent stream of work that the Madoff Ponzi scheme is generating for Baker Hostetler. His prior fee application for the previous four months requested a payment of about $44 million. The one previous to that sought about $39 million. All told, the Madoff fraud has generated about $320 million in fees and expenses for law firms and accounting firms working on the
bankruptcy case through March of this year. Mr. Picard has earned about $3.6 million, according to a court filing. Although the Madoff fraud was exposed nearly three years ago, causing about $20 billion in cash losses and wiping out almost $65 billion in paper wealth, the clean-up process and legal battles associated with the case have not slowed down. Last month, the federal appeals court in Manhattan issued a favorable decision for Mr. Picard, ruling that his approach on how to calculate investor losses was “legal sound” and fundamentally fair. Mr. Picard also faces legal battles on several other fronts. He has sued a number of the large banks including JPMorgan Chase over their business dealings with Mr. Madoff, accusing them of being “willfully blind” to the fraud. He has also charged that the Wilpon and Katz families, owners the New York Mets baseball team and large Madoff victims, should have known that the business was a fraud. JPMorgan and the Mets owners are fighting the charges. In a hearing this past summer, Judge Jed S. Rakoff, a federal judge in Manhattan who was presiding over a Madoff trustee lawsuit against several bank defendants, questioned the fees piling up in the case. “I just keep reading in the papers how much is being paid to Picard,” Judge Rakoff said. Advertisement