Advertisement By NICOLA CLARKJULY 16, 2014
 LONDON — Thomas Enders, the chief executive of the Airbus Group, has not been shy in his public admiration for the speed and scale of innovation that has been achieved by American high-technology giants like Google, Facebook and SpaceX. But it is only recently that he has begun to consider such companies potential future aerospace partners. Even as Airbus and its American rival, Boeing, tallied up a fresh raft of orders for state-of-the-art airplanes at this week’s Farnborough International Air Show, near London, Mr. Enders said he was closely following the recent acquisitions of satellite and drone companies by deep-pocketed Silicon Valley firms. He is intent not only on learning how they integrate those activities into their businesses but also on considering the possibility of future collaborations. “What if we could put together the best and the brightest of our two industries and figure out what we might be able to do together?” Mr. Enders said in an interview on the sidelines of the Farnborough show, which ends Friday. “If our two worlds were not talking past each other, but actually talking to each other, it could be that out of that, we might come up with new business ideas.” Mr. Enders cited the recent forays by a number of blue-chip tech companies into satellites, drones and even rocket launchers. All, he said, indicate that companies that have until now focused mainly on providing Internet-based services and communications are encroaching, however tentatively, into sectors that have typically been the domain of Airbus, Boeing and other aerospace companies. Advertisement Google, for instance, recently purchased Titan Aerospace, a maker of high-altitude, solar-powered drones, for the purpose of expanding Internet coverage to remote areas. Facebook made a similar acquisition of a small British drone maker, Ascenta. Amazon, the Internet retailer, is pressing ahead with its ambition to use drones to deliver goods purchased online, and last week requested permission from the Federal Aviation Administration for a test. Advertisement “We have to recognize that the so-called digital industry is expanding into fields now that are adjacent to our core business or are already part of our core business,” Mr. Enders said, adding that the amount of financial firepower those companies were capable of risking on such ventures was “just mind-boggling.” One case in point: Elon Musk, the billionaire co-founder of PayPal, whose privately held firm Space Exploration Technologies, is already giving Airbus and other aerospace firms a run for their money in the space business, rapidly driving down costs for commercial satellite launches and emerging as a serious competitor to industry incumbents. “Five years ago, I don’t think anybody on our side took them very seriously,” Mr. Enders, a 55-year-old German, said of SpaceX and the South African-born Mr. Musk, who is 43.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Now Airbus is actively trying to emulate SpaceX’s leaner, more agile business model with a new space-launch joint venture announced last month with Safran of France, which aims to offer a more affordable European option for getting satellites into space. Mr. Enders credited Mr. Musk, whom he has never met, with giving the aerospace industry a competitive “wake-up call.” “We have been thinking for a long time that our competition will be a geographic one — from China, from India, Brazil and other places,” Mr. Enders said. “But all of a sudden we see there might be competition coming from a sector that we didn’t even have on our watch.” That said, Mr. Enders is inclined to see the challenge from SpaceX and others as an opportunity rather than a competitive threat. “I am really grateful for that external challenge,'’ he said, “because it gives a breath of fresh air to the European aerospace community.” Mr. Enders said it was still too early to propose any specific collaboration with America’s tech giants, but he hinted that Airbus was ready for dialogue. Advertisement “At this point, I’m not making overtures to anybody,” Mr. Enders said. “But it’s clearly time our industry allows itself to be more exposed to the digital world and the people that have changed not only communication but our lives over the last two decades.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »