Advertisement By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEYJULY 10, 2014
 The nation’s statehouses have lost more than one-third of the newspaper journalists devoted to covering legislative matters full time, according to a study released on Thursday morning by the Journalism Project at the Pew Research Center. The study, which surveyed all 50 statehouses, found a loss of 164 full-time newspaper reporters since 2003. The total number of full-time statehouse reporters dipped to roughly 300. The study defined these journalists as reporters who worked physically in the statehouses. At the same time, nontraditional news organizations added journalists at statehouses, including for-profit and nonprofit digital news organizations, ideologically driven publications and expensive trade newsletters catering to lobbyists. These outlets employ more than 120 full-time statehouse journalists. The study’s researchers said that the news outlets adding reporters typically offered their content to narrower audiences or were backed by partisan outlets. For example, these figures include journalists associated with organizations like the Alaska Budget Report, which charges $2,397 a year for a subscription. The Franklin Center for Government and Public Integrity, which identifies itself as supporting free-market principles, is a major financial backer of many journalists in statehouses. Mark Jurkowitz, associate director of the Journalism Project and an author of the study, noted that the decline in traditional journalism at statehouses raised fears among most subjects interviewed for the study. “In numerous conversations with journalists, legislative leaders and other experts, the one sentiment expressed again and again was concern about the impact of a perceived decline in mainstream media coverage,” Mr. Jurkowitz said. A version of this article appears in print on July 11, 2014, on Page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: Pew Study Finds a Sharp Drop in Reporters at Statehouses.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »