Advertisement Supported by By Jenny Anderson LONDON — Tesco, Britain’s biggest retailer — a grocer being squeezed by premium food purveyors and deep discounters — announced a management shake-up on Monday and warned that its profits would be lower than previously expected. Philip Clarke, a career Tesco executive who became chief in 2011, will be replaced by Dave Lewis, a 28-year veteran of Unilever who most recently ran its personal care division. Tesco said in a statement that market conditions were worse than expected and that sales for the first half of the year would be “somewhat below expectations” but provided no further guidance. Tesco, which controls about 29 percent of Britain’s grocery market, has struggled with eroding sales as it has tried to battle back from the country’s deep recession and a competitive onslaught. Premium grocers like Waitrose and Marks & Spencer have skimmed off shoppers willing to pay more for top-line brands and organic foods, while big discounters like Lidl and Aldi, two privately held German companies, have made major inroads in Britain. “There is a need for change,” said Clive Black, head of research at Shore Capital, a British stock brokerage. He said Mr. Clarke had succeeded in addressing some of Tesco’s structural problems, including better customer service and a broader range of products, but had failed to confront pricing pressure from discounters. “If you don’t have the right pricing file,” Mr. Black said, “you won’t get people in the door to appreciate your range, quality of product and service.” Sir Richard Broadbent, the chairman of Tesco’s board, said it was time for new management. “Having guided Tesco through a substantial repositioning in challenging markets,” Sir Richard said in a statement, “Philip Clarke agreed with the board that this is the appropriate moment to hand over to a new leader with fresh perspectives and a new profile.” Mr. Lewis is to join the board in October. Mr. Clarke will continue as chief executive until then, and work on the transition through the end of January. Mr. Clarke was dealt a tough hand when he took over at Tesco from Sir Terry Leahy, who was considered a retailing star, having overseen pretax profit growth to £3.4 billion at the end of 2010, from £750 million in 1997. But his focus on global expansion led him to neglect his home market, some analysts said, leaving the company unable to respond to competitive pressure and the effects of the recession that began in 2008. Mr. Clarke closed operations in the United States and Japan, and focused on refurbishing many of Tesco’s stores in Britain. In 2012, he issued the first profit warning for the company in 20 years. In 2013, the company reported its first decline in annual profit in 19 years. And Mr. Clarke referred to the first quarter of 2014 as the worst he had seen in his four decades in supermarkets, when same-store sales (called like-for-like sales in Britain) fell 3.7 percent. Meanwhile, the discount chains have moved aggressively to take market share. At the beginning of 2013, Tesco had a 30.1 percent market share according to Kantar Worldpanel, while Aldi had 3.8 percent and Lidl 3.0 percent. According to the most recent data, Tesco had 28.9 percent compared with 4.7 percent for Aldi and 3.6 percent for Lidl. “The discounters are unstoppable,” said Jaime Vasquez, European retail analyst from JP Morgan. The chains have more than doubled sales per square foot over the last four years, he noted, with a much lower cost base. Tesco is facing competition from its own sector as well. Ten years ago, Tesco was one percent more expensive than Asda, one of its main rivals, which is owned by Walmart. Today that figure is 5 percent, according to Mr. Vasquez. “You cannot have 28 percent market share and have this price gap with your main competitors, not to mention the discounters,” Mr. Vasquez said. Mr. Lewis comes with extensive experience at Unilever. He was chairman for Unilever in Britain and Ireland, president for the Americas and most recently global president for personal care. However, his lack of experience in British retailing was noted by many analysts. “He is taking on the biggest job in U.K. retail without ever having worked in U.K. retail,” said Natalie Berg, head of global research at PlanetRetail, a retail consultancy. The task Mr. Lewis faces, Ms. Berg noted, is significant. “The brand has become too diluted,” Ms. Berg said. “There is so much choice. They need a distinctive proposition, and they do not have one.”   Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS