Katinka Domotorffy, the head of Goldman Sachs‘s quantitative investment strategies group, will retire from the firm at the end of the year, according to a letter the bank’s asset management division sent to investors on Wednesday. Her position as head of the group, which oversees about $56 billion in mutual funds, hedge funds and institutional accounts, will be split into several roles. Goldman has appointed Armen Avanessians to head up the global quantitative business, while Ron Hua will take over as chief investment officer of the equity alpha business. Mr. Hua joined Goldman from PanAgora Asset Management. Two other Goldman executives, Bill Fallon and Don Mulvihill, will also oversee investment strategies within the group.  The Goldman group has been a hotbed of hedge fund talent, bolstering the careers of such executives  as Cliff Asness, who oversaw the Global Alpha strategy fund at the firm and now runs AQR Capital, as well as Mark Carhart, who runs Kepos Capital. The group has gained prominence as high-frequency trading, in which computer models execute lightning-fast trades, has become a common strategy among hedge funds. But the group has struggled with returns, as well as turnover. At its peak in 2007, Global Alpha ran about $12 billion, although that number has dwindled to about $1 billion now. The fund is also having a rough year, according to a person close to the firm, and is down about 12 percent so far for 2011. Ms. Domotorffy, who joined Goldman as a portfolio manager in 1998, became head of the quantitative investment strategies group in 2009, after Mr. Carhart and his colleague, Raymond Iwanowski, left the firm. A spokesman at Goldman Sachs confirmed the latest departure, but declined to comment on the fund’s performance. Goldman Sachs Letter to Clients(function() { var scribd = document.createElement("script"); scribd.type = "text/javascript"; scribd.async = true; scribd.src = "//www.scribd.com/javascripts/embed_code/inject.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(scribd, s); })(); Advertisement