8:54 p.m. | Updated  What a difference a few weeks can make. In early October, shares of Morgan Stanley dipped below $12 during the day, as the financial firm battled rumors about its exposure to the European sovereign debt crisis. But the company is slowly shaking off the speculation, addressing some concerns with better-than-expected earnings on Wednesday. The stock — which rose as much as 6 percent on the news before ending essentially flat at $16.64 — is now up more than 40 percent from its low earlier this month.  “Clearly, we are in a very dynamic environment and our journey is not done,” the bank’s chief executive. James P. Gorman, said in a conference call with analysts. “But the U.S. financial system in general, and Morgan Stanley in particular, has made far more progress than it is being given credit.” It is a marked change from a year ago. The company earned $2.15 billion in the third quarter, in contrast to a loss of $91 million a year ago. Despite the sharp drop in the stock market, it notched gains in core divisions like equity sales and wealth management In its results, Morgan Stanley moved to clarify its exposure to five countries at the center of the European debt crisis. It is less than some have feared, with just $2.11 billion in exposure, including hedges. But Morgan Stanley, like rivals, also got a major boost from one-time gains. The firm booked $3.4 billion on the falling value of the company’s debt. On a per share basis, the one-time gain accounted for 98 percent of the firm’s earnings. Howard Chen, an analyst at Credit Suisse, wrote in a note to investors that it was a “weak quarter, but not as bad as anticipated.”  Michael Mayo at Crédit Agricole Securities noted the “main news is that results were not worse than peers given inline declines in capital markets,” which were down sharply in the quarter. As with the rest of the industry, Morgan Stanley is trying to find its footing in a postfinancial crisis world, with a stricter regulatory regime and weaker growth prospects. With new rules forthcoming, the firm has exited high-margin businesses like proprietary trading. Instead, it is focusing on less risky groups like Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, the firm’s global wealth management division, which is a less capital-intensive business with the potential for steady profits. In the latest quarter, the unit posted net revenue of $3.26 billion this quarter, compared with $3.1 billion in the period a year earlier. Still, the business got hit by the market turmoil, even as the firm logged record inflows. The division had $1.6 trillion assets under management in the quarter, down from $1.7 trillion in the previous quarter. Third-quarter revenue in institutional securities, bolstered mainly by the one-time gain on the value of Morgan Stanley’s debt, increased 123 percent, to $6.45 billion. Asset management reported revenue of $215 million for the period, down 73 percent from the previous year on losses in firm investments. With the industry facing a more muted reality, Mr. Gorman told analysts that the firm intended to pay “those employees who are delivering value.” That is a theme that Wall Street chiefs have struck since last year, implying the best staff members would get competitive compensation while packages for the rest would fall.  So far this year, Morgan Stanley has set aside $12.69 billion to cover compensation and benefits, up 6 percent from year-ago levels. Advertisement