Advertisement 
                Political Economy             By                     
HUGO DIXON | REUTERS

JULY 14, 2014
 If Britain leaves the European Union, the main reason will probably be because people fear immigrants are overrunning the country. The best way of assuaging these concerns is to show how the free movement of people within the European Union benefits the economy and society over all, while acknowledging that some groups may be harmed and working hard to improve their lot. So far, David Cameron’s Conservative-led coalition has not done this effectively. The field has therefore been left open to the U.K. Independence Party, which wants to pull Britain out of the European Union, and which has cleverly fanned and exploited the native population’s fears about immigration. There are multiple concerns. One is that immigrants are taking British jobs. Another is that they are “scroungers,” coming to live off benefits. Yet more fears are that they are depressing wages (especially among the low-skilled), responsible for a crime wave, making it harder for the native population to find homes to live in and overloading schools, hospitals and other public services. Most of these concerns are untrue or exaggerated when looking at the country as a whole, as the government’s Migration Advisory Committee made clear in a report published last week. It focused on low-skilled immigration because that has been much more controversial than high-skilled migration. Advertisement Take jobs. The number of British-born people in low-skilled employment fell by 1.1 million from 1997 to 2013. That is matched by a 1.1 million rise in the number of people in low-skilled employment born outside Britain (not just in other European Union countries). Advertisement If one looked at just those statistics, one might think foreigners are taking British jobs. But the number of jobs is not fixed. In fact, it has grown sharply, by 3.3 million, in that period — mainly because a higher population generates more demand for goods and services. What is more, the growth has occurred in high-skilled jobs. Although the number of native people in low-skilled work fell by 1.1 million, the number in high-skilled positions rose by 2.2 million. That is generally a good thing. The committee’s report judged that Britain’s “flexible labor market has mainly served us well.” It also concluded that nationwide there was little impact from immigration on welfare claims, crime or use of education or health services. This complements other studies, which have shown among other things that the number of so-called welfare tourists is vanishingly small and that European Union immigrants pay more in taxes than the value of public goods and services they receive, unlike the native population. However, while the overall picture is positive, the new report highlights four specific problems. First, Britain is not equipping its less academically gifted young adults well to compete in the job market. That is partly because of government educational targets, which focus on pushing up average attainments at the expense of those at the bottom of the class, where basic math and literacy skills are low. It is also because many young Britons do not score well on “soft skills” such as flexibility, reliability, teamwork, a desire for continuous improvement and confidence. Employers often prefer foreign migrants.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. And the welfare system discourages Britons from taking temporary or seasonal work as well as from moving around the country. For all these reasons, there are too many young people who are “NEETs” — not in education, employment or training — and who are otherwise available for work (as opposed to looking after their own children, for example). Britain has around 600,000 of these, the vast majority of whom have low educational attainments. Advertisement Second, Britain is not doing nearly enough to enforce its employment legislation. Since 2007, there have been only nine prosecutions for not paying the minimum wage. At that rate, an average employer would have to wait one million years to face prosecution. Immigrant workers, who are often brought into the country by “gangmasters” and sometimes do not know their rights, are the main victims of this enforcement failure. But low-skilled natives also suffer indirectly because employers are more willing to turn to immigrants on the grounds that they are easier to exploit. Third, Britain is not building enough new homes. The shortage is particularly acute at the bottom of the market. Although European Union immigrants do not use publicly funded housing nearly as intensively as natives, they still make it harder for locals to find such homes. Finally, migrants are not evenly spread around the country. They are concentrated in a few areas, especially London, and this can create pinch points in the provision of local services like education and health care. What is striking about this list of problems is that the government could go a long way toward solving these issues if it applied itself effectively. If Britain continues to fail to fix these problems, the backlash against immigration in parts of the country may continue to rise. And the government will be partly to blame if the people ultimately vote to quit the European Union. Hugo Dixon is editor at large of Reuters News. A version of this article appears in print on July 14, 2014, in The International New York Times.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »