Advertisement Supported by Special Report: Aviation By Beth Gardiner LONDON — A decade into the social media era, many travelers routinely consult online reviews before choosing vacation destinations or booking hotel rooms. Now the power of peer opinion has taken to the skies too, with the rise of websites that allow passengers to post and read comments on airlines, airports and even individual seats on particular planes. As carriers squeeze more people into economy cabins and charge fees for amenities like extra legroom that used to be free, some people are using sites like SeatGuru, Seatmaestro, Airline Ratings and others to safeguard the quality of their flying experience. Before booking a flight or choosing a seat, they will read reviews of an airline’s food, get tips about where to find a little extra legroom and view photos of seats, entertainment consoles and power outlets. “Whether we’re booking a flight, whether we’re buying a washing machine, we’re going to have a quick read of what other people have to say,” said Peter Miller, spokesman for Skytrax, which operates the sites Airlinequality and Flatseats. It is “simply a quest for information,” he said. “Everybody is looking for ‘How do we get the best value?”’ The use of such sites is already beginning to expand beyond an original niche market of flight buffs and frequent business travelers and is likely to grow steadily more mainstream, many in the industry say. The list of review sites “keeps getting longer almost every day now,” said Stathis Kefallonitis, founder of the consulting firm branding.aero and a marketing professor at the State University of New York in Oswego. Many sites provide information that they gather themselves, like annotated seat maps, with reviews posted by passengers. Rapid changes in the on-board offerings of airlines and differences in the amenities that various carriers include in their ticket prices have left passengers unsure of what to expect, and hungry for accurate information, Mr. Miller said.  The growth of code-share arrangements meanwhile has meant that passengers increasingly book a ticket on one airline but end up flying a less familiar one. “Customers themselves are getting confused,” he said. “They want to look up, ‘What is Air China like, or Korean Air,’ or whatever we’re talking about.” “That is what is driving the majority of people,” he added. The range of detail and opinion available online is staggering. Food-focused sites like InflightFeed and AirplaneFood host reviews and pictures of meals and snacks.  Elsewhere, travelers offer opinions about flight attendants’ friendliness, assess the quality of airport lounges and report which seats lack windows or are placed on top of entertainment boxes that limit foot space. “Great seat!” Adam Easter wrote on Seatmaestro, describing his spot on a British Airways flight from Washington to London. “Plenty of legroom when seat in front of you is reclined.”  A reviewer identified as Nadya was less impressed with the same carrier’s London to Los Angeles route. “Very disappointed with the leg space in economy class,” she wrote on Seatmaestro. “We both have sore legs and its three days after the flight.” On Routehappy, a United Airlines passenger identified as Eric W., who flew from Newark, New Jersey, to Seattle during the Super Bowl in February, noted the lack of an on-board Internet connection, but said the pilot “was extremely cool to connect an AM radio broadcast of the game with Channel 9 on the audio system. Huge points for that!” Mitchell Spearman, a fund-raiser for Occidental College in Los Angeles who flies at least 120,000 miles a year for work, said he never gets on board without checking SeatGuru, particularly since his usual carrier, US Airways, merged with American Airlines, leaving him often on unfamiliar planes. Seat “2C on US Air could be completely different on a 757 than 2C on American,” he said. Particularly important to him is having access to an electrical outlet. “That makes the difference for a three-hour flight to be productive or for it to be a nap,” he said, adding that he even looks up the configuration of the outlet so he knows which charger to bring.  Before booking a recent Miami-to-Los Angeles trip, Mr. Spearman said he had learned that one flight option would put him on a narrow-body plane, while another would offer him a wide-bodied Boeing 777. “After reading the reviews, I realized it would be far better to wait two hours” and take the bigger, more comfortable aircraft, he said. “There is a cohort of airplane warriors that literally have their offices in the skies,” Mr. Spearman said. “They want to know what is being offered before they book the ticket.” Routehappy focuses on helping passengers do exactly that, rating options with a “happiness score” based on seat space, on-board entertainment and other factors. John Walton, the company’s director of data, said that many fliers also used it to help them decide whether it would be worth paying for an upgrade to get access to an exit-row or premium economy seat. “The meals could run out, the staff could be very rude, the flight could be late, but choosing the aircraft as best you can or the seat as best as you can is in your control,” said Andrew Wong, regional director at SeatGuru and its parent company, TripAdvisor. SeatGuru, Mr. Wong said, gets about 2.5 million unique visitors each month and has collected more than 50,000 comments since it began in 2001. The airlines themselves have started to recognize the benefits of offering passengers more details before they fly, said Jason Clampet, co-founder of Skift, a travel news website based in New York. “They see that the more information we give you about the seat, the more we can sell you,” he said. Robert Ontell, a lawyer in Manhattan, said that he checked SeatGuru or similar sites just about every time he flies, but that he found them less useful than they were a few years ago, because the most comfortable seats were now reserved for passengers who choose to pay extra. Mr. Ontell also said he did not think airline review sites were likely to become as widely used as those that cover hotels, because passengers often have little choice of which carrier to fly. He prioritizes price, schedule and frequent flier miles over comfort and service when buying a ticket, he said, although he makes an effort to choose a good seat afterwards. That is true for many economy travelers, Mr. Kefallonitis said. Still, he expected flight review sites’ growth to continue. “They’re going to end up reviewing the entire journey,” he said, “from the booking site online to getting your luggage at your destination.” As with online reviews of other products, Mr. Kefallonitis said, he worries about how accurate comments are, and whether sites, some of which accept advertisements from airlines, are trustworthy. What is more, he added, passengers have to be willing to put in the effort to make them useful. “You really have to have the time and the patience to do this,” said Raphael Farkas, a frequent traveler based in Montreal who scours sites like FlyerTalk every time he buys a plane ticket. “Or you have to be crazy, like I am.”     Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS