8:36 p.m. | Updated  Want to buy a piece of the Empire State Building? Interested investors are one step closer. The Malkin family disclosed plans to create a publicly traded real estate company that would include the 102-story skyscraper at Fifth Avenue and 34th Street, according to papers filed Tuesday with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The plans were first reported in April. Two other buildings controlled by Anthony E. Malkin and his father, Peter L. Malkin — 1 Grand Central Place, a 55-story, 1.3-million-square-foot building across 42nd Street from Grand Central Terminal, and a 26-story building at 250 West 57th Street — would be part of the publicly traded real estate company. The unusual S.E.C. filings were devoid of specific financial information but said that more detailed information was expected in about three months, setting the stage for an initial public offering of stock. Goldman Sachs is expected to be the lead underwriter on the deal, according to a person with direct knowledge of the potential offering who requested anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss it publicly. A prominent I.P.O. of a company built with bricks and mortar would stand in stark contrast to the spate of Internet company stock offerings that have dominated headlines. After several tech I.P.O.’s this year, including those of Groupon and LinkedIn, the market is looking to an offering by Facebook sometime in 2012. The I.P.O. would clean up the complex ownership structure of the Empire State Building and the other Malkin family assets. Each of the buildings that would be placed into the real estate company has separate owners with multiple partners, a legacy of the real estate syndication model pioneered by Lawrence A. Wien, Peter Malkin’s father-in-law, and Harry B. Helmsley. As a result, the Malkins have to go through the painstaking process of gaining approval for the deal from the various buildings’ investors and then allocating the shares in the new company. If the deal was consummated, the Malkin’s holdings would be converted into a real estate investment trust, a common form of public ownership for real estate assets. After gaining control of both the Empire State Building and the land underneath it about five years ago, the Malkins have spent more than a half-billion dollars renovating the landmark, restoring its lobby to its original Art Deco grandeur and more than doubling the rents. Its 6,514 windows have been replaced, transforming the 1930s-era office tower into one of New York’s most energy-efficient office buildings. The name of the new company is not known, but a person briefed on the matter said that its name would refer to the Empire State Building, a branding move that the owners hope will attract investors hoping to own a stake in one of the world’s most celebrated skyscrapers. It is unclear at this point what the color of the tower’s lighting would be on the evening of its I.P.O., if that day should come. But most people expect it to be green, said a person briefed on the deal. Advertisement