Transatlantic Holdings said on Monday that Berkshire Hathaway‘s takeover bid for the reinsurer remains $3.25 billion in cash, ensuring that the two companies will not strike a deal. In a letter sent on Friday to Transatlantic, Berkshire’s head of reinsurance, Ajit Jain, wrote that the conglomerate’s National Indemnity unit would not raise its offer beyond its current $52-a-share level. The offer is valid until the close of business on Monday. The unsurprising news means the end of yet another merger opportunity for Transatlantic. Last Friday, the company canceled its proposed merger with Allied World Assurance, as shareholder opposition mounted.  The only bidder that remains is Validus Holdings, which is pursuing a hostile stock-and-cash bid that is currently worth $2.96 billion, or $47.41 a share. Validus is also seeking to replace Transatlantic’s board, as part of an effort to force its target to the negotiating table. Transatlantic said in a statement that Berkshire’s “opportunistic” bid remains well below the company’s book value, which was $69 to $70 as of the end of the reinsurer’s third quarter. Transatlantic added that Berkshire had not shown any particular interest in conducting more due diligence, which could have led to a higher offer. “The Transatlantic board of directors believes that selling Transatlantic for cash at the substantial discount to book value represented by the National Indemnity proposal simply would not deliver fair value to its stockholders,” the company said in its statement. Transatlantic indicated on Friday that it was willing to entertain other deal proposals. As a concession to one of Validus’s main concerns — that previous conditions to starting negotiations were too onerous — Transatlantic is willing to lower the hurdles for deal talks, according to people briefed on the matter. That would include shortening the length of time that Validus would be prohibited from buying additional Transatlantic shares to less than two years. Advertisement