The Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group said on Tuesday that neither Hertz Global Holdings nor anyone else had submitted a buyout offer that met its conditions by a Monday deadline, and the company said it was no longer pursuing a sale. In August, Dollar Thrifty, the fourth-largest car rental company in the United States, asked bidders, including the two biggest rental companies, Hertz and the Avis Budget Group, to submit their “best and final offers” that would address the antitrust regulatory risk of a transaction.  That call followed more than a year of takeover efforts: For months, Hertz and Avis had battled in a bidding war. Avis won the war only to run into a standstill with regulators, allowing Hertz to return to the fray with an offer of $1.91 billion, higher than the $1.55 billion bid by Avis. Avis announced on Sept. 14 that it was withdrawing from the bidding, leaving Hertz with an open field.  But in the statement on Tuesday, Dollar Thrifty’s chief executive, Scott L. Thompson, said: “While Hertz’s May 2011 exchange offer remains outstanding, and on Oct. 7, 2011, Hertz’s C.E.O. called me personally to reaffirm their commitment to pursuing the acquisition of Dollar Thrifty, the fact remains that they have not made a proposal that addresses our board’s requirements. Having received no acceptable offer after conducting an unprecedentedly open process with clearly articulated requirements, it is time for us to move forward on a standalone basis.” Still, Dollar Thrifty’s announcement has not deterred Hertz, which has argued that the October deadline did not matter since it was awaiting antitrust approval from the Federal Trade Commission for its bid.  “Hertz remains interested in acquiring Dollar Thrifty and continues to pursue an F.T.C. consent decree,” a Hertz spokesman said in a statement. Dollar Thrifty’s standalone plan includes a buyback of as much as $400 million of its stock, which the company confirmed on Tuesday.  JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs are acting as financial advisers to Dollar Thrifty, and Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton is its legal adviser. Advertisement