Advertisement Supported by By Reuters TOKYO — The unemployment rate in Japan fell to a 16-year low in May, government data showed on Friday, suggesting that the economy would rebound in the third quarter from a sales tax increase and consequent slump in consumer spending. The jobless rate in Japan — the world’s third-largest economy, after those of the United States and China — fell to 3.5 percent. That is the lowest level since 1997 and that which the Japanese central bank says is near full employment. The jobless rate was 3.6 percent in April. At the same time, the availability of jobs rose to its highest level since 1992, which is encouraging news for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe as he tries to cement a recovery after two decades of stagnation. The strong employment numbers were published alongside other data on Friday showing that the core consumer price index, which includes oil products but excludes the volatile prices of fresh food, rose 3.4 percent in the year to May, matching the median forecast of economists surveyed by Reuters. The sales tax increase pushed up prices across the board for the fastest rise since April 1982. Excluding the tax increase, core consumer inflation stood at 1.4 percent, slower than the 1.5 percent annual increase in the previous month, mainly because of the fading effects of the weak yen and a rise last year in electricity bills. The slight decrease was in line with the Japanese central bank’s projection that price gains would slow for a few months before accelerating again late this year. The Bank of Japan estimated that the sales tax increase — it rose to 8 percent from 5 percent on April 1 — would add 1.7 percentage points to annual consumer inflation in April and two percentage points from May onward. The central bank has also said that Japan is on track to meet its 2 percent inflation target next year, although it projects that consumer inflation will hover just above 1 percent for several months. Japan’s household spending fell 8 percent in the year to May, the government said Friday, four times the drop projected in a median market forecast and more than the 4.6 percent decline in April. The tumble mainly reflected a pulling back in spending on housing, cars and household appliances, all of which underwent a surge in demand before the sales tax increase. Households spent more on items like television sets, personal computers and clothing in May. Spending on eating out also stopped falling. “The decline in household spending is too large to ignore, but if you exclude auto sales, there are signs that spending is bottoming out,” said Hiroshi Miyazaki, a senior economist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities. “It may take a little longer for spending to recover,” he added, “but there’s no need to turn pessimistic on the economy.” Analysts say they expect the economy to contract in the second quarter. Weak spending could make the contraction worse, they say, although the strong job market and an expected increase in summer bonus payments will underpin spending. “A contraction in the second quarter is a certainty, but the job market improvements are positive for the economy,” said Yoshiki Shinke, the chief economist at the Dai-ichi Life Research Institute. The data are unlikely to change dominant market expectations that the central bank will hold off on further monetary stimulus for the rest of this year, analysts said, and the central bank has signaled that it sees no immediate need to expand the already huge stimulus program deployed in April 2013. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS