Drafts of the proposed Volcker Rule, implementing Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act, have begun circulating in advance of a vote by the federal agencies to issue the proposal. The Volcker Rule would ban many forms of proprietary trading by banks and would strictly limit their investments in private equity and hedge funds. Among the many unanswered questions of the Volcker Rule was its application and effect on non-American banks that are subject to it by virtue of their branches or subsidiaries in the United States. Most observers had expected that the prohibitions would apply to American banks worldwide, but would apply only to the activities in the United States of non-American banks.  The draft rule blows this expectation out of the water and greatly expands the reach of this United States law into many other jurisdictions. Section 619 contains an exception from the prohibition on proprietary trading for trades done “solely outside of the United States.”  The draft rule interprets this phrase by looking at four factors, three of which contain major landmines for non-American banks.  First, the draft rule would require that no party to a trade be a “resident” of the United States.  “Resident” is then defined by eight subsections, which appear to include foreign organized subsidiaries of American companies.   So, if a German bank wants to trade from Frankfurt with Wal-Mart Germany, a subsidiary of the American company, that trade would be subject to the Volcker Rule restrictions.  It is safe to say that no reasonable observer would have expected that result. Second, the draft rule would subject to the Volcker Rule restrictions any trade in which a person located in the United States is “directly involved.”  This interpretation would cause non-American banks that manage, say, their Latin American business from the United States to move such business to avoid application of the Volcker Rule to trades done between their non-American headquarters and clients in Sao Paulo.  Again, it is hard to recognize how such a result will decrease the risk to American banks, American offices of non-American banks or the United States financial system.  It is easy, however, to see that non-American banks will transfer jobs outside of the United States in order to avoid the issue. Third, the draft rule would state that in order to be outside the United States, a trade must be “executed wholly” outside the United States.  “Executed” is not defined by the draft rule and could mean any number of things.  It could be limited to the execution of the final documents, e.g. signing.  But more likely it could mean all steps necessary to execute a transaction, as in using an American stock exchange or clearing corporation, transferring payment through an American payment system or correspondent bank, asking the Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation to register new ownership of a security or many other ways in which the United States financial system would be involved in a non-American transaction.  In essence, no trade anywhere in the world could be done involving a share listed on the New York Stock Exchange without subjecting the trade to the draft Volcker Rule’s restrictions. Finally, even if a non-American bank is successful in avoiding the traps listed above, that bank will still inherit a tremendous ongoing compliance burden necessary to show the federal regulators that each and every trade complies.  Compliance, reporting, internal controls and certifications all carry costs for these banks, and these costs will be borne by clients, customer and shareholders. Douglas Landy is a banking partner in the New York office of Allen & Overy and head of the United States financial services regulatory practice.
 Advertisement