Advertisement 
                Frequent Flier             By                     
CRISTINA MARIANI-MAY

JULY 14, 2014
 I JOINED my family’s company, Banfi Vintners, in 1993 after I graduated from Georgetown. We’re wine importers based in Old Brookville, Long Island. My first job with the company was in marketing and events so I traveled around the country to meet with sales teams. Now one of my main responsibilities as a co-C.E.O. is managing our operations in Italy. I still do a lot of events since I’m responsible for getting our message out to the public. Wine is very personal, rooted in history, culture and romance. When people choose a wine, it’s based on more than price and packaging. There has to be a connection, and that’s my job. I’m not a nervous flier. I don’t get on a plane to work. I watch a movie or read a book. I talk to people all day, so I’m not a big talker on flights. But if someone starts a conversation, I’ll chat. When people find out I’m in the wine business, they always have questions. No one wants to talk about the science behind winemaking. They want to hear about being a working mother and traveling, or how my family got started in the business. There are so many great wines, it can be confusing for people. I think picking a cereal is hard, so I’ll help when I can. A lot of times the attendants want to know more about the wine they are serving. It doesn’t matter if it’s not my wine, I’ll tell them about the history of the product. Recently, I was on a Delta flight and I started chatting with the woman next to me. All of a sudden the woman did a double take when she realized I was the same woman whose face was on her in-flight screen talking about wine. It was funny, but awkward. But not quite as awkward as my flight home from the Chicago Marathon. When I travel I miss my family, and all I wanted to do was get home. I completed the race in 3:24, which was my fastest time, and I almost immediately flagged down a cab to get to the airport. My hair was matted, and I was still sweating. I did have my medal around my neck, so the poor man who was sitting next to me on the flight was understanding, though I’m sure he would have moved had there been another seat. I reeked. Several years ago, I had a seatmate who helped me learn to enjoy the journey, no matter what happens. I was rushing to get to a flight and by the time I made it on board I was clearly frazzled. The passenger next to me asked me if I wanted to listen to a poem narrated by his “friend.” He caught me off guard, but I took him up on the offer and borrowed his headphones.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The next thing I knew I was swept away by a voice that sounded remarkably like Sean Connery reciting a poem called “Ithaca” by Constantine P. Cavafy. It was the most beautiful thing I ever heard, and I remember a line that basically said to arrive someplace may be the ultimate goal, but you shouldn’t hurry the voyage. It turns out that Mr. Connery was a friend of my seatmate and I was one of the first people to hear the recording. I wasn’t frazzled anymore. Since then I found it on YouTube, set to music by Vangelis. Whenever I’m feeling stressed because a plane is late or things just aren’t going my way, I’ll listen to the poem again. It really helps keep things in perspective when I’m traveling, as does a glass of wine. As told to Joan Raymond. Email: joan.raymond@nytimes.com Q. How often do you fly for business? A. About every other week, a mix of domestic and international. Q. What’s your least-favorite airport? A. Beijing Capital International Airport. There are way too many canceled flights. Q. Of all the places you’ve been, what’s the best? A. Tuscany. There’s nothing as lovely as sitting outside, looking up at a castle and out over rolling hills, while sharing a bottle of wine with friends and family. Q. What’s your secret airport vice? A. A foot massage and a glass of wine. A version of this article appears in print on July 15, 2014, on Page B6 of the New York edition with the headline: Awkward Moments, and One Important One.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »