Throughout his eight-year tenure as the AMR Corporation‘s chief executive, Gerard J. Arpey had consistently emphasized one strategic point: He would not put the airline into bankruptcy. But by late last week, when it became clear that AMR, the parent of American Airlines, would need to seek Chapter 11 protection, Mr. Arpey decided that he would rather retire, a person briefed on the matter told DealBook. Alongside its announcement to file for bankruptcy on Tuesday, AMR said that Mr. Arpey had stepped down and would be succeeded by the company’s president, Thomas Horton.  A 29-year veteran of AMR who joined as a financial analyst, Mr. Arpey became the company’s chief executive in 2003 and its chairman in 2004. At the time, the airline industry was besieged by change, including the post-Sept. 11 travel slump and the growth of low-cost airlines. Other legacy airlines, beginning with the UAL Corporation’s United Airlines, had begun filing for bankruptcy protection to help shed costs and make themselves more competitive. But Mr. Arpey emphasized repeatedly that AMR could turn itself around without resorting to Chapter 11, a process that would likely harm employees’ pensions and other benefits. Yet over recent weeks, AMR found itself in an increasingly difficult position, confronted by economic uncertainty, the potential for higher fuel costs and a credit rating downgrade by Standard & Poor’s two weeks ago. Over that time, AMR’s board gradually came to the conclusion that its financial situation was untenable, and that it needed to consider bankruptcy, people briefed on the matter said. But the board still wanted Mr. Arpey to remain at the company in some leadership capacity, and on multiple occasions over the last few weeks directors and Mr. Horton asked him to stay, one of these people said. By late last week, Mr. Arpey decided that he would leave. “Both the board and Tom Horton throughout this process asked Gerard Arpey to stay on,” Thomas A. Roberts, an outside lawyer for AMR’s board, said. “This was a decision that Gerard made himself because the company was turning in a new direction.” Despite his long tenure as AMR’s chief executive, however, Mr. Arpey is not expected to leave with a big payout. Under the terms of his contract, he will not receive any severance, according to the research firm Equilar. And with AMR skirting $0.35 a share right now, his stock holdings are essentially worthless. Mr. Arpey won’t be taking much of a break. Shortly after AMR announced that it had filed for bankruptcy, the Emerald Creek Group announced that it had hired him as a partner who will lead the private equity firm alongside its founder, Lawrence W. Kellner, a former Continental Airlines chief executive. “I have known Gerard for many years, and watched with admiration as he led American Airlines, with steadfast integrity and fortitude, through the most challenging decade in the history of the airline industry,” Mr. Kellner said in a statement.   Advertisement