8:09 p.m. | Updated  A sluggish domestic economy and a debt crisis in Europe continue to create problems in the nation’s financial hub, as Wall Street firms prepare to cut thousands of jobs in New York City. Nearly 10,000 workers in the securities industry in New York could lose their jobs through the end of next year, according to a report issued Tuesday by the state comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli, bringing the total cuts for New York in the sector to 32,000 since January 2008. “The securities industry had a strong start to 2011, but its prospects have cooled considerably for the second half of this year,” Mr. DiNapoli said in a statement. “It now seems likely that profits will fall sharply, job losses will continue and bonuses will be smaller than last year.” The report, which covers all member firms of the New York Stock Exchange, also said pretax profits earned by securities firms in the first half of 2011 slipped to $12.6 billion, a decline of 10.8 percent from the same period a year earlier. It said that while revenue at securities firms grew by 12.5 percent during the period, expenses made a bigger jump, rising 18.7 percent over the year-ago period. Despite job cuts and lagging profits at their firms, Wall Street employees who remain employed are doing well. The average salary of a worker in the industry in New York jumped to $361,330 in 2010, a 16 percent increase over the average last year, according to the report. That is more than five times the average private sector salary in New York, which stands at $66,120. Cash bonuses, which can account for a large portion of a financial employee’s annual income, are expected to fall in 2011, though the comptroller’s report did not predict the amount of the decline. In 2010, cash bonuses totaled an estimated $20.8 billion. It is a tumultuous time for the city’s securities industry, which includes banks like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley as well as smaller brokerage firms and research groups. For nearly a month, a phalanx of protesters from the Occupy Wall Street movement has been camped out in Zuccotti Park in Lower Manhattan, demanding investigations of bank executives whose behavior they feel spurred the financial crisis. On Tuesday, protesters marched to the homes of corporate executives including Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorganChase, to protest corporate greed and rising income inequality. Regulatory changes have also taken a toll on Wall Street. An early version of the Volcker rule, a curb on certain types of trading that would reduce the amount of risk taken on by large firms, was released in draft form Tuesday. In a report issued this week, Moody’s said the Volcker Rule, if put in place in its current form, would be “likely to diminish the flexibility and profitability” of the largest United States banks. Anticipating tough times ahead, banks have already begun battening down the hatches. Bank of America, saddled by bad mortgage assets and a flood of legal troubles, announced last month that it planned to cut 30,000 jobs globally in the next few years, and eliminate $5 billion in annual costs by 2014. Credit Suisse, Barclays Capital, Goldman Sachs and other large banks have also announced plans to cut jobs and expenses. “I think it’s reasonable to expect a slow patch,” said Chris Kotowski, a banking analyst with Oppenheimer. “People should plan on that, personally and professionally, and city officials should plan on that in terms of their budgeting.” Wall Street’s struggles will most likely be reflected in New York City’s tax revenue, as well as in the revenues of nonfinancial businesses, like high-end real estate firms and expensive restaurants, which depend on a steady flow of well-off customers. The comptroller’s report estimates that for every job lost on Wall Street, two are lost in the city in other industries, and one additional job is lost elsewhere in the state.  “These developments will have a rippling effect through the economy and adversely impact state and city tax collections,” Mr. DiNapoli said in the statement. “As we know, when Wall Street slows, New York City and New York State’s budgets feel the impact and that is a concern.”  A further glimpse into the financial health of the industry will come this week, when Wall Street’s largest banks begin to release their third-quarter earnings. Many analysts expect the largest banks to post smaller profits than last quarter, and some are even predicting that Goldman Sachs, once the most profitable bank on Wall Street, will post a loss. “It’s entirely possible,” Mr. Kotowski said of the continued problems anticipated by the comptroller’s report. “It can also all turn on a dime.” Advertisement