In his third-quarter letter to investors, John A. Paulson, the billionaire founder of Paulson & Company, apologized yet again for his hedge fund’s disastrous slide this year.  He noted that 2011 had been the worst in his firm’s nearly two-decade history, with the Advantage Plus fund (a de-facto misery index for the firm) down 45 percent through the end of October. “We have learned from the 2011 experience and are committed to returning investors to their high-water marks and to producing above average returns for the long term,” Mr. Paulson wrote in his letter. But those above-average returns, however, may have to start next month. The Advantage Plus fund is now down 49.6 percent as of last Friday, according to returns sent to investors Tuesday, the lowest point all year. To reclaim losses in the fund, Mr. Paulson would have to make investment gains of 100 percent or more. The year has been quite a reversal for Mr. Paulson, who rose to fame in 2007 with an extremely lucrative bet against the subprime mortgage market. After earning $4 billion personally from the bet, he became an investing celebrity, and the wealthy flocked to hand their money to him. Just about everything has gone wrong for Mr. Paulson this year. He was a major investor in Sino-Forest, a Chinese company accused of accounting fraud, a position that lost a half-billion dollars. Huge bets on financial firms battered his performance as bank shares suffered at the hands of skittish investors. And he reduced his risk just before the stock market mounted a recovery, which limited the amount of money he was able to make. But even as his hedge fund bleeds money, investors have so far stuck by Mr. Paulson. Last month, when the window opened for many to withdraw their cash, they chose not to. Indeed, some threw more cash into the hedge funds, convinced that Mr. Paulson would recover the losses.  And while assets have fallen thanks to the weak performance, Paulson & Company has not lost its touch for flair. Two weeks ago, the firm held the first day of its annual investor conference at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. Investors wandered through the entrance hall and the adjacent exhibit centered around Egypt. An orchestra played by the Temple of Dendur as investors sipped cocktails, according to people who attended the event. Advertisement