Advertisement By STANLEY REEDJULY 11, 2014
 LONDON — The new chief executive of Eni, the Italian energy giant, has put himself on a collision course with workers and possibly the Italian government with a plan to close much of the company’s unprofitable refinery network in Italy. Claudio Descalzi, who was named chief executive in May, has told union leaders that the refineries most likely to be closed are those at Gela in Sicily, Taranto in the Puglia region, and Livorno in Tuscany, according to local news reports. Together they account for about 40 percent of Eni’s refining capacity in Italy and employ more than 1,500 people. Beside taking on the unions, Mr. Descalzi must secure the approval of the body that appointed him, the Italian government, which owns a 30 percent controlling stake in Eni. Union leaders were quick to condemn Mr. Descalzi’s plans. “Eni’s strategy could cripple the refinery sector,” said Luigi Ulgiati, secretary general of the chemical workers’ division of the General Labor Union, known as the U.G.L. for its initials in Italian, according to the Italian news agency ANSA. “The government must step in because we risk de-industrializing the country and creating mass unemployment in the name of debatable notions of efficiency.” Advertisement According to local news reports, workers at the Gela refinery have staged protests, including the seizure on Wednesday of a terminal that receives natural gas from Libya. Advertisement But some financial analysts say that Mr. Descalzi’s proposal is long overdue, one that should be emulated by other European energy companies. Mr. Descalzi “may emerge as a male Italian version of Margaret Thatcher by going up against the unions,” analysts at Bernstein Research wrote in a note to clients on Thursday.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Eni’s refineries are an unwanted legacy for a company that over the past few years has been shifting to the more lucrative business of finding and producing oil and natural gas. Mr. Descalzi led Eni’s exploration and production unit under his predecessor as chief executive, Paolo Scaroni, when the company made large discoveries off Mozambique and Norway, among other places. With demand for petroleum products falling, the Eni unit that refines crude oil has lost an average of more than 100 million euros, or about $136 million, each quarter since 2009. The marketing side of the business is profitable, partly offsetting the losses. Those losses are thought to have amounted to €800 million last year alone and are likely to continue. Demand for refined products in Italy is continuing to fall, and Eni’s refineries are not as efficient as those of rivals, according to Bernstein. Eni’s competitors face many of the same pressures. European refiners are being squeezed by weak economies; competition from United States refiners, which have access to cheaper oil and gas from shale; and new, more efficient refineries in the Middle East and Asia. Industry executives and analysts agree that Europe has too much capacity, but it is politically difficult to shut refineries and lay off workers, often in regions that are already hurting from declines in other industries. So far, the protests against Mr. Descalzi’s plans have been relatively minor. Eni may try to appease the affected workers by offering them jobs elsewhere in the company, and by converting refinery sites to logistics depots or to serve other uses. A refinery at Venice, for example, has already been converted to process biofuels. A version of this article appears in print on July 12, 2014, on Page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: Chief of Struggling Eni Takes On Italy’s Unions.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »