The American International Group is considering an initial public offering of its giant aircraft leasing business that could be held later this year, a person briefed on the matter told DealBook on Monday. Bankers have been approaching A.I.G. in recent weeks about a spinoff of the unit, the International Lease Finance Corporation, this person added. Such discussions are not new to A.I.G.: The insurer has considered an offering or sale of the business for years.  Details of such an offering, including the size and timing, have yet to be determined and will depend largely on market conditions, this person said. A.I.G.’s own stock offering in May, which raised $8.7 billion and cut the government’s stake in the insurer, was weighed down by uncertainty in the markets. A stock offering of International Lease Finance would be the latest step in A.I.G.’s continuing efforts to repay its government bailout. The company has already sold or spun off a number of major businesses, including international life insurance arms and a consumer finance unit.  But International Lease Finance has long been regarded as one of A.I.G.’s crown jewels. The A.I.G. chief executive, Robert H. Benmosche, has made no secret of his willingness to part with the unit at the right price. While International Lease Finance had been under pressure during the financial crisis, bowed by a significant debt load, it has since rebounded. Last year, it repaid nearly $6 billion worth of loans from the government and private lenders. The company has also continued to win new business, entering into 114 lease commitments this year. Selling off part of International Lease Finance in an offering would make a significant dent in the $53 billion that A.I.G. still owes the Treasury Department. A.I.G. plans to repay that money by selling more shares in itself — reducing the government’s stake in the company below the current level of about 77 percent — and more asset sales. Spokesmen for A.I.G. and the Treasury Department declined to comment. News of A.I.G.’s plans was reported earlier by The Wall Street Journal online. Advertisement