Advertisement Supported by By Nicola Clark The business battle between Boeing and Airbus traditionally dominates the Farnborough International Airshow. But this weeklong event, which starts on Monday in Hampshire, England, is also a showcase for some of the world’s most sophisticated flying weaponry, which perform dazzling displays in the hope of luring prospective government clients. That includes the expected international air show debut of the F-35, or Joint Strike Fighter. Financed by the United States and Britain, the F-35, built by Lockheed Martin, is one of the world’s most ambitious weapons programs, with estimated development costs of around $400 billion. With government deficits running high, military budgets in the United States and Europe remain constrained by political pressures. And yet, recent political tensions in the Middle East and Asia are bringing security concerns to the fore in those regions, focusing the attention of their cash-rich militaries on a range of new manned and unmanned aerial systems. At the same time, tensions over Western sanctions against Moscow have led to a smaller-than-usual turnout by Russian manufacturers and the absence of typical crowd-pleasers like the Sukhoi Su-35 fighter from the flyover roster. While no major military orders are expected to emerge from the show, the American industry’s presence is expected to be heftier than it was at last year’s Paris Air Show, when a deadlock over the United States government’s debt ceiling set off billions of dollars in spending cuts and led many American contractors to stay home or send only modest-size delegations. A number of American-made planes will be presented at Farnborough, including the P-8A Poseidon surveillance plane from Boeing; it was recently deployed to the southern Indian Ocean to search for the missing Malaysia Airlines jet. But it is the F-35 that is expected to dominate the industry’s attention, either by its presence or its absence. An F-35 engine fire on an air base runway in Florida last month prompted the Pentagon last week to temporarily ground its entire training fleet of 97 F-35 fighters. A continuing investigation is expected to force Lockheed to abandon plans to demonstrate the F-35 at another British air show this weekend. But the company said it remained hopeful the plane would still make an appearance at the Farnborough show next week. The Pentagon has committed to buying more than 2,400 of the single-engine, supersonic planes, which are designed to be almost undetectable by radar. A dozen other American allies — including Australia, Canada, Israel and Japan — have signaled plans to purchase as many as 700 total. But technical delays and cost overruns have led a number of prospective customers to waver. Britain, which originally said it would buy 138 of the planes, has so far committed to only 48. Meanwhile, debt-laden Italy is considering cutting its order for 90 F-35s by up to half. Last year, the Netherlands reduced its planned purchase to 37 jets, from 85. The first F-35s are scheduled to be ready for combat service with the United States Marine Corps by the end of next year. But with the plane’s cost averaging around $100 million, some analysts say the F-35’s export appeal could be limited, especially in smaller countries whose military requirements can be met with cheaper hardware like the Eurofighter Typhoon, Dassault’s Rafale or the Saab Gripen. South Korea and Singapore are among those studying F-35 purchases, while a number of countries in the Persian Gulf have also expressed interest, particularly given their increasing wariness of Iran. But until now, Washington has prohibited Lockheed from actively marketing the plane to Arab states, in line with United States policy guidelines aimed at preserving Israel’s competitive military edge in the region. Typically, American contractors wait about five years before offering similar technology to Israel’s neighbors. Israel is expected to receive the first of 19 F-35s it has ordered in 2016, meaning that interested Arab states would not have access to the fighter before early next decade. “The U.S. makes it extremely difficult for these countries to acquire those aircraft,” said Michel Merluzeau, a managing partner of G2 Solutions, an aerospace consultancy in Kirkland, Wash. “So there is a real chance those countries are going to migrate to other platforms.” Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS