Updated, 4:35 p.m. | A sea of red jackets filled the New York Stock Exchange on Thursday for Lending Club’s initial public offering. But trading in the peer-to-peer lender’s stock was solidly in the green. Shares of the company opened up 65 percent from their I.P.O. price, at $24.75, before settling closer to around $23 a share near midday. The stock closed at $23.43, up 56 percent. There was strong demand for the stock, which was priced above an already heightened price range. At $23 a share, the company is valued at about $8.3 billion. The impressive debut for Lending Club, a marketplace that connects borrowers with potential lenders, augurs well for an industry it helped pioneer: peer-to-peer lending, which combines finance with technology. Other companies in the sector are expected to seek out public listings as well, beginning with the business lender OnDeck Capital joining the public markets next week. But Lending Club is the most prominent lender. It has originated roughly $6.2 billion worth of loans since its inception in late 2006. Such is the promise of the company that it has drawn major financial luminaries to its board, including John J. Mack, the former chief executive of Morgan Stanley, and Mary Meeker, the onetime technology analyst who is now a partner at the venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers. Both were in attendance for opening day on Thursday, clad in the red sailing jackets that Lending Club gave out to employees and others guests for its ringing of the opening bell. After the stock began trading, the two hugged. (Another financial boldfaced-name board member,  Lawrence H. Summers, the former Treasury secretary, was not in attendance, but delivered a short speech via telephone before the opening bell.) By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED The eight-year-old company priced its stock at $15 a share, more than the most recent expected range of $12 to $14. At that level, the offering values the company at $5.4 billion. A version of this article appears in print on 12/12/2014, on page B4 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Strong Debut. Advertisement