Monday brought surprises from BuzzFeed, the social Web site that is suddenly and rather robustly investing in reporting muscle. The Web site has raised $15.5 million in financing from New Enterprise Associates, Lerer Ventures, Hearst Interactive Media, Softbank and RRE, according to a news release issued early in the morning. The announcement was noticed in media circles partly because it was made less than a month after BuzzFeed named Ben Smith, a standout writer from Politico, its editor in chief. Mr. Smith in turn hired a row of young reporters and video producers, several of whom specialize in political coverage. A new elections section of the Web site is now posting a dozen or so political items a day, all designed to be shared on social networks like Facebook and Twitter. The new round of financing suggests that more hires may be on the way.

“The funding allows us to invest simultaneously in technology and editorial,” Jonah Peretti, BuzzFeed’s co-founder and chief executive, said in an e-mail Monday. Mr. Peretti said he sensed an opportunity for a content-rich Web site that “deeply understands the social Web.” “We see a big opening to be the definitive social publishing site so we decided to go big, hire Ben, and raise a round of financing,” he said. “Now Ben has the resources he needs to build an amazing team of reporters and we can continue to invest in technology so our team has the best tools and analytics in the industry.” Later this year, Mr. Smith will be charged with starting and staffing other new sections of the site. Also on Monday, BuzzFeed said that its other co-founder, Kenneth Lerer, has become the company’s executive chairman; Patrick Kerins, the general manager of New Enterprise Associates, has joined the company’s board; and Greg Coleman, a former president of The Huffington Post, has become an active adviser. Mr. Peretti and Mr. Lerer are also veterans of The Huffington Post. The $15.5 million represents BuzzFeed’s third round of financing. “The company was accidentally profitable this summer before it started aggressively hiring and revenue has been growing more quickly than traffic,” said TechCrunch, which first reported the financing round. “BuzzFeed eschews traditional advertising in favor of socially focused ads from brands like Disney and Microsoft.” 
			The Fox network announced four new dramas and five new comedies it has ordered for the next television season.Read more… 
			The New York Times’ Media news can now be found at the Media & Advertising section front.Read more… 
			David Zinczenko, the former Rodale executive who wrote the “Eat This, Not That” series, will write three books on exercise, diet and nutrition, and form a new imprint, Zinc Ink.Read more… 
			The race, ethnicity and culture reporting in NPR’s series “Changing Races” is part of the network’s strategy to “do better about mirroring America,” the chief executive says.Read more… 
			The Emmy-winning actor may replace Carson Daly in a late-night half hour interview program, according to one executive involved in the network’s program planning.Read more… Follow Advertisement