Updated, 8:09 p.m. |  A onetime hot dog cart is on its way to becoming a global company listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Shake Shack, which has grown substantially since its humble beginnings more than a decade ago in Madison Square Park in Manhattan, on Monday  filed to sell shares to the public. An initial public offering would follow splashy debuts by several other restaurant chains this year. Shares of El Pollo Loco jumped 60 percent on their first day of trading in July and ultimately rose as high as $41.20. On Monday, the chain’s stock closed at $20.75, up 38 percent from its I.P.O. price. Shares of Zoe’s Kitchen also surged on their debut in April and are nearly double their I.P.O. price. Shake Shack, which operates 63 restaurants around the world, said in its filing that it could raise as much as $100 million through the sale of an undisclosed number of shares, although that figure is a placeholder and is likely to change. Two classes of shares will exist after the offering. The company also disclosed financial data in its filing on Monday. Over a three-fiscal-year period that ended Dec. 25, 2013, total revenue grew to $82.5 million from $19.5 million. More recently, for the 39 weeks ending Sept. 25, Shake Shack had revenue of $83.76 million, up nearly 41 percent from the same period in 2013. Net income fell 20 percent, to $3.54 million in that period. Thirty-one outlets operate in the United States, including seven in New York. At lunchtime in Manhattan, busy workers mingle with tourists in lines that often spill onto the street. And Shake Shack foods have found their way into the HBO series “The Newsroom,” the Universal film “Tower Heist” and “The Daily Show” on Comedy Central, according to the prospectus. “It’s also a name that people are going to recognize on Wall Street because it’s swept New York,” said Leslie Pfrang, a partner at of the Class V Group, an I.P.O. advisory firm. “Everybody goes to Shake Shack.” But the Middle East has proved to be the company’s biggest growth market, according to its prospectus, with 20 restaurants in operation. Shake Shack said it would use the money to open new outlets, renovate old ones and pay some debts. Shake Shack’s majority owner, Union Square Hospitality Group,began exploring an initial public offering last summer, but provided few details. Now there are a few, including that its risk factors involve potential potato bun and custard shortages as well as disruptions in its beef patty supplies. The company said it had a backup plan in case of beef emergencies. In a letter to potential investors, Union Square’s chief executive, Danny Meyer, who started Shake Shack, and Randy Garutti, Shake Shack’s chief executive, said they intended the original location to benefit Madison Square Park. The restaurant, the two men wrote, would eventually go to the park as a gift, which would in turn earn a percentage of the revenue from the hamburgers, crinkle-cut fries and milkshakes sold. “Our vision was for Shake Shack to be a ‘community wealth venture,’ ” the two men wrote. “And if it really worked, the park would feel safer, and much-needed dollars would be generated to provide funding for the park’s robust budget for ongoing maintenance, horticulture and public programming.” They also said they considered the names “Custard’s First Stand,” “Dog Run” and “Madison Mixer” before settling on “Shake Shack.” JPMorgan Chase and Morgan Stanley are the lead underwriters on the initial public offering. . . Advertisement