Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, weighed in on the impact of start-up companies like Uber, the ride-sharing program. Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, sought on Thursday to challenge Washington’s prevailing antagonism toward Wall Street.  Speaking at the DealBook Conference in Manhattan, Mr. Blankfein said Wall Street had come to occupy an unwelcome position in Washington similar to where the military was during the Vietnam War protests. “I certainly don’t think it’s a virtue to declare a big segment of the economy off limits,” Mr. Blankfein said.  He was responding to questions about his feelings toward a potential presidential run by Hillary Rodham Clinton and her relationship with Wall Street.  “I’ve always been a big fan of Hillary Clinton,” he said.  Mr. Blankfein also addressed recent opposition to the nomination of a Wall Street executive, the Lazard investment banker Antonio Weiss, to a top post in the Treasury Department.  The nomination has generated controversy, particularly because Mr. Weiss is eligible for a $20 million payout of deferred compensation if he leaves his job for Washington.  Mr. Blankfein said the people criticizing the payout seemed to want Wall Street executives to give up compensation they had already earned in order to take a job in public service. “Why does the country benefit from making something hard so much harder?” Mr. Blankfein said.  Mr. Blankfein, though, was not unsympathetic to all of the political currents roiling Washington these days. He sounded like something of a Marxist professor when speaking about the gains in efficiency that have been achieved through new technology and start-ups. When a start-up like Uber gains $20 billion in efficiencies, Mr. Blankfein said, it often takes “a saving that would have inured to labor” and instead ends up “attaching itself to the people who put up the capital.” “You’ve seen a little bit of a tension between capital and labor,” he said. Mr. Blankfein said it was useless to resist technological change but added that more could be done to help people transition from dying industries to growing ones.  None of this was enough to make him pessimistic about the United States economy. He compared the current moment to the late 1970s, when the economy seemed to be in a funk but was, in fact, at the beginning of a 20-year boom.  Advertisement