Advertisement By JOHN SCHWARTZJULY 12, 2014
 MY pals and I have had flashes of inspiration — blinding insights that promised to be million-dollar ideas. Back when print journalism wasn’t such a dark and wintry boneyard, my friend Jay had the idea for a magazine of modern parenting called, simply, Fret. My buddy Bill wanted to put together a publication for short people like the two of us. He called it Small Man. Neither project was the sort of thing that investors were willing to back. And each had what Tom Stoppard, in “Enter a Free Man,” his wonderful play about a crackpot inventor, called “the flaw in the ointment.” Consider Bill’s idea: Most short guys, as it turns out, don’t like to admit that they are short. That’s why you see lots of “big and tall” stores but no “short and portly” stores. Drat. So those ideas went nowhere. Then came the disruptive power of the Internet, which allows you to create projects and distribute them with lightning speed and low cost. We could have started Small Man and Fret as bold, digital-native publications and seen them fail many times over by now. But I’m no quitter. The moneymaker of my dreams is out there, and the Internet might help make it happen. The online world, after all, spawned one of my greatest ideas: NYT Blue, a concept that would have allowed readers of the New York Times website an alternative to our sometimes-prissy language and use of phrases like “obscene and scatological terms” and “breathtakingly vulgar synonym” as substitutes for cuss words. I’m still waiting for management to embrace it. We would have charged a quarter a click, and I might even have merited a cut. Who needs a 401(k) when you can fund your retirement with obscenities? Advertisement I described the idea some years ago during a meeting with the newspaper’s superb and longtime standards editor, Al Siegal, who was then about to retire. He said, dryly, “I’m getting out just in time.” Advertisement Well, I say “barnyard epithet” to that kind of thinking. It’s important to keep trying. So here’s my next big idea: People want to look dumb. This may be too much of an insight to take in all at once, so let’s break it down. Many of us want to do the latest thing, right? To be at the forefront of fashion or technology, and to show it off? So we jump at the chance to show off something new — without realizing that we look like dweebs. I’m something of an expert on unfortunate fashion. Ask any member of my family about the buttonless Hawaiian shirts of my college years, or the article of clothing that my wife and I now call the “clown shirt.” There is one embarrassing trend that I happened to miss: Crocs, those soft clog-style shoes that swept the nation. One day, it seemed, everyone was wearing them. Then, everyone, as if all at the same time, looked down at their comfy footwear and thought, “What have I done?” Sales went from superhot to super-not. High tech has waves of fashion, as well. A MacBook Air can be an enhancing accessory, but typing on one while you walk down the hallway of your office is basically an invitation to be tripped by techno-bullies. Show off new tech toys at your peril. At first, people seemed to think that they looked dashing in those glowing Bluetooth earpieces for their phones — like a kind of sexy Borg character from “Star Trek.” Except that they looked more like the toady losers, the Ferengi. (Or at least I would have. I wanted one, but it wasn’t self-image that kept me from buying; I was just too cheap.) These days, I see people popping a Bluetooth into an ear only to have a conversation, not to say to the world, “Look, I have something blinking in my ear.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. My theory is that people like looking dumb as long as they don’t think about it too hard. We revel in the new until we take a good look in the mirror. How else to explain the same sense of fashion that can be found in the e-cigarette, one of the silliest-looking recent technologies out there? You’ve probably encountered, at least in ads, this clunky replacement for the old-fashioned way of smoking tobacco. Now you can avoid traditional cigarettes and use one of these devices — some of which glow blue, like many of those Bluetooth headsets — to contract a terminal case of loser-itis. The most excellent example of unfortunate tech fashion is, of course, Google Glass, the computing accessory that says “I have more money than sense.” Boosters of the technology tell us that we will all be wearing it someday. And Google has teamed up with makers of fancy eyewear, like Diane von Furstenberg. She has made Google Glass units that are even more expensive but look no less annoying. All I have to do is find the next dumb-looking thing that I can sell to people as an enhancing accessory. I envision it as a kind of wearable tech item that is both useful and cumbersome, with maybe a hint of that notion of sustainability that is so popular these days — something between the Oculus Rift virtual-reality headset and those old propeller beanies. In fact, how about a propeller beanie with a vertical propeller? It could harness wind power to recharge your Google Glass! Advertisement Google is the leader in this field. At the end of June, it put up a web page about “the Cardboard project,” which takes a do-it-yourself headset and, with an app’s help, turns your Android phone into a virtual-reality device. This thing is dweeb-tastic. No one will ever look dumber than this, walking around wearing a do-it-yourself cardboard virtual-reality headset. That’s when it hit me. Between Glass and Cardboard, Google has the contemporary geek market wrapped up. And the company’s Android Wear watches — the ones that look like you are wearing an entire Android tablet on your wrist — show great promise. If anyone understands our inner desire to look idiotic, it’s Google. And why not? It knows everything about us, from our searches and our email to our Google Groups preferences — oh, wait, nobody uses Google Groups. That aside, it has a stunningly accurate portrait of our psyches. And it intends to profit from it. I’m but a Small Man and Google is Big Data. I don’t really know whether I can be dumber than a major corporation, in all of its collective wisdom, already is. So I am expressing my feelings with a breathtakingly vulgar epithet. For now, I’ll have to keep the auto-deposit function for my 401(k) switched in the “on” position. Maybe I’m stuck in the world of hundred-dollar deposits, but that’s only until my next million-dollar idea catches on. A version of this article appears in print on July 13, 2014, on Page BU11 of the New York edition with the headline: The Face of Unfortunate Fashion.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »