Erin Callan, the former chief financial officer of Lehman Brothers, all  but disappeared from Wall Street after the collapse of the firm. Recently, however, there was a big development in her life: She was married late last year to her long-time beau, Anthony Montella, in an intimate ceremony at a historical site in Midtown Manhattan. The nuptials took place in early November during a pre-sunset gathering at 620 Loft and Garden at Rockefeller Center, according to photos of the event by Rentsch Photography reviewed by DealBook.   The bride was dressed in a flowing floor-length silver gown and was wearing an intricate vintage matching hair clip, a white fur bolero and silver strappy Jimmy Choo shoes (there were several photographs just of her shoes). Ms. Callan walked down the aisle clutching an elegant bouquet of white calla lilies. Mr. Montella  was dressed in a black tuxedo with silk piping and a deep wine-colored boutonnière. Her two dogs, one of which is a terrier, were with her before the ceremony when she and her parents met in a hotel room overlooking Central Park to dress and have Ms. Callan’s makeup done.  She and her parents, dressed in black, then traveled to the 620 Loft in a limousine.   The ceremony took place on the rooftop of 620 Loft, which has a reflective pool and features breathtaking views of St. Patrick’s Cathedral and the Rockefeller Center Ice Skating Rink.  It’s not known how many people attended the wedding, but the site has room for 165 guests and can seat 120 for dinner.  Mr. Montella, who has previously been identified as a firefighter for the city,  and Ms. Callan, who was married once before, have known each other for years. They are both graduates of St. Francis Preparatory School in Fresh Meadows, Queens.  It’s not known when the two began dating, but they surfaced as a couple in the wake of Lehman’s collapse in September 2008.   Ms. Callan, the daughter of a New York police officer, joined Lehman in 1995 and in late 2007 was named chief financial officer.  During her six months as chief financial officer, she and the firm came under fire for its handling of the firm’s financials. Ms. Callan took on a high profile during this period, at times appearing on CNBC to ensure investors about the firm’s solid financial health, making her a target for critics of the firm.   In June 2008 she was demoted from chief financial officer and left the firm soon after for a job at Credit Suisse advising hedge funds, a role she had previously held at Lehman. That job was short lived and soon after she left, retreating to her home in East Hampton, where records show the couple now live. Despite efforts by journalists to draw her out, and an occasional sighting of her at a spin class, she has kept a low profile and has not spoken publicly about Lehman since leaving Credit Suisse. She did not return a call for comment for this article. There were no recognizable Wall Street figures in the photos taken by Rentsch Photography.  After the ceremony, guests went inside for dinner and dessert, which included miniature chocolate cupcakes gently perched on forks. After dinner, there was dancing, some of which was raucous and included break-dancing by the bride and groom.  In one photo, Mr. Montella is crouched low to the floor, palms up, as Ms. Callan hovers above him against a backdrop of jubilant guests. The tables were decorated with candle lamps, dark table cloth, lilies similar to the ones Ms. Callan carried down the aisle and each place setting had a napkin embossed with the gold initials E&A.  Property records, meanwhile, show Ms. Callan and Mr. Montella bought a home in Florida just weeks after getting married.  The house on Florida’s west coast was purchased for $829,000, according to property records.  The modest two-bedroom, two-bath house looks out onto the water.  Michael J. de la Merced contributed reporting.  Advertisement