Advertisement Supported by By Conrad De Aenlle STOCKS rallied through the second quarter, as investors displayed a growing appetite for risk and a striking lack of concern about any reversal of fortune. Although they are still taking it mostly on faith, they remain confident that the Federal Reserve eventually will engineer a solid economic revival.  The market has risen long enough that the second-quarter gain of 4.7 percent in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index left it trading at roughly 19.6 times earnings. That is well above the long-term average multiple of 15.5, but buyers may not mind the altitude because their road has been so remarkably straight and smooth. (The last significant market correction was almost three years ago.) Through June, the last day with a stock-market move of at least 1 percent in either direction was on April 16, making this the longest such stretch since 1995. That helps explain why indicators of investor opinion show near-record lopsidedness in ratios of bulls to bears — nearly four to one in the widely followed Investors Intelligence survey of advisory newsletters. Rich valuations and extreme bullishness may look like signs of euphoria, but other evidence suggests that investors are more bored than thrilled. Trading volumes in American stocks and some bonds, notably Treasury instruments, are close to their lowest levels in at least five years. With asset prices rising — stocks, bonds, real estate investment trusts, gold and other commodities were all up in the second quarter — and the Fed still supporting markets with unorthodox policies like keeping short-term interest rates near zero, Wall Street has few sellers. Those same policies are believed to have raised valuations substantially and artificially, however, so that there aren’t many buyers, either. There is a consensus that stocks are more promising than bonds but that, with stock prices high and bond yields low, and with the Fed contemplating a return to a more normal environment, prospects for both major asset classes appear limited. So caution is warranted. “Equities don’t look great, but they look better than bonds,” said Kristina Hooper, United States investment strategist at Allianz Global Investors. “I can’t stress enough how unique and extraordinary this environment is. All bets are off. We would advise investors to be far more discerning and selective and more concerned about valuations.” That is how Wallace Weitz, a manager of the Weitz Value fund, has been running his portfolio. With ever fewer stocks appearing cheap to him, he has raised cash to about 30 percent of assets. “I don’t find anything that I would pound the table about,” Mr. Weitz said. “We care about absolute value; relative value doesn’t matter much if everything is expensive. There’s not much that I would say anybody needs to be in a rush” to buy. In the second quarter, investors were in a sufficient hurry to put money to work that they sent fund prices higher across the board, although more modestly than in other recent periods. Domestic equity funds rose 3.9 percent, on average, according to Morningstar, while international stock funds were up by 4.6 percent and bond funds by 2 percent. THE markets may have enjoyed a placid three months, but the environment wasn’t entirely cheerful. To the contrary, there were plenty of reasons for concern. Tensions remained high in Ukraine, and attacks in June by the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, a formidable group of insurgents tied to Al Qaeda, threatened to bring civil war to Iraq and helped to drive oil prices to their highest levels in nearly a year, though they have since fallen. And as the quarter came to a close, violence flared up between Israel and its Palestinian adversaries. The battle against economic stagnation in the United States had a setback, too. A report released in late June showed the gross domestic product contracting at a 2.9 percent annual rate in the first quarter, the worst result since 2009, when the recession was ending. Yet these inauspicious developments caused barely a ripple in the markets. Investors evidently decided that the foreign conflicts would have little impact in the United States, and economists and strategists took the negative economic reading as a one-time event caused by a particularly severe winter. “I’m not too worried about the G.D.P. drop,” said David Kelly, chief market strategist at the J.P. Morgan Funds. “I feel very confident that we’re going to get 3 percent growth” for the second quarter, for which preliminary figures will be announced on July 30. “There’s fundamental support for the rally in equity markets from low interest rates and economic improvement,” he said, adding the caveat, “as long as central banks keep pumping money into the world economy and creating a sea of liquidity.” Russ Koesterich, chief investment strategist at BlackRock, agreed that the economic contraction was not as scary as it seemed. “There was a hiccup in the first quarter, but investors are reassured that much of it was due to the weather,” Mr. Koesterich said. “The economy is improving, but not enough for the Fed to feel threatened” into tightening policy. He called the strife in Iraq more troubling. “There’s a disconnect between the front page and the business page,” Mr. Koesterich said. None of the front-page issues earlier in the year “had a strong-enough link to the global economy to affect the markets, he added. “Iraq does. If oil goes to $125 a barrel, it could provide a headwind and be a game changer.” Gerald Buetow, chief investment officer at Innealta Capital, a firm that manages portfolios of exchange-traded funds, also said he found the lack of nervousness about Iraq unnerving. “You have the potential for a violent situation in one of the most critical regions, and everyone’s yawning,” he said. Mr. Buetow also expressed concern about conditions on the home front, in the economy and the markets, but more so than some of his peers. “Where do you start?” he said. “Where’s the organic growth? You can only squeeze so much water out of this rock. Look at the figures that folks are using to defend equity valuations. They’re using unsustainable profit and growth assumptions. The market is frighteningly, dangerously overvalued.” Given that outlook and the need to put money somewhere, many of Mr. Buetow’s investment preferences tend to be distant or obscure. He likes agricultural commodities and precious and industrial metals, with stocks and bonds in developed Pacific markets like Hong Kong, Singapore, Japan and Australia. Those places, he said, have “better growth prospects, far better fiscal and monetary policies and far more attractive valuations than any other markets in the world.”  When it comes to American stocks, the few sectors that he favors have high dividend yields, such as telecommunications, utilities and staples. Funds that specialize in utility stocks excelled in the second quarter, gaining 8.8 percent, on average, while energy sector funds had a return of 12.2 percent. Funds that focus on financial services were noticeably weaker, rising 1.3 percent.  The strength in international stock funds came largely from India, with an average gain of 16.6 percent, and Latin America, up 8 percent. It was hindered by an average return of 1.4 percent for European funds.  Like Mr. Buetow, Mr. Kelly favors commodities, although he made a point of excluding gold from his list of recommended holdings. He advised a “cautious overweight” position in domestic stocks, summarizing his outlook as “a green light on stocks relative to bonds and a yellow light on absolute valuations.” He would also emphasize European and emerging stock markets. Europe is also a preferred destination for Ms. Hooper at Allianz. She went so far as to call herself “excited about European stocks” after the European Central Bank announced additional loosening in its monetary policy last month. For domestic investors, she favors sectors like technology that offer the prospect of growing dividend payments, and she highlighted the virtues of convertible bonds as “a nice diversifier to one’s exposure to risk assets.” Convertibles generally make regular interest payments, as other bonds do, and because the bonds can be converted into a certain number of the issuing company’s shares, they are a bet on continued growth in stock prices. Ms. Hooper supported the idea of having two ways to win because she didn’t want to rely on just one in today’s climate. “I’m concerned about stretched valuations,” she said. “I don’t expect the stock market to go much further in the back half of the year.” Mr. Koesterich, the BlackRock strategist, likewise questioned how much further the good times would roll. He favored a diverse range of assets, including European and Japanese stocks, energy stocks, municipal bonds and commodities. He cautioned that “none of these look like home runs from this starting point,” however, and advised investors to keep their heads in the game amid the pervasive complacency. “You have to be realistic; very few things are cheap on an absolute basis,” he said. “Investors have been conditioned by every scare they read about in the paper to buy the dip because the conditions go away,” he said. “One day they won’t.” Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS