Updated, 8:22 p.m. | The Alibaba Group, the Chinese e-commerce giant, is tapping into its vast records on the online spending habits of its users for a new purpose: to provide credit ratings on consumers. On Wednesday, Ant Financial Services, a privately held company controlled by Alibaba’s founder, Jack Ma, announced the introduction of the Sesame Credit Management Group, a credit-scoring business that will rely primarily on online data. Alibaba shares in some of Ant’s profits through a contract. Ant wants to attract the millions of Chinese who lack established, traditional credit histories. China’s consumers are notoriously frugal, with a household savings rate among the highest in the world for a large economy. Lack of access to credit among consumers and small businesses is one reason. “They may have never obtained bank loans or applied for credit cards,” Yu Wujie, the chief data scientist of Sesame Credit, said in a statement. “However, they might be active Internet users who shop online a lot, e-pay their utility bills on time, have a stable residential status and have been using their mobile phone numbers for a long time. We will take these and other factors into consideration when assessing consumers’ creditworthiness.” The availability of information on creditworthiness is another barrier to promoting consumer borrowing, which doesn’t have robust rating systems like FICO scores and other credit ratings information used in the United States. As of September, only 436 million domestic credit cards were in use China, with a population of more than 1.3 billion. While the central bank, the People’s Bank of China, maintains a credit reference center with 850 million people in its database, that information can be limited, and most of it comes from banks. Ant Financial is betting it can provide better financial information that will make credit more readily available to millions of people across China, benefiting not only consumers seeking loans but also landlords screening potential tenants, the lovelorn sizing up suitors and employers evaluating job candidates. The new venture is the latest example of how Mr. Ma, 50, is shaking up  China’s state-dominated financial system. Sesame Credit is one of eight new privately owned credit-scoring businesses that were given preliminary approval this month by the Chinese central bank. The Communist Party leadership in Beijing has been trying to decrease China’s reliance on debt-fueled investment as the economy’s main driver of growth, hoping to shift greater importance to consumer demand. To determine credit scores, Sesame Credit will partly use the spending and savings behavior of Ant Financial’s more than 300 million real-name registered users — equivalent to nearly a quarter of China’s population. It will also tap into data on 37 million small businesses that buy and sell goods on Alibaba’s shopping websites, including Taobao Marketplace and Tmall.com. It will have access to the payment histories on Alipay, an online payment service similar to eBay’s PayPal, as well as information about investors in Yu’e Bao, an online money market fund that pays higher returns than a bank savings account and has about 150 million users. The company will use this information to assign credit scores ranging from 350 points to 950 points — the higher the better — and will factor in a user’s credit history, online shopping preferences, repayment ability, personal information and online social networking activity. “This will make their everyday life easier and help spur the development of a healthy economic and social environment,” Eric Jing, Ant Financial’s chief operating officer, said in a statement. A version of this article appears in print on 01/29/2015, on page B9 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Alibaba Data to Help Provide Consumer Credit Ratings. Advertisement