The Alibaba Group’s publicly traded affiliate, Alibaba.com, has emerged as a potential part of its plan to buy back most of a stake held by Yahoo, people briefed on the matter said on Thursday. Yahoo has been in talks for several months with its Asian partners — Alibaba and Softbank of Japan — on what amounts to a tax-free asset swap worth billions of dollars. Yahoo currently owns about 40 percent of Alibaba and 35 percent of Yahoo Japan, the latter of which is controlled by Softbank. Trading in shares of Alibaba.com was halted on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on Thursday, after the company said that it was in discussions with its parent. Alibaba owns about 75 percent of Alibaba.com.  Under the proposed terms of the deal, Alibaba and Softbank would create new subsidiaries that would contain cash and operating assets. Yahoo would take control of those entities in return for giving up most of its stake in Alibaba and all of its stake in Yahoo Japan. The proposal could value Yahoo’s stakes in its Asian partners at about $17 billion. But the people briefed on the matter cautioned that talks were continuing and might still fall apart. Among the many complications of the plan is finding operating assets that Yahoo wants and the Asian partners would be willing to buy. Alibaba had previously held discussions about both the online video hub Hulu and the Weather Channel, according to these people, who were not authorized to speak publicly about the talks. But using Alibaba.com, an asset that Alibaba already controls, could remove an additional complication from an already labyrinthine plan, these people said. In exchange, Yahoo would get a significant stake in Alibaba.com, perhaps about one-third, to qualify the transaction for tax-free status. Alibaba.com, a giant business-to-business marketplace, also complements Yahoo’s desire to develop business related to e-commerce, one of the people briefed on the matter said. Yahoo recently appointed Scott Thompson, the former president of PayPal, the online payments processor owned by eBay, as its chief executive. Last month, Mr. Thompson told analysts in a conference call that he was considering new business models. As of Thursday, Alibaba.com had a market value of 46.3 billion Hong Kong dollars ($6 billion). While Reuters reported late Thursday that Alibaba planned on taking Alibaba.com private, one of the people briefed on the matter said that a publicly traded company could still be used as the operating asset. Other possible operating assets for the transaction include the Chinese social network operator Renren and the online marketplace company Taobao. Yahoo and its Asian partners are hoping to complete the terms of a deal in March, though it would still require formal review by the Internal Revenue Service. The transaction could close by the end of the year or early next year. A person briefed on the matter previously said that Yahoo had already received an informal indication from the I.R.S. that such a deal would be tax-free. Spokesmen for Alibaba and Yahoo declined to comment. Advertisement