JPMorgan Chase‘s chief financial officer said on Wednesday that the bank was hopeful it would be able to reach new, higher capital requirements with only “surgical” changes. At the same time, she said the bank’s profitable trading business faced a “challenging environment.” A Federal Reserve official singled out JPMorgan as the bank likely to have the biggest need for more capital under new rules outlined on Tuesday. The bank could be required to increase its capital by $22 billion.  Banks can raise capital either by selling new stock to shareholders or retaining profits. Marianne Lake, JPMorgan’s chief financial officer, said at a conference on Wednesday that the bank was not expecting to have to cut back on the amount its profits it delivered to shareholders in dividends. The bank has until 2019 to comply with the new rules. The capital requirements are aimed at giving banks a buffer in times of crisis, and they come down hardest on banks that are the largest and rely on funding that can be withdrawn on short notice. Ms. Lake acknowledged that JPMorgan was likely to face the stiffest capital requirements under the new rules.  She also echoed comments from executives at Bank of America and Citibank, who said they were expecting to see a slowdown in revenue from their trading desks in the fourth quarter after a stronger third quarter. Ms. Lake said JPMorgan’s core trading revenue could fall 4 percent from a year earlier, and its overall trading revenue could drop even more as a result of the bank selling its physical commodities business. She said the bank was not expecting any improvement in trading conditions in the near term.  The bank’s stock was down more than 2 percent in trading on Wednesday morning.  By PETER EAVIS The proposed regulation could require JPMorgan Chase, one of the eight large banks targeted, to come up with an additional $20 billion in capital. A version of this article appears in print on 12/11/2014, on page B10 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Need for Capital. Advertisement