Advertisement By REUTERSJUNE 2, 2014
 BEIJING — Encouraging China factory data helped lift Asian equities and commodities on Monday, with the Nikkei 225-stock average in Japan rising 2.1 percent. China continues to show signs of an economic revival as its factory activity expanded in May at the fastest pace in five months, raising some hopes that Beijing’s targeted measures to bolster growth are having an impact. China’s official purchasing managers’ index, geared toward large, state-owned companies, rose to 50.8 in May, from 50.4 in April, the National Bureau of Statistics said Sunday, beating market expectations of 50.6. Figures above 50 indicate expansion. Indian shares rose 1.9 percent, and Australian shares added 0.5 percent. Greater China markets were closed for a holiday, and although most markets in the region showed gains, MSCI’s broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was little changed. Advertisement “Risk appetite has risen mainly on bright economic data from China, but the direction for the month will likely depend on other economic data like U.S. jobs figures this week,” said Hikaru Sato, a senior technical analyst at Daiwa Securities in Tokyo. Advertisement On China, a preliminary index for manufacturing issued late last month by HSBC also showed the factory sector turning in its best performance in five months, although that reading, which reflects a poll of smaller companies, remained below the 50-point level, suggesting contraction in activity. The final reading of the HSBC index is scheduled for release Tuesday. “The upside surprise was led by the new-orders index, which rose to a six-month high, reflecting the government’s continued effort since mid-March to boost investment and construction activities,” Jian Chang and Serena Zhou, economists at Barclays, said in a note, referring to China’s official index. A subindex for new orders, a measure of foreign and domestic demand, edged up to 52.3 in May from 51.2 in April, marking the highest level since November.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Beijing has stepped up policy fine-tuning in recent weeks and has unveiled a series of measures this year to shore up the economy, which dipped to an 18-month low in the first quarter and which analysts expect to post its weakest annual showing in 24 years. China’s cabinet, the State Council, announced new measures on Friday to help lower funding costs and reduce operating burdens for companies as a way to bolster the economy, much like previous efforts to hasten the construction of railways and public housing. Signals were mixed from other HSBC indexes for manufacturing in Asia, which like the China index are compiled by the research firm Markit. In South Korea, a manufacturing and export powerhouse, the gauge slid to a seasonally adjusted 49.5 in May from 50.2 in April. Trade data for May showed that the nation’s exports fell 0.9 percent compared with the same month last year, below analysts’ estimate for growth of 1.2 percent. An additional public holiday in May and the placement of holidays close together affected the trade data. In India, the index edged up to 51.4 in May from 51.3 in April, but that was slightly below the 51.6 median forecast in a Reuters poll of analysts. In Indonesia, the index surged to a record high of 52.4 in May, driven by unprecedented growth in new orders, but hopes were tempered after the country’s trade balance slipped back into deficit in April after two consecutive months of surpluses. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »