MetLife sued a panel of regulators led by the Treasury secretary on Tuesday to fight its designation as “systemically important,” making it the first financial company to go to court over the issue since the government started singling out so-called too-big-to-fail institutions in an effort to stem any future financial crises. The regulatory panel, known as the Financial Stability Oversight Council, has been deciding which companies qualify as systemically important, an authority given it under the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law. The goal is to prevent the kind of domino effect that swept the financial system in 2008, when the troubles of a few important companies threatened to topple countless others unless taxpayers provided a giant bailout. In its lawsuit, MetLife said that the council had made “numerous critical errors” in deciding that MetLife was systemically important and therefore in need of close oversight by the Federal Reserve. “MetLife will be irreparably harmed” if the designation is left in place, the insurer said in its complaint, filed in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. The lawsuit signifies a major challenge by one of the country’s largest companies in the way the council is wielding its powers. MetLife called the designation “arbitrary and capricious,” and asked the court to vacate it, pointing out that the Fed has not yet written the rules that systemically important nonbank companies, like insurers, will ultimately have to follow. The insurer seemed to leave open the possibility that it would accept being designated a “systemically important financial institution,” or SIFI, in the future, once those rules are known. It also suggested that it might accept the designation if it were applied to certain activities common to all insurers, rather than the current approach, which singles out a few big companies for stricter oversight, but leaves everyone else to do business as usual. Steven Kandarian, chief executive of MetLife, said the insurer will file suit to fight its designation as a “systemically important financial institution.” “We don’t think that we are systemically important,” MetLife’s chief executive, Steven A. Kandarian, said in an interview on Tuesday. “We are simply not that interconnected to other organizations.” For example, Mr. Kandarian said, even if MetLife were in such serious trouble that it defaulted on all its obligations to its largest business partner — a global bank — the total loss would approximate just 2 percent of that bank’s equity. He declined to name the bank, but said it was a SIFI (pronounced SIH-fee) that MetLife had obligations to including debts, derivatives contracts and securities-lending deals, among others. Currently, banks are designated systemically important on the basis of size. But for insurers and other financial institutions, the council has been reviewing other criteria, such as a company’s activity in the capital markets, the extent to which it does business with other financial firms, and how it is currently regulated. Being “systemically important” does not mean the institution is operating in a hazardous manner, but that in the event of a crisis, its far-flung relationships could set off a cascade. A spokeswoman for the Treasury Department, Suzanne Elio, said it had made the designation on MetLife “only after a thorough analysis and extensive engagement with the company.” “We are confident in the council’s work,” Ms. Elio said. Moody’s Investors Service, the credit ratings agency, called the legal challenge “an uphill battle” that “could serve as a distraction to MetLife’s management resources.” Banks that are designated systemically important must follow the more stringent capital requirements being phased in under the international agreement known as Basel III. For other financial institutions, though, Congress recently specified that Basel III would not apply, and instead, the Fed would issue a set of new prudential rules more tailored to the type of financial services they provide. While stricter capital and liquidity standards are expected to improve the overall stability of the financial system and help individual companies weather shocks, they could also mute those companies’ financial performance. MetLife has been arguing that by subjecting it to stricter rules than most other insurers, the council threatens to make it less competitive without actually reducing systemic risk. It also asserts that the new regimen will drive up the price of insurance. Mr. Kandarian, the MetLife chief, cited an outside study that found that if all the systemically significant insurers had to comply with the tougher capital standards for banks, insurance prices could rise industrywide by $5 billion to $8 billion. The other two insurers designated systemically important are the American International Group and Prudential Financial. Among them, the three companies have a such a large market presence that what they sell and how they price it affects the market as a whole. A.I.G. made no attempt to fight its designation. Prudential unsuccessfully challenged its designation in an evidentiary hearing by the council, but decided not to proceed to court. Mr. Kandarian expressed concern that by trying to protect the financial system, the council might put the kind of protection that insurance can offer outside the reach of middle-class Americans. Ms. Elio, the Treasury spokeswoman, said that the council “protects the financial system and hard-working Americans by identifying and mitigating potential threats to financial stability.” She said the Treasury was aware of the lawsuit, but did not say how the council might respond. When the council gave MetLife its SIFI designation, Moody’s called it “a credit positive” because stricter oversight “would likely require SIFIs to maintain more conservative financial management, which should serve as a deterrent to assuming outsize risks.” MetLife’s lawsuit cited what it said were both procedural and substantive flaws in the council’s designation. Procedurally, it said that the council had issued the designation prematurely, without knowing what rules MetLife would have to follow as a SIFI, or how they might affect it. “The council should wait until the rules are in place and it knows the impact on designated firms,” Mr. Kandarian said. MetLife also said it had not been able to see all the documents the council had relied on. It complained that the council was structured so that its 10 voting and five nonvoting members wore too many hats — acting interchangeably as lawmakers, prosecutors, investigators and judges. For that reason, MetLife raised constitutional questions, saying that the council had “violated the company’s due process rights and the constitutional separation of powers.” In substantive terms, MetLife said the council had not given adequate consideration to the role played by state insurance regulators, and argued that some of the council’s concerns about indirect effects were “sheer speculation.” A lawyer for MetLife, Eugene Scalia, said there was ample court precedent for cases in which companies accused their regulators of decisions that were “arbitrary and capricious.” He said that newly established regulators in particular “sometimes falter” when working in areas where the standards are still in flux. The council “is new to this process and failed to do something that we hope down the road they might do better,” said Mr. Scalia, of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher. In a conference call with journalists, he said that the council appeared to be looking at asset managers differently from insurers, focusing on which of their business activities might pose a systemic risk, rather than singling out a few big companies. He said that if the council switched to that approach, it might allay MetLife’s concerns about being made uncompetitive.  A version of this article appears in print on 01/14/2015, on page B1 of the NewYork edition with the headline: MetLife Sues Over Being Named Too Big to Fail. Advertisement