When the European Banking Authority, the European Union banking regulator, recently released an opinion indicating that a number of global banks had wrongly classified some of their complex new bonus structures, perhaps in violation of European law, many of the banks immediately scrambled to reach another regulator — a few blocks away. That regulator, Britain’s Prudential Regulatory Authority, had already approved some of the pay structures. “It’s a very bizarre situation,” said Jon Terry, head of global financial services human resources consulting at PricewaterhouseCoopers. Banker pay is just one of many fraught issues caught in Europe’s ever-changing regulatory architecture where regulators, rule makers, supervisory authorities and central banks are all jostling to fix Europe’s banks, prevent a future crisis and make sure customers and counterparties are treated fairly. “After so many changes in banking regulation, it’s hard to know who does what,” said Raoul Ruparel, head of economic research at Open Europe, a research group based in London. Nowhere is that confusion felt more in than in London. The city, the financial capital of Europe, is part of the European Union, but not part of the 18-country eurozone. That means it is subject to the union laws, including the much-hated 2013 bonus cap, which limits bonuses to one times salary, or two times with shareholder approval. It is also not part of the newly minted banking union, which as of last month is to be overseen by a pan-European regulator, the Single Supervisory Mechanism. Caught in the middle of all this is the European Banking Authority. It is a regulator but not an enforcer, and it runs high-profile stress tests on banks but cannot, by law, demand information directly from those banks. It is, at times, made out to be public enemy No. 1, even though it only writes rules for laws it did not pass. Perhaps its biggest problem is that it is housed in a shiny building in a city where many powerful players want to discredit the rules from Europe. “They have a thankless job because many people think they have more powers than they actually have, and when there is a failure, they blame them,” said Nicolas Véron, senior fellow at the European research group Bruegel and a visiting fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. The authority was set up in 2010 as part of an effort to address the fragmented nature of Europe’s banking supervision, which was seen as one of the causes of the financial crisis. It became part of the European System of Financial Supervision, which includes four other organizations and all the national supervisory authorities. The banking authority’s governance invites confusion. The agency is run by a board made up of the heads of the national banking supervisors from the 28 member states of the European Union. They vote by qualified majority — meaning by weights assigned to countries, though in 2011 the European Union introduced a new voting scheme, a double simple majority, to reduce the likelihood that the British would be outnumbered by the 18-country eurozone bloc. So issues like defining leverage or risk-weighted assets are voted on by a qualified majority of the 28 members of the board and also require a simple majority of countries in the eurozone and those out of it. So the overall system is qualified majority/double simple majority. And the chairman does not get to vote. The new voting scheme is “a major improvement,” from what it used to be, said Andrea Enria, the authority’s chairman. “But it still is quite complex.” Policy watchers say this convoluted structure is the result of Britain’s difficult relationship with Europe: It wants to be part of the single market, but not subject to the authority of the European Central Bank, which will regulate the banking union. “The reason for this is almost entirely the U.K.’s refusal to be subject to the federal enforcement framework, which is a sovereign decision,” Mr. Véron said. The situation could become even more complicated: Under pressure from so-called euro-skeptics, Prime Minister David Cameron has promised a referendum on membership in the European Union by 2017. The authority’s main task is to help create the European Single Rulebook, a single set of harmonized rules for financial institutions throughout the European Union, as well as mediating disagreements among supervisors. That means it has the unenviable task of writing regulations for all the legislation that comes out of the European Union. Next year, for example, it has to write 37 standards, 21 guidelines and 19 opinions, many of which require drafts, public consultations, cost-benefit analyses, reviews and final drafts before they can be applied throughout the European Union. But it operates in a crowded field. In Europe, the European Central Bank is now the single supervisor for the 18 countries in the eurozone. Nationally, regulators are asserting authority on issues from pay to tests for their banks. And yet the banking authority is supposed to put out 400 pieces of work through 2017 in an environment of shrinking budgets and regulatory fatigue. “They are less relevant than they were because of the banking union and the push at the commission level to create strictly defined bank recovery and resolution structures,” Mr. Ruparel said, referring to efforts to set up structures to bail out a failing bank. Mr. Enria said the agency had accomplished a lot. It has completed 80 standards, which become regulation for all 28 member states. Its recent stress tests produced 12,000 data points from 123 banks, which it disclosed in an attempt to give investors and analysts a more honest picture of banks’ balance sheets. Many of the data points were technical standards that it has, over the years, harmonized and created with all its members. And the banks, knowing the stress tests were coming, raised lots of capital. “In terms of the strengthening of the system, it is as relevant as the blood on the floor,” Mr. Enria said, referring to the banks that failed the test. But the stress test was also an example of the authority’s frustrating limits. Both the European Central Bank and the banking authority ran tests. The banking authority looked at how 123 banks would react under adverse scenarios while the central bank examined the quality of the banks’ assets, including nonperforming loans and the all-important capital levels. (To further complicate matters, the Bank of England, Britain’s national prudential regulator, will run another test at the end of this year.) Twenty-four banks failed the stress test, though many had raised capital to deal with shortfalls before the results were released. But while the central bank got credit, the banking authority was criticized as not being tough enough. Mr. Enria defended the authority, saying the success of the test was the fact that the banks raised more than 55 billion euros of capital since January 2014. But the exercise caused even him to scratch his head. “I will not hide I have been puzzled about the role of the E.B.A. in the stress test,” he said. “Should we continue performing this role or is it for the supervisory authorities?” Mr. Enria acknowledged that Europe’s complicated regulatory landscape has a cost. “The complexity of our process meant we took longer” than the Americans to clean up the banks, Mr. Enria said. “The slowdown in credit growth is somewhat explained by the lengthier process.” He faces a tough road ahead, too, with budget cutbacks and an increased workload. And then there is the pay issue. For now, banks appear to be pushing ahead with their bonus structures, or allowances, for 2014, despite the banking authority’s ruling (which is not binding until there are guidelines next year. Even then, those guidelines are on a “comply or explain” basis, meaning national regulators have to comply, or explain to the authority why they are not.) But the banks will have to revise those allowances again in 2015. “It’s been regulation upon regulation upon regulation,” Mr. Terry, of PricewaterhouseCoopers, said. A version of this article appears in print on 12/03/2014, on page B7 of the NewYork edition with the headline: A Fragmented, Confused Scramble to Fix Europeu2019s Banking Structure. Advertisement