LONDON – The British bank HSBC has dismissed a senior foreign currency trader in London, according to a person briefed on the matter.  The trader is the latest bank employee to lose his job as HSBC and other lenders have paid out billions of dollars to regulators over misconduct in their currency operations. Stuart Scott, the head of foreign exchange trading for Europe, the Middle East and Africa at HSBC, was dismissed on Tuesday, said the person, who was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly. Mr. Scott had been employed by the bank since January 2007, according to a register of financial services employees maintained by the Financial Conduct Authority of Britain. Regulators say that a group of London traders, known as the “cartel” and the “mafia,” illegally dipped into the $5.3-trillion-a-day currency trade. HSBC declined to comment on Wednesday. Mr. Scott could not immediately be located for comment on Wednesday. The Wall Street Journal reported his departure earlier on Wednesday. In November, some of the world’s largest banks, including HSBC, agreed to pay a combined $4.25 billion to settle inquiries by regulators in the United States, Britain and Switzerland. Regulators accused the banks of conspiring to manipulate benchmark rates used in foreign currency markets. More than 30 traders at some of the world’s largest banks have been suspended or fired after internal inquiries. Several of those traders could potentially face criminal charges, depending on the outcome of investigations by the United States Justice Department and the Serious Fraud Office of Britain. In November, HSBC agreed to pay about $618 million as part of settlements announced with the Financial Conduct Authority and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. After the settlement, HSBC said it did “not tolerate improper conduct, and will take whatever action is appropriate.” A version of this article appears in print on 12/11/2014, on page B10 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Currency Inquiry Fallout. Advertisement