Auto sales are booming. Low gas prices are enticing more people to buy higher-priced sport utility vehicles. All this means it could be another stellar year for banks that make auto loans. So why do some investors seem so glum about one of the nation’s largest auto lenders, Ally Financial? The bank’s share price is down 16 percent since it went public in April. And late on Monday, Ally’s chief executive, Michael A. Carpenter, retired abruptly in a move that had some industry analysts scratching their heads. “Candidly, we’re disappointed with the recent performance of the stock price,” Ally’s new chief executive, Jeffrey J. Brown, said in his first call with analysts on Thursday. “I think our story has been a little too focused on the past and not enough about the future.” The shake-up at Ally is the latest phase in the company’s seemingly perpetual state of reinvention. The former GMAC was a large auto lender that invested heavily in mortgages, a move that nearly destroyed it. After the financial crisis, Ally emphasized how it was different than other banks, running commercials of children being duped (and in one spot, being offered a pony) by a fictitious banker. It also gained notice by offering higher yielding C.D.s in an era of low rates. Lately, Ally has been vowing to bolster its auto lending business. The latest turn comes after a long and painful separation from General Motors, its former parent. The fortunes of the two companies have diverged in recent years. General Motors breezed through a quick bankruptcy in 2009 and went public the next year. It has been a more convoluted and uneven recovery for Ally, which finally paid back the last of the Treasury’s $17.2 billion investment in the company in December. While Ally — the nation’s 15th largest bank by assets — is no longer systemically important, there is still a great deal riding on the lender’s success. Ally has served as a grand experiment of sorts for restructuring and deal making, on which Wall Street bankers like Mr. Carpenter, 67, have staked their legacy. And as the Treasury has gradually sold off its shares, the company has attracted big investments from hedge funds like Third Point and Perry Capital. In recent months, it had become clear that Mr. Carpenter, a former Citigroup banker, was not the best leader for the future, according to people briefed on the board’s thinking. The board had become frustrated that the company had stagnated, one of these people said, and Mr. Carpenter seemed to lack the vision to guide Ally out of its current challenges. On Thursday, both Mr. Brown, who ran Ally’s auto dealer finance unit, and the company’s chairman, Franklin W. Hobbs, praised Mr. Carpenter for rescuing the company from near collapse. It was decided that Mr. Carpenter, who had been planning his retirement for months, would step down after the company reported its fourth-quarter results last week. “As taxpayers, we should all thank him for helping turn Ally around,” said Mr. Brown, a former Bank of America banker, who is called J.B. The government ultimately generated a $2.4 billion profit from the Ally bailout. Still, investors say they were bothered that Ally made no mention of Mr. Carpenter’s impending departure on its earnings conference call last week and then waited for three days after his retirement was announced on Monday to publicly introduce Mr. Brown, 41. An Ally spokeswoman said Mr. Carpenter was not available for an interview. One of the company’s shortcomings under Mr. Carpenter is something that taxpayers and regulators might consider a virtue: Its lending practices have been too conservative. The board is allowing the company to ramp up its lending to people with less-than-stellar credit. Such “nonprime” loans — which the company defines as loans to people with credit scores around 620 — can be more profitable than the prime, lower-interest-rate loans that Ally focuses on. In the fourth quarter, roughly 9 percent of Ally’s loans were non-prime. Mr. Brown said he would like to increase that to as high as 15 percent. Now that it has paid back the government, the bank also expects regulators will loosen restrictions on how Ally can hold riskier loans, which could also bolster profits. However, Ally’s plans to increase riskier lending come at a time when regulators are raising concerns across the industry about the boom in subprime auto loans. Ally’s concentration on prime loans may make regulators happy, but the profits are relatively slim, particularly when many large banks are barreling into the sector and offering borrowers increasingly lower interest rates. The bank is also fighting off competitors in another area it has long dominated — lending to auto dealers so they can purchase cars from manufacturers and then sell them to buyers. Many bigger banks are undercutting Ally on price on this so-called “floor plan” financing and taking away business. “It is hand-to-hand combat,” Mr. Brown said. For years, Ally’s edge over its competitors has been its close relationship with General Motors and Chrysler. Back in 2009, the federal government believed it was necessary to rescue Ally — then called GMAC — along with General Motors and Chrysler because it provided the primary source of funding for both auto dealers and car buyers. Without GMAC, members of the Obama administration’s auto task force and officials at the Treasury Department worried that General Motors would collapse because no other lenders would fill the void. “We realized that we couldn’t save the car companies without saving GMAC,” said Steven Rattner, a former head of the auto task force. The auto companies bounced back quickly. In 2010, barely one year out of bankruptcy, General Motors purchased the subprime auto lender AmeriCredit, renaming it GM Financial. General Motors wanted a share of the profits from auto lending, rather than farming them out to Ally. At the time, some officials in the Treasury Department questioned why General Motors was making moves that could make life harder for Ally since taxpayers were invested in both companies, according to a person briefed on those discussions. The Treasury decided it did not have the authority to intervene, allowing the companies to act in their own best interests. Simmering tensions between General Motors and its former captive lender are now boiling over. General Motors has started steering certain lease deals for its Cadillac, Buick and GMC brands to its captive lender and away from Ally and other banks. Analysts expect General Motors to eventually move even more of its lease and loan business in house. In what turned out to be his final earnings call last week, Mr. Carpenter excoriated General Motors for its recent decision to move the lease incentives to GM Financial. What angers the company is “when we don’t get the chance to compete” for the lease business, Mr. Carpenter told analysts, employing a vulgar phrase. On Thursday, Mr. Brown took a softer stance, suggesting that Ally did not expect to lose as much of General Motors’ business as some investors fear. “We have a nearly 100-year working partnership together,” Mr. Brown said. “I expect to have a constructive and beneficial relationship with them in the future.” Last year, about 80 percent of Ally’s auto loan originations came from General Motors and Chrysler dealers, down from 98 percent in 2009. Mr. Brown, who was in charge of expanding Ally’s relationships with other dealers, said the company plans to keep growing beyond its former parent. Ally’s share price has climbed about 5 percent since Mr. Brown was named chief executive. Ally is also making the case that when auto sales slow or interest rates rise, many lenders are likely to pack up and move on from the auto sector. But not Ally, the company says. “We are the 800-pound gorilla,” Mr. Brown said. “And I expect us to continue to be.” A version of this article appears in print on 02/06/2015, on page B1 of the NewYork edition with the headline: A Shake-Up as Ally Seeks Brisker Profit. Advertisement