6:38 p.m. | Updated  FRANKFURT — Deutsche Bank, the largest German bank, said on Thursday that its net profit plunged in the fourth quarter after the European sovereign debt crisis and turmoil in financial markets led to a loss in the investment banking division. The results, which were also pulled down by costs related to legal action against the bank, highlight the challenges awaiting the successors of Josef Ackermann, who will retire as chief executive in May. He will be succeeded by Anshu Jain, head of the investment bank, and Jürgen Fitschen, head of regional management worldwide, who will share chief executive duties. Deutsche Bank’s net profit fell 69 percent, to 186 million euros, or $244 million, from October through December compared with the fourth quarter of 2010, a drop worse than analysts had expected. The investment banking division reported a pretax loss of 138 million euros after a profit of 719 million euros a year earlier. Mr. Ackermann acknowledged that the glory days of investment banking, which in the past generated most of the bank’s profits, were probably over for now. But he insisted that Deutsche Bank, which is based in here, could continue to grow by taking business from rivals. “Although the entire pie is likely to be smaller in the future,” he said at a news conference, “Deutsche Bank will be able to handle a larger slice.” Profit also was hurt by a loss of 373 million euros related to Deutsche Bank’s exposure to Greek bonds, and a 655 million euro loss related to lawsuits, including one brought by the United States government. Mr. Ackermann said that the bank booked more losses in the most recent quarter than necessary so it would leave the new chief executives with a clean slate. He said that was his “going-away present” to his successors. Besides confronting the debt crisis and its effect on trading and deal making, Mr. Jain and Mr. Fitschen must address legal attacks in Germany and the United States that have hurt the bank’s reputation; they were the subject this week of a cover article in Der Spiegel, a widely read German magazine. On Tuesday, a regional court in Frankfurt ordered Deutsche Bank to pay 15 million euros in damages to the German travel company Schauinsland-Reisen. The company’s suit claimed the bank did not provide adequate advice on a derivative it sold to hedge currency risks, Bloomberg News reported. The lawsuit by the United States government accuses Deutsche Bank of lying about the quality of home loans it handled under a government program. The United States is demanding that the bank repay hundreds of millions of dollars of losses on those loans. Mr. Ackermann denied that the bank’s reputation had suffered, and presented opinion surveys showing that the bank was better regarded than its peers. He suggested that some of the legal actions against the bank reflected sour grapes on the part of investors. “Everyone who has lost money tries to get it back,” Mr. Ackermann said. But he also conceded, without being specific, “We did things that in retrospect should be seen critically.” While Mr. Ackermann held center stage at the news conference, which attracted several hundred journalists, Mr. Jain began to emerge as a more public figure. He answered several questions, speaking English in contrast to Mr. Ackermann, who spoke mostly German. Mr. Jain and Mr. Fitschen, the other soon-to-be co-chief executive, mingled with journalists afterward, though Mr. Jain drew a larger crowd. He said there was “no substance” to reports that he and Mr. Ackermann had become estranged, and gave his predecessor some of the credit for turning Deutsche Bank into a force to be reckoned with in investment banking. “Joe and I have had a very close working relationship for 10 years,” Mr. Jain said. “He has supported everything we have done.” In Germany there is widespread skepticism about whether Mr. Jain is the right person to lead Deutsche Bank when it is trying to reduce its dependence on the boom or bust profits of investment banking. The unit that includes the bank’s retail branches in Germany made a fourth-quarter profit of 227 million euros, the bank said, an increase of 5 million euros from the period a year earlier. Mr. Fitschen, who oversees the German unit of Deutsche Bank, is expected to concentrate on expanding services to consumers and businesses. In addition, Paul Achleitner, chief financial officer of the German insurer Allianz, will become chairman of the supervisory board. Typically German supervisory board chairmen are elder statesmen who play a discreet role. But at 55, Mr. Achleitner, former head of Goldman Sachs in Germany, is in his professional prime and is expected to be an active overseer. As a result, there is concern that the bank will lack one leader with undisputed authority. Mr. Ackermann defended the arrangement, saying, “We found a solution that covers the needs of the bank well.” Advertisement