LONDON – Just when bankers thought pay rules in Britain could not become any more complicated, the head of the Bank of England said on Monday that they might need to be.  In a speech in Singapore called “The Future of Financial Reform,” Mark Carney, the governor of the Bank of England, said that new rules might be needed to regulate salaries, or what people in London call “fixed pay.”  “Standards may need to be developed to put nonbonus or fixed pay at risk,” Mr. Carney said.  Mr. Carney is responding, or perhaps subtly complaining, about the bonus cap passed by the European Union, which limits bonuses to one or two times fixed pay. Britain does not like this rule and is suing in the European Court of Justice to block the law.  That rule is getting in the way of the Bank of England’s own latest rules, which say bonuses must be deferred for a minimum of three years and bonuses -– vested and unvested – should be clawed back for up to seven years if misconduct is uncovered. They are intended to curb the reckless risk-taking that many people found to be central to blowing up the financial system in 2008.  But the bonus cap causes such distortion that fixed pay will have to be regulated too, Mr. Carney said.  “It is unfortunate, for example, that new European rules to cap bonuses to half (or with shareholder approval, two-thirds) of total pay have the undesirable side effect of limiting the scope for remuneration to be cut back,” he said. “This makes the case for additional reforms to ensure that the burden of excessive risk-taking and misconduct by staff can still be borne by those staff.”  The bonus cap means banks have to pay more in fixed pay to keep compensation levels competitive. With more fixed pay and less variable pay, there is less money available to claw back. If the British rules are intended to discourage bad behavior, but less money is available to be clawed back because bonuses have morphed into fixed pay, then it is time to regulate fixed pay as well, Mr. Carney said.  Mr. Carney is not the only one weighing in on banker pay, where rules seem to be permanently in flux.  In response to the bonus cap, for example, banks introduced “allowances,” extra money that many argued was fixed pay even though it could be varied in all sorts of ways. The European Banking Authority, another regulator, said recently that the allowances were in fact variable pay and violated the cap.  Further confusing matters, the Prudential Regulatory Authority – tucked in the Bank of England and also a regulatory body – signed off on the allowances. So they all have to work that out.  Then, on Sunday, a group of lawmakers who served on the Parliamentary Committee on Banking Reform said the new Bank of England rules did not go far enough. They said that the banks should defer bonuses for longer periods, maybe 10 years, and that the rules should apply to a bigger group of people, which would include foreign exchange traders and those involved in the scandal over the London interbank offered rate, or Libor.  They joined in the chorus of those outraged by the $4.25 billion paid by some of the world’s largest banks to settle accusations by British and United States regulators that the banks manipulated the foreign exchange market.  All of which is to say that American bankers who are haggling over pay now should at least be grateful that they do not live in London, where one might call attempts to regulate pay a full-blown fight.  Advertisement