LONDON — Fairfax Financial Holdings of Canada has agreed to buy the specialty insurer Brit for $1.88 billion in cash. Brit, which is based in London, went public less than a year ago in an offering that valued the firm around 960 million pounds, or about $1.6 billion using the exchange rate at the time. Brit is a member of the Lloyd’s of London insurance market, in which syndicates of specialist companies join together to share the risk in underwriting policies. The Lloyd’s marketplace wrote the first aviation insurance policy, insured Betty Grable’s legs and provided coverage for a 69-carat diamond that the actor Richard Burton bought for Elizabeth Taylor. The deal is expected to expand Fairfax’s presence in the Lloyd’s marketplace, complement Fairfax’s existing operations and help diversify its risk portfolio. Under terms of the offer, investors will receive £3.05 ($4.68) in cash for each share of Brit they hold, including the company’s final dividend for the year ended Dec. 31, 2014. The offer represents an 11.2 percent premium to Brit’s closing price on Monday. Shares of Brit rose more than 10 percent, to £3.02, in trading here on Tuesday. “Brit has an outstanding track record over the last 10 years and will continue to operate on a decentralized basis once owned by Fairfax,” V. Prem Watsa, Fairfax’s chairman and chief executive, said in a news release late Monday. “With the acquisition of Brit, Fairfax will have a significant top five position at Lloyd’s of London.” Brit was acquired by the private equity firms Apollo Global Management and CVC Capital Partners in 2010. Apollo and CVC sold about 25 percent of the firm in an initial public offering last March. As part of the Fairfax deal, entities managed by Apollo and CVC have agreed to irrevocable undertakings to accept the offer. Those entities hold a combined stake of about 73 percent of Brit’s shares. The transaction is subject to regulatory approval. “Brit’s board is pleased to recommend the combination with Fairfax, which I believe will bring us significantly closer to realizing our strategy of building the leading global specialty reinsurer,” Richard Ward, Brit’s chairman, said on Tuesday in a news release. “Our two businesses are highly complementary, and the proposed deal provides both groups with an exciting opportunity to deliver our respective growth ambitions.” A version of this article appears in print on 02/18/2015, on page B5 of the NewYork edition with the headline: A Canadian Finance Firm Agrees to Buy a British Specialty Insurer. Advertisement