Updated, 8:37 p.m. | When Lending Club makes its debut on the New York Stock Exchange on Thursday, it will carry the hopes of an entire industry. The company, whose online marketplace matches people who are seeking loans with investors willing to provide them, emboldened its peers late Wednesday when it raised about $870 million in its initial public offering, surpassing expectations. Lending Club’s offering — which values the company at $5.4 billion — will set a template for potentially dozens of others that hope to join the public markets, carving out a new niche for so-called peer-to-peer lending alongside the traditional banks such companies have hoped to partly displace. One rival, OnDeck Capital, is scheduled to go public within days. “It’s a huge moment for marketplace lending and alternative lending,” said Aaron Vermut, the chief executive of Prosper, a Lending Club rival. “It’s a big coming-out party for what we do.” An amalgam of finance and technology, Lending Club has drawn fans across not just Silicon Valley but Wall Street as well, including luminaries like Lawrence H. Summers, the former Treasury secretary; John J. Mack, the former chief executive of Morgan Stanley; and Mary Meeker, the onetime star technology analyst turned venture capitalist. With strong investor demand, Lending Club sold shares at $15 each, above an already increased price range of $12 to $14. If Lending Club’s underwriters use an option to buy more shares from the company to meet investor demand, the size of the I.P.O. could rise to about $1 billion. But the company — now beholden to the heightened scrutiny that comes with having public shareholders — will also shoulder the burden of proving the durability of the peer-to-peer lending model. Though the industry has exploded in popularity in recent years, some analysts worry that such companies could falter if any of a number of conditions change: a rise in interest rates that prompts more defaults; ill-fated business expansions; or lawsuits from irate investors. “An analyst told me, ‘This industry has grown up in the absolute perfect environment for it,’ ” said Peter Renton, who both runs the Lend Academy blog and invests in the industry. “Eventually, some of those factors are going to turn.” Analysts think that the industry has significant room to grow. Peer-to-peer lenders have originated about $4 billion to $5 billion in loans so far this year, according to Fitch Ratings, a fraction of overall bank lending. Yet investors appeared intensely focused on the explosive growth that Lending Club has enjoyed. From 2009 to 2013, the company’s annual operating revenue leapt to $98 million from $1.3 million. That pace has scarcely let up; the company reported $143.9 million in operating revenue in the first nine months of this year. And since its inception, Lending Club has financed more than $6.2 billion worth of loans. The company collects a percentage of that sum, paying out the rest to investors in those loans. Driving the business is a relatively simple idea: using technology to shake up the traditional idea of lending. Rather than make loans directly from their balance sheets, the start-ups instead match borrowers with individuals and institutions willing to put up the money for at least part of those loans. For most of its existence, Lending Club has focused on fairly safe loans. Customers have a FICO credit score of roughly 660 and can borrow up to $35,000 for three to five years, usually to refinance credit cards or other expensive debt. Such relatively small loans, the company has argued, have become too unprofitable for big banks to make these days. Loans originated through the company carry, on average, an interest rate of about 14 percent, below the average rate of standard credit cards. That business has proved lucrative for both investors, who have collected nearly $596 million in interest since May 2007, and Lending Club’s own executives. At the I.P.O. price, the value of the shares held by Renaud Laplanche, the sailing enthusiast and lawyer who founded the company, will be $223.5 million. And the holdings of Mr. Mack will be $37.5 million, and $15 million for Mr. Summers. Yet peer-to-peer lenders have begun moving away from personal consumer loans into other areas. Lending Club, OnDeck and others now offer small-business loans, while Prosper has teamed up with another company to help borrowers finance cosmetic surgery. “They could do potentially everything, every type of consumer and commercial loan,” said Brendan Sheehy, an analyst at Fitch Ratings. Still, analysts are wary of potential pitfalls. Rising interest rates could test the reliability of the lenders’ underwriting standards — which some analysts have questioned, given the significant amount of self-reported data furnished by borrowers — if defaults begin to pile up. Another concern, Mr. Renton said, is that these companies will eventually cater to lower-quality borrowers who are at higher risk of default. Mr. Vermut of Prosper contended that those riskier loans weren’t as attractive from a financial perspective because they would most likely be smaller. And while the industry calls itself “peer-to-peer,” that name is a bit of a misnomer. Big institutions like mutual funds and hedge funds now make up most of the investors in these marketplaces, Mr. Sheehy said. And those firms could prove to be flighty if problems start arising. Still, Mr. Renton says that Lending Club, at least, will survive any shake-up. The company has shown that it can hit its ambitious financial projections, reducing pressure from its new public shareholders to find new ways to propel its growth. “I don’t see them screwing up anytime soon,” he said. “I think Lending Club, in some ways, would welcome a downturn.” A version of this article appears in print on 12/11/2014, on page B1 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Lending Club Set to Debut, and Industry Is Watching. Advertisement