BEIJING — The Dalian Wanda Group, the Chinese property and entertainment conglomerate, signed an agreement on Tuesday to buy  the sports marketing company Infront Sports and Media for $1.2 billion. Wanda purchased a 68.2 percent stake in Infront from Bridgepoint, a European private equity firm. The acquisition of the company, based in Switzerland, will ‘‘drive the development of Chinese sports industry and its interest around the globe,’’ Wang Jianlin, chairman and  founder of Wanda, said in a statement.  Wanda did not disclose who would hold  the remaining Infront shares. Mr. Wang, one of China’s wealthiest investors, also said at a signing ceremony that the company would acquire at  least two more ‘‘cultural companies’’  this year. Wanda plans to generate 20  percent of its projected $100 billion revenue in 2020 from overseas. The president and chief executive of Infront, Philippe Blatter, the nephew of  Sepp Blatter, the president of the soccer federation FIFA, said in the statement  that the two parties would ‘‘jointly  tackle a variety of major expansion projects.’’ Mr. Blatter will continue heading Infront after the acquisition. In recent years, Wanda, which started  as a real estate developer in China, has been on a shopping spree, buying entertainment and cultural companies. Last  month, the company bought a 20 percent stake in the Spanish football club  Atlético Madrid. In 2012, it purchased  the American movie theater chain AMC  Entertainment Holdings. ‘‘We want to boost and strengthen the  cultural industry,’’ Mr. Wang said at  Tuesday’s ceremony, held in a glittering  conference room decorated with large  cymbiform lamps at Wanda’s Sofitel  Hotel in Beijing’s central business district. ‘‘Our president has said he has three  dreams: to make it into the World Cup,  to host one and to win one,’’ Mr. Wang  said, referring to President Xi Jinping of  China. ‘‘Infront has the capabilities and  resources to help us accelerate the  achievement of these three dreams,’’  Mr. Wang said. He and Mr. Blatter were  seated on a stage flanked by a half- dozen tall and slim waitresses in flowing  gauze dresses. Infront, with more than 600 employees in 13 countries, is a leading player in  the sports marketing industry. It is the  sole sales representative for ‘‘distribution of Asian broadcast rights’’ for the  2018 and 2022’s FIFA World Cup, the  company said in 2011. Advertisement