Advertisement Supported by Campaign Spotlight By Stuart Elliott The designation of weeks or months for cause-related marketing purposes has become so familiar that they now seem, in most instances, to fade into the woodwork. When almost every week or month is a “Week” or “Month,” they can lose their power to motivate consumers to become donors or lend a helping hand. A leading liquor marketer and a magazine are joining forces this week for a week with a twist, no pun intended. For Negroni Week, which begins on Monday and continues through Sunday, the participating bars and restaurants get to choose which charities will receive the donations from patrons and customers. The organizers are Campari America, which sells Campari liqueur — an essential ingredient for a retro-chic Negroni, along with gin and sweet vermouth — and Imbibe Media, the publisher of Imbibe, a magazine with print and online editions. Each participating establishment is asked to designate a portion of proceeds from each Negroni sold — typically $1 or $2 — to a charity of its choice. Campari America will donate $10,000 to the charity of the bar or restaurant that raises the most money. Negroni Week is being promoted with the themes “A drink for your cause” and “7 days, 3 ingredients, 1 simple way to give back.” In addition to a website, negroniweek.com; there is print advertising, in publications owned by Voice Media; online ads, on Thrillist; and a presence in social media like Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and YouTube, using the hashtag #NegroniWeek. Imbibe, which is based in Portland, Ore., is handling the creative elements of the promotional campaign and a public relations agency in New York, M Booth, is handling the generation of “buzz” in social media as well as engaging bartenders in the effort. Campari America is involving its social networks, too, in tandem with an organization called the United States Bartenders Guild. The cost of the entire effort is being estimated at less than $1 million. This is the second time that Imbibe and Campari have teamed up for Negroni Week. Last year, more than 120 participants raised more than $10,000. This year, the organizers expect at least 1,100 participating establishments, and the fund-raising goal is $100,000. This year, in addition to Negronis — a drink that has been making a comeback as part of the revival of cocktail culture — participating establishments will be selling items inspired by the Negroni, among them Negroni Pops, at Humphry Slocombe ice cream in San Francisco; Negroni macarons, at Bouchon in Beverly Hills, Calif.; Negroni pie, at Butter & Scotch in Brooklyn; Negroni popcorn, at Perbacco in San Francisco; and Negroni gumdrops, at Aveline and the European, also in San Francisco. Many of the intended beneficiaries of the 2014 Negroni Week are local food banks and food-focused charities like Food Bank for New York City and Citymeals-on-Wheels, also in New York; SF-Marin Food Bank, for San Francisco and Marin County; and Urban Gleaners, in Portland, Ore. Several other organizations that are to receive donations are devoted to rescuing and helping animals, like the Pixie Project in Portland and Social Tees Animal Rescue in New York. There are also other causes being singled out for assistance, among them Un86’d in Chicago, which helps people who work in the hospitality industry deal with unexpected expenses, and Project Night Night in San Francisco, which benefits homeless children. The genesis of Negroni Week, says Dave Karraker, director of marketing for Campari at Campari America in San Francisco, was a decision by Imbibe to “team up with a bunch of local bars” in Portland after a huge tornado wreaked havoc in Oklahoma in May 2013; $1 from each Negroni sold at the bars was donated to the Red Cross. “It was ad hoc and came together in a couple weeks,” Mr. Karraker says. “This year, we decided to make it bigger, and allow the bars to raise money for the charities of their choice: what works for their community, what works for their consumers.” The Negroni works as a foundation for a fund-raising week for several reasons, according to Mr. Karraker. One reason is that “it’s easy to make, hard to screw up, and it allows for a little bit of creativity,” he says. A second reason is the revival of the Negroni, which, The New York Times wrote last year, is “having a bit of a moment now” because it is “an easy way to fly one’s flag as a knowing cocktail classicist.” Karen Foley, publisher of Imbibe Media, offers some additional reasons. Because the Negroni is “a timeless cocktail that has a great story” — it is widely believed to have been invented in 1919 in Florence, Italy — it is “a cocktail bartenders love,” she says. (They also love it because of its simplicity, she adds.) The Negroni is also “the favorite cocktail in the Imbibe office,” Ms. Foley says. “We’re all kind of Negroni obsessives.” “There was also an event in Portland, the Negroni Social, at Nostrana, a restaurant that has a Negroni of the Month program to raise money for a charity in town called Outside In,” she adds, which helps homeless youth and the poor. That led Tracy Howard, a senior editor at Imbibe, to ask, “'How about Negroni Week?'” Ms. Foley recalls. “She is like our No. 1 Negroni obsessive.” The response to last year’s event led to the decision to “get more organized” this year, she says, and “blow it up, get a ton more bars and a ton more money.” “Our goal was to get 500 bars” for 2014 and “obviously, we’ve exceeded that,” Ms. Foley says, pleased. If anyone questions the idea of basing a fund-raising initiative on an alcoholic beverage, Ms. Foley is ready with answers. “It’s all in the spirit of giving and celebrating,” she says. “We’re not trying to encourage overindulgence.” The Negroni is “a sophisticated cocktail, too, for an audience that appreciates the cocktail and the story behind it,” she adds. “It’s not a cocktail you’d want to do shots over.” For Campari America, which is part of the Gruppo Campari division of Davide Campari-Milano, the heyday of Campari sales had been the 1970s, when, Mr. Karraker says, “Campari and soda was this sophisticated, hip, groovy drink.” Sales in recent years remained flat, he adds, until 2010, when the cocktail culture began taking off and “you had the rise of the mixologist as a culinary artist.” Campari sales rose 4 percent in 2010 from 2009, Mr. Karraker says, listing the subsequent spikes as 16 percent in 2011 compared with 2010, 12 percent in 2012 compared with 2011, and 12 percent in 2013 compared with 2012. The video for Negroni Week, which can be watched on the special website and YouTube, begins with a title card, “Imbibe and Campari Present Negroni Week,” and features scenes in bars in Los Angeles, New York, Portland, San Francisco, Seattle and Kansas City, Mo. The “grass-roots, local efforts” to encourage bars and restaurants to take part in the week are being primarily focused in Chicago, Los Angeles, New York, Portland and San Francisco, says Lauren Swartz, senior vice president for the lifestyle group at M Booth, which is the trade relations and public relations agency for Campari and another Campari America brand, Aperol. “Built into everything we do is digital engagement,” Ms. Swartz says, “and for this program, we’re building word of mouth online and offline” through the involvement of “passionate influencers” who dote on Campari and the Negroni, among them bartenders, chefs and celebrities. They include Joe Campanale, a beverage director and restaurateur, she adds, and the actor Ty Burrell, an owner of a bar in Salt Lake City named Bar-X. ------- If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that appears Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS