Advertisement By JULIE BOSMANMARCH 10, 2014
 Thriller writers have a knack for picking settings that are inherently suspenseful. A sinking yacht. The homicide unit of a police department. A secret lair stocked with covert C.I.A. operatives. Chris Pavone, the author of the forthcoming novel “The Accident,” went in a different, somewhat dubious direction: He chose the book business. In “The Accident,” which will be released on Tuesday by Crown Publishers, Mr. Pavone has fashioned a meticulously plotted thriller following a New York literary agent, Isabel Reed, who is slipped a manuscript with damning revelations about a real-life media mogul. After receiving the manuscript, Ms. Reed tries to flee her agency and the unknown villains who are following her. “Any setting can be a good setting for a novel,” Mr. Pavone said, sitting on a plush, cocoa-colored sofa in his Greenwich Village living room, shrugging off the suggestion that the industry is too cerebral, too dominated by meetings, too absorbed by reading manuscripts and filling out profit-and-loss reports to make riveting fiction. Advertisement Mr. Pavone (pronounced puh-VOH-nee), who is 45, is not the typical suspense writer who speedily produces a book or two each year. But he does bring an unusual résumé to the task of making the publishing industry seem thrilling: He spent decades working as an editor, primarily at Clarkson Potter, an illustrated-book publisher, where he worked on nonfiction titles about interior design, dogs, cocktails and food, among other things. His first novel, “The Expats,” was published in 2012 and sold nearly 200,000 copies, winning critical raves and an Edgar Award. Advertisement He is also half of a formidable publishing power couple. His wife, Madeline McIntosh, is the president and chief operating officer at Penguin Random House and one of the industry’s most influential executives, often mentioned as a potential successor someday to Markus Dohle, the company’s chief executive. It was Ms. McIntosh’s ascending career that indirectly led Mr. Pavone to start writing fiction in the first place. In 2008, she took a high-level job at Amazon that required the couple and their twin sons, 4 years old at the time, to move to Luxembourg, where Amazon has corporate offices. Mr. Pavone, who by then had quit his job as an editor to be a ghostwriter, was forced to abandon that line of work, which required considerable face-to-face contact. Ms. McIntosh was clocking long hours as an executive at Amazon. The first year “didn’t work,” Mr. Pavone said firmly. “Everything was hard about it,” he said. “I was lonely. I didn’t have any friends.” Many of the fellow expatriates Mr. Pavone encountered were women who had little idea what their husbands actually did for a living, a situation that started his thinking about the deceptions that could exist not only in professional lives but also within families. Those ruminations were eventually channeled into a manuscript that he began writing in cafes in Luxembourg, once he became determined to try his hand at fiction. Mr. Pavone and Ms. McIntosh returned to New York after less than two years when Ms. McIntosh received a tempting job offer from Random House. But Mr. Pavone had in hand the beginnings of “The Expats,” the story of a secret agent who keeps the truth of her real professional life hidden from her family, which was eventually snapped up in a pre-emptive offer from Molly Stern, who had just been made publisher of Crown. After the success of “The Expats,” Mr. Pavone turned to his second book. He began thinking of a novel that took place in the book business, something that relatively few writers had attempted. David Gernert, Mr. Pavone’s literary agent and an authority on the suspense genre, said he couldn’t think of any successful thrillers set in the publishing world. “It’s too hard to make it sexy and exciting,” he said. Advertisement Mr. Pavone said he drew heavily from his experience in the industry when writing “The Accident” — sometimes too heavily.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “I had thinly veiled versions of real people,” he said. “I got rid of that.” Yet there are many characters in “The Accident” that Mr. Pavone gets eerily right. There is the familiar middle-aged editor who is approaching burnout, struggling financially, afraid he’ll never have a hit again, wondering if his career is over. There is a memorable appearance by a luxury-brand-obsessed president of a literary division at a major agency who has a “diligently earned reputation for tossing crazy bombs into meetings.” And there is a cadre of replaceable assistants who are “nearly all from upper-middle-class suburban families, on their second or third jobs after graduating from top-flight colleges with liberal arts degrees, hard-working and broke but not exactly poor, dining on four-dollar-per-plate rice and beans but also accompanying their parents on thousand-dollar-per-night vacations and never worrying about catastrophic health problems.” Once again, Mr. Pavone decided to make a woman the protagonist, an element of his books that his publisher said had brought more female readers to the table. “One of the things that’s inescapable about Chris is that he does women really well,” Ms. Stern said in an interview. “He understands something very true about highly accomplished women. And he’s obviously been deeply connected to a highly accomplished woman in his life.” Betsy Burton, an owner of the King’s English, a bookstore in Salt Lake City, said the book “flashed through the staff,” which is heavily female. “I kind of assumed when I saw the name that the author was a woman,” she said. “He writes about women in a convincing way.” As he prepares for a book tour for “The Accident,” Mr. Pavone said he was working on a third novel, about the travel-magazine world — a setting as seemingly sedate as the book business. But maybe not. “It offers compelling opportunities for a travel-writer protagonist to embark on a secret life of international intrigue,” Mr. Pavone said. For this book, as with the previous two, he has no plans to ask Ms. McIntosh to offer criticisms of his manuscript in progress. “In this environment, Madeline’s job is to be my spouse,” Mr. Pavone said. “So she is a supportive reader, but I’m not looking to her for critical comments. I don’t want them. There are plenty of people in my life who can tear my manuscript to shreds. I don’t need to go to bed with one of them.” A version of this article appears in print on March 11, 2014, on Page C1 of the New York edition with the headline: Secret Agent, Book Agent, All the Same.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »