DealBook told you in September about Aaron Nagler, the biggest Green Bay Packers fan on Wall Street. In his off time, Mr. Nagler, a staff member in the public affairs department of the Blackstone Group, runs CheeseheadTV.com, the most popular fan-run Web site about the Packers. After Green Bay’s 31-25 victory over the Pittsburgh Steelers in Super Bowl XLV on Sunday night, DealBook checked in with Mr. Nagler. We didn’t hear back until early Monday morning, when we found him in his seat at Blackstone’s Park Avenue headquarters. Wait a second. The biggest Packers fan on Wall Street was not in Dallas? Even Goldman Sachs‘s Lloyd C. Blankfein — not a Packers fan — was in the Big D for the big game. Mr. Nagler explained why he stayed home in a post last week. “First — we’re broke,” he wrote, referring to his family. “I know people read about the fact that I work at Blackstone and assume I have gobs of money falling out of every pocket. Sadly, this is not the reality I inhabit. I am way, way down on the Blackstone totem pole — perhaps a tad above the cleaning crew and just below the maintenance guy.”  This DealBook reporter saw a guy on the subway wearing a cheesehead on Monday morning, but it wasn’t Mr. Nagler. The 37-year-old Wisconsin native, who lives in Astoria, Queens, with his wife and three daughters, keeps his avocation as a Packers fanatic largely under wraps at the office. Mr. Nagler said he was coming off the busiest few days of his life, having juggled his work on Blackstone’s earnings announcement last week with all the Super Bowl pregaming on the CheeseheadTV site, which has had record traffic the last several days.  An exhausted Mr. Nagler said he simply could not put into words how excited he was about the Packers championship. What was the second reason he stayed in New York for the Super Bowl?  “To put it as simply as possible — I want to watch the Packers win the Super Bowl with my family,” he wrote. “Call me foolish, tell me I’m angering the football Gods — I don’t care. I like our chances. The Packers are ready to start winning championships. Plural. And I want to watch the first one with my girls.” Advertisement