Accessibility links 
		Monday 30 April 2018 
							By 
											Katherine Rushton, Telecoms, technology and media correspondent 9:45PM BST 23 Jul 2011  With it looking likely that Mr Murdoch will remain in post following a special meeting of the board this week, Mr Odey, who is head of Odey Asset Management and owns around 2.7pc of BSkyB shares, praised Mr Murdoch's leadership skills.   He also argued that News Corporation should loosen its grip on the company by losing one of its appointees to the BSkyB board.   "James is a great strategist and should remain chairman but at the moment BSkyB has got too many News Corp appointees. They need to take one of the News Corp appointees off," he told The Sunday Telegraph.   "For [the Murdoch family] 40pc equals 100pc and all the shareholders are saying at the moment, I don't think 40pc should equal 100pc. They have got to take account of outside shareholders."   Six of BSkyB's 14 directors are on the News Corp or BSkyB payroll, and one of its independent directors, David Evans, has held senior News Corp roles in the past. News Corp owns 39pc of the broadcaster.  
Is it time for James Murdoch to step down?
 
Blow to Rupert Murdoch as Foxtel deal derailed
 
Brush-off in Australian heartland will hurt Murdoch
 
'No phone hacking at WSJ', claims News Corp
 
News Corp hires former US attorney general
 
Murdoch tells staff News Corp will be 'stronger'
  Mr Odey, who used to be married to James Murdoch's half-sister, Prudence, added that he should be "more open" generally, but that his character should not be called into question unless wrongdoing was proven. "He is still innocent until proven guilty," he said.   Mr Odey's public comments come ahead of BSkyB's results on July 29. The eight independent directors will meet the day before to discuss James Murdoch's future and the prospect of a cash return to shareholders.   His words will buoy Mr Murdoch in the face of escalating pressure from analysts for the independent directors to vote him off the board.   Mr Murdoch's chances of remaining as chairman recovered last week following a cool-headed Select Committee performance. But claims by Colin Myler, the former editor of the News of the World, and Tom Crone, its former head of legal affairs, that Mr Mudoch had been "mistaken" in his evidence to MPs again put his position in question. Mr Murdoch has strongly rejected the claims and said that his evidence was truthful.   Expectations are now mounting that BSkyB will issue a special dividend to shareholders following the collapse of its deal talks with News Corp. Analysts say it could issue 80p without recourse to any additional debt, and shareholders could receive as much as 150p a share based on a relatively modest multiple of two times earnings before tax, depreciation and amortisation.   However, they say this would create the uncomfortable situation of a £1bn-plus windfall for News Corporation, and around £400,000 for the Murdochs personally.   The alternatives are for BSkyB to invest the money in new acquisitions or technical upgrades, or to launch a share buy-back. That could also create political and regulatory problems as it would mean News Corp increasing its stake.   Consensus forecasts taken from Bloomberg show that analysts predict a profit before tax of £964m in the year to June 30, against £1.17bn in the prior year.   However, profit in the year to June 2010 was boosted in part by an exceptional gain of £336m due to proceeds from the sale of shares in ITV and a court case against EDS.   Earnings before interest and tax, depreciation and amortisation are expected to rise to £1.39bn.  

 In Phone Hacking 
Top news galleries
 
Martin Chilton selects 30 great one-liners from the comedian and film 
  star Woody Allen
 
A hilarious history of political insults and putdowns, from Churchill to 
  Corbyn 
 
We celebrate and remember the culture stars who have passed away in 2016
 
Great quotes from White House incumbents: will Donald Trump be joining them? 
 
One hundred whip-smart wisecracks
 
From global warming to 9/11, Shakespeare to Elvis, Diana to JFK, peak oil to 
  Roswell, conspiracy theories abound.
 
In pics: Stunning aerial shots of London's football stadia by 
  photographer Jason Hawkes 
 
In pics: The crumbling remains of the Soviet Union's space programme 
 
Ambitious Chinese inventors take on crazy do-it-yourself projects
 
In pics: Sinkholes, craters and collapsed roads around the world
 
Latest Video»
 Back to top © Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2018 Terms and Conditions  Today's News Archive Style Book Weather Forecast