Thanks for contacting us. We've received your submission. 
Business
 By Keith J. Kelly 



 
									February 24, 2011 | 5:00am
												 The executive triumvirate that took over Time Inc. on an interim basis after the ouster of CEO Jack Griffin sent a memo to staffers yesterday outlining how they would carve up their responsibilities.    Last week, Time Warner CEO Jeff Bewkes tapped Chief Financial Officer Howard Averill, Editor-in-Chief John Huey and General Counsel Maurice Edelson to lead the publishing house while the company searches for Griffin’s replacement.    Averill appears to be the biggest gainer in the new lineup. In addition to finance, he will add marketing and ad sales for the US operations, along with the entire British operation, IPC, and the Mexican operation, Grupo Editorial Expansion.    Edelson, who had an angry confrontation with Griffin leading up to his firing, will take over the company’s corporate and administrative groups, as well as strategy.    Huey will remain in charge of the editorial content for storied magazines that include Time, People, Fortune, Sports Illustrated and In Style.    In the process, one lower-ranked executive, David Geithner, a senior vice president in the Style & Entertainment group that includes People, took a big step up the corporate ladder and was given new Time Inc.-wide responsibilities. Geithner is the younger brother of Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner. 
Read Next
 

				Apple shareholder resolution on CEO succession plan fails			
 
Read Next
 

				Apple shareholder resolution on CEO succession plan fails			
 Share Selection 1,537 1,001 749 Post Digital Network 
© 2018 NYP Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved | Terms of Use | Privacy | Your Ad Choices | Sitemap
 
							News Corp. is a network of leading companies in the world of diversified media, news, and information services.						 Get our top stories delivered to your inbox 
																	By clicking above you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.
															 Don't miss out on our other great newsletters