Alan Miller, a corporate adviser who has guided scores of companies through contentious shareholder votes, died on Monday. He was 62. The cause of death was lymphoma, according to a spokeswoman for his firm, Innisfree M&A. Mr. Miller was one of the veterans of the proxy solicitation industry, a lesser-known element of the deal-making universe. While bankers and lawyers put together the mergers, proxy solicitors help companies or major investors persuade shareholders to accept or reject those transactions. Their role is most important in situations like proxy fights, when companies face off against activist investors over competing slates of board nominees. Proxy solicitors are responsible for identifying companies’ shareholders and devising messages to help sway their votes.  Mr. Miller co-founded Innisfree in 1997, naming the firm after William Butler Yeat’s 1892 poem “The Lake Isle of Innisfree” and served as its co-chairman alongside Arthur Crozier. The firm has since grown to 45 employees with offices in New York, London and Pittsburgh. Among the deals he worked on over the years were Hewlett-Packard in its $29.7 billion takeover of Compaq Computer, Burlington Northern Santa Fe in its $26 billion sale to Berkshire Hathaway, Barnes & Noble in its proxy fight with the billionaire investor Ronald Burkle and Airgas in its defense against a hostile bid by Air Products & Chemicals. “He was an inspiring leader with a unique combination of keen intellect, solid judgment and unmatched dedication,” Mr. Crozier said in a statement. “For more than 30 years, Alan advocated fiercely on behalf of his clients around the world.” Alan Miller was born on Dec. 22, 1948, in Manhattan, and attended Stuyvesant High School and Syracuse University. He worked for the Carter Organization and Georgeson, two other advisory firms, before founding Innisfree. He is survived by his wife, Melissa; his mother, Miriam; his sister, Diane; his brother, Larry; and two children, Harry and Josie. Advertisement