8:31 p.m. | Updated  LONDON — The Lloyds Banking Group said on Thursday that it planned to eliminate 15,000 jobs by the end of 2014 and scale back its overseas operations as part of a reorganization aimed at allowing the British government to sell its stake in the company. Lloyds, a lender owned 41 percent by the British government, said it expected to save £1.5 billion, or $2.4 billion, a year by the end of 2014. The savings would come from reducing its international presence to fewer than 15 countries from 30, lowering computer system costs and streamlining middle management. The cuts take place against a background of job reductions at other, larger banks as weaker financial markets and uncertainty about future banking regulation weigh on earnings growth. HSBC, the largest British bank, said on Thursday that it would cut 700 positions in Britain. Goldman Sachs said Wednesday that it planned to lay off 230 employees in New York. Some investors welcomed Lloyds’s plan to streamline the business and focus on its British lending operation. The shares closed 9.7 percent higher Thursday in London but continued to trade below the level of the government’s investment. “The reorganization plan met our expectations and the management came across as a team that has gone through it very thoroughly and know where they want to go,” said Michael Trippitt, an analyst at Oriel Securities in London. António Horta-Osório, the Lloyds chief executive, presented the cost-cutting plan four months after taking over the top job with a pledge to turn around the ailing bank. He said he planned to focus on the consumer banking business in Britain and on lending to small and midsize companies. Lloyds is Britain’s largest mortgage lender and has operations in Australia, the Netherlands, Germany and Ireland. “This bank has lost money and is losing money, and we have to get this bank back on its feet to support the U.K. economy and in order to enable it to repay taxpayers’ money,” Mr. Horta-Osório said. “This will be a journey, and it will take three to five years.” Lloyds, which received government funds to help it through the global financial crisis, is under pressure from London to increase lending while selling some assets to allow for more competition in the banking market. The bank has already started to repay government aid and said it expected to receive offers for 632 branches it has to sell by the middle of July. The savings announced Thursday would allow Lloyds to invest £2 billion in its brand and to expand its wealth management unit, which focuses on high-net-worth individuals with links to Britain. Mr. Horta-Osório said he would concentrate on the bank’s Halifax consumer banking brand and improve customer services, for example by keeping some branches open on weekends. “Lloyds must become leaner, more agile and more responsive to our customer needs,” Mr. Horta-Osório said. Lloyds reported a net loss of £2.4 billion for the first quarter, reflecting the costs of compensation to some clients who were improperly sold loan insurance. The bank ran into trouble in 2008 after the government urged it to buy HBOS, a British mortgage lender that was on the verge of collapse. But this move helped to push Lloyds from profit into loss, and its stock slumped, leading the government to step in with a rescue package. That banks are cutting jobs is no surprise, analysts said. Faced with weak markets, storm clouds in Europe and uncertainty over regulation, business has slowed significantly in recent months. Goldman Sachs cited “economic” reasons for cutting the 230 people, less than 1 percent of the 35,400 it employs around the world. The firm has said it plans to cut head count and hopes to lower its noncompensation expenses 10 percent, or $1 billion, over the next 12 months. The cuts at HSBC will fall mainly in banking services to individuals. About 460 jobs will be cut in the financial advice team in consumer banking and wealth management, as well as 240 support jobs including compliance, human resources and finance, the bank said. Susanne Craig contributed reporting from New York.  Advertisement