7:21 p.m. | Updated  Credit Suisse posted a lower-than-expected fourth-quarter profit on Thursday and said it was cutting its outlook for 2011 to reflect the “new reality” in bank regulation, including tougher capital rules. The bank, based in Zurich, reported fourth-quarter net profit of 841 million Swiss francs ($867 million), up 6 percent from the period a year earlier. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News had expected profit of about 928 million francs. For the full year, net income fell 24 percent, to 5.1 billion francs, compared with 2009. “For 2010, the return on equity attributable to shareholders was 14.4 percent,” the bank said in a statement. “Going forward, in light of Credit Suisse Group’s strategic plan, the target for annualized return on equity attributable to shareholders is set at above 15 percent, down from 18 percent previously.” After “significant progress in defining the new regulatory environment” in 2010, the bank said the new targets “represent a prudent expectation of what our business can generate over the long term.” Brady W. Dougan, the chief executive, suggested that Credit Suisse was taking a more realistic view than some of its rivals. He said that new rules on the banking sector under Basel III and other new capital requirements meant to reduce risk would inevitably reduce profits. “We think it’s actually a recognition of the new reality and the new environment, and it’s a pretty good level,” he said of the new target, which he called “reliable, reasonable,” and one “that we can exceed over time.” Jon Peace, a banking analyst at Nomura International in London, said that in addition to the Basel III changes faced by banks, higher taxes — like those announced by the British government this week — and changes to market structures like those being introduced in the United States by the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul, would inevitably weigh on profitability. Regarding the controversial issue of bank pay, Mr. Dougan said Credit Suisse’s total compensation per person in 2010 was down about 9 percent from the 2009 level, while the bonus pool declined 25 percent. He said the executive board would take no variable compensation in cash form, only deferred, as in recent years. He said more details would come in late March with the annual report. Under Mr. Dougan, the bank has been gaining on UBS in the business of managing assets for wealthy clients. UBS, the biggest Swiss bank, on Tuesday reported fourth-quarter profit of 1.3 billion francs. But it has only just begun to bounce back from the damage of the financial crisis and a conflict with United States tax authorities over suspected tax evaders. Credit Suisse, which avoided a government bailout during the crisis, said it had attracted net new assets of 54.6 billion francs last year, up from the net 41.6 billion francs it added in 2009. The cost of drawing in additional money can be high, and Mr. Dougan has not shied away over the last year from hiring well-paid employees to bring in new clients. Mr. Dougan defended his aggressive hiring on Thursday, saying the investments had left Credit Suisse’s private banking business “very well positioned for a recovery in client activity levels.” Credit Suisse said the appreciation of the Swiss franc against the dollar and euro held back earnings. The stronger local currency means money earned overseas buys fewer francs when it is repatriated. The bank said its Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial strength, stood at a “very strong” 17.2 percent at the end of December, up from 16.7 percent at the end of September. Mr. Peace said that Credit Suisse and UBS faced several competitive disadvantages in the stricter capital requirements imposed on them by the Swiss government. The authorities in Switzerland, having survived a near disaster when UBS’s American portfolio of mortgage-backed securities blew up, want the two banks to carry additional equity as a buffer, insisting, for example, on a minimum of 10 percent Tier 1 capital, compared with the 7 percent German banks must hold. Advertisement