Google‘s $12.5 billion deal for Motorola Mobility is widely considered aggressive, with a hefty 63.5 percent premium that few would dare try to top. But analysts at Macquarie seem to think that one of Google’s biggest rivals — a certain software giant based in Washington State — may step up to the plate anyway. In a research note published on Tuesday, Kevin Smithen of Macquarie wrote that Microsoft may make its own bid for Motorola, driven by the patent war roiling the smartphone world.  Here is Mr. Smithen’s thinking: Microsoft has already sued Motorola for intellectual property violations in its line of Android-based smartphones. Microsoft has already won concessions from another Android handset maker, HTC, and is pursuing claims against Samsung. It is unclear where exactly Motorola’s own skirmish with Microsoft stood as of the Google deal announcement on Monday. But Mr. Smithen thinks that Microsoft might consider just bidding for Motorola outright.  (GigaOm reported on Monday that Microsoft was already in talks with Motorola, though for a patent deal rather than an outright takeover.) In his note, he writes that if Microsoft were to gain control of Motorola’s more than 17,000 patents, “the Android camp would fall even further behind in the patent arms race. Also, MSFT would gain valuable US market share, branding and distribution (esp. at Verizon) that it does not have with Nokia.” But while intriguing, there are a couple of other points to consider. As Mr. Smithen alludes to in his note, Microsoft has already signed a wide-ranging partnership with Nokia, in which the beleaguered phone maker will use only Windows Phone 7. It might be easier for Microsoft to buy the Finnish company, with which it already has an relationship. Then there is the matter of Motorola’s tight bonds with Google, since the phone maker’s resuscitation came largely from the success of its Android-based devices. By contrast, Windows Phone 7 is optimized for Qualcomm‘s processors — for the moment, anyway — necessitating either some changes to the operating system or a switchover from Motorola’s current preference, Nvidia Tegra chips. A slightly lesser factor is that of price. Microsoft currently has a war chest of more than $62 billion, comprised of cash on hand and short- and long-term securities. That compares favorable to Google’s treasure trove of roughly $40 billion. But Microsoft has already committed to at least one big deal, the $8.5 billion takeover of Skype, that would demand the company’s attention. In truth, however, the actual price a buyer would pay is not as high as a deal would initially seem. Motorola has about $3 billion in cash on its books, which Google is already discounting. And it has tax benefits, called net operating losses, whose value is conservatively $1 billion. So the real purchase price of the Google deal might be closer to $8.5 billion or less. And then there is the matter of Microsoft taking over a phone maker. Many have already speculated that Google’s Motorola deal will strain its relations with other Android device makers, and some have posited that HTC and Samsung would instead increasingly turn to Windows Phone 7. (For now, those other companies say they are fine with the deal.) But Microsoft would face the same problem as Google if it bought a handset company outright. None of this is to say that Microsoft definitively will not bid, and as Mr. Smithen points out, a successful jumping of Google’s deal would leave Android much weaker. But it is a decision with a lot of hurdles to overcome. Motorola shares fell slightly on Tuesday to $38.02.  Advertisement