8:21 p.m. | Updated  SHANGHAI — Shares of the Chinese social networking site Renren surged on their trading debut in New York on Wednesday, in one of the most anticipated stock offerings to come out of China this year. The stock jumped as much as 71 percent before ending the day at $18 on the New York Stock Exchange, up nearly 29 percent from its initial public offering price of $14. The company raised $743 million from the offering. Renren is one of the few publicly traded social networking sites and the latest symbol of China’s soaring Internet sector. It is the largest social network in the country that has users’ real identities, with more than 117 million users. It also has a daily deal site called Nuomi. “Renren is attracting a lot of interest because investors are looking for long-term winners in the Chinese Internet space,” said Nick Einhorn, a research analyst with Renaissance Capital of Greenwich, Conn. China has the world’s largest number of Internet users, about 457 million at last count. In recent years, the country has had explosive growth in social networking and microblogging services. Last year, shares soared for two other Chinese Internet companies, Dangdang, an online retailer, and Youku, a video site, after they listed in the United States. Renren is known as the Facebook of China. But Facebook, which was valued at $50 billion in a recent investment round, has more than half a billion active users worldwide and is said to have had about $2 billion in revenue last year. In contrast, Renren recorded revenue of $76.5 million in 2010, a 63.9 percent increase from the previous year. It posted a loss of $64.2 million last year. The company, Mr. Einhorn said, also reported a sequential dip in advertising revenue for the fourth quarter of 2010 — a troubling sign for a company that should be enjoying a growth spurt. Demand was high for its shares despite that dip and despite recent questions about the reliability of its user data and the resignation last weekend of the head of its audit committee, Derek M. Palaschuk. The resignation came over accusations of accounting fraud at Longtop Financial Technologies, where Mr. Palaschuk is chief financial officer. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission ahead of its initial public offering, Renren said its monthly user logins had grown by seven million in the first quarter. But more recently, the company said the gain was closer to five million. That did not seem to deter investors, who have been betting heavily on Chinese Internet companies. Investors also know that China’s big three Internet companies — Alibaba, Baidu and Tencent — are among the sector’s priciest players. The market value of Baidu.com is close to $50 billion on the Nasdaq. This year, the company’s chief executive, Robin Li, 42, was named the richest person in China. David Chao, a general partner of the venture capital firm DCM, which owns 7.5 percent of Renren, said he did not believe that valuations for Chinese internet companies had gotten too high. “If you accept the thesis that China is the world’s largest Internet market by number of users and that it will soon become the second-largest media market in the world, then the valuations for the market leaders in each segment of the Internet space — if they can maintain their position long term — are justified,” Mr. Chao said in an interview. Renren’s major shareholders also include Softbank and the private equity firm General Atlantic. David Barboza reported from Shanghai, and Evelyn M. Rusli from New York. Advertisement