performance.mark('first image displayed');Wexford Capital's Charles Davidson.Wexford
UPDATE: We posted this earlier today, before silver slipped about $3.   Shares of iShares Silver Trust (SLV) specifically, slipped 5.25%.   If the firms below are holding the same or more silver today, compared to their December holdings, they're getting slammed.   If gold is the long-term commodities love of the investment community, silver,  surging for months now, was (at  least until two days ago) its hotly-followed mistress.   Now the price is tumbling -- remember when it was hovering near  $50? -- and that means a headache for some investors.   We looked specifically at holders of iShares Silver Trust (SLV), the main silver ETF, for a look at some investors who'll be grinding their teeth if silver continues to drop fast -- in fact today was the largest one-day drop since 1980, according to CNBC.   One major SLV stakeholder is Wexford Capital, a Greenwich-based hedge fund founded by former Goldman and Bear Stearns boys Charles Davidson, Joseph Jacobs and Robert Holtz, that as of Q4 2010 owned 841,000 shares according to Bloomberg data.   That holding, now worth about $36 million, was worth about $39.5 million on April 27 when SLV hit $47. At the end of December that stake was worth about $25 million. That means despite the recent drop, Wexford is still winning.   Wolverine Asset Management, a firm that provides "structural arbitrage strategies to hedge fund investors" and run by Robert Bellick and Christopher Lazarus Gust, had a ~725,000 stake as of Q4.   Alphabet Asset Management, a  New York-based hedge fund run by  "longtime options trader" Jason Adler (and also employing  former Deutsche Bank trader Nelson Saiers) had a ~600,000 stake as of Q4.   One of the best known silver groupies, Eric Sprott of Sprott Asset Management, owned 262,000 shares at the end of 2010.   As a sidenote, Sprott AM was also, as of Q4, one of the biggest hedge fund stakeholders in silver streaming company, Silver Wheaton. The firm also just sold off a chunk of its PSLV holding -- a silver ETF that he launched. Sprott AM  got rid of $35 million in PSLV shares in last fortnight.                                 
                    

        

      "Hedge funds overseen by Sprott... between April 18 and April 25 sold more than 1.6 million shares of the silver trust," according to  ETF Trends. Don't Miss: Everything you need to know about Silver >  Get the latest Silver price here.  