7:33 p.m. | Updated  The Blackstone Group said Thursday that its profit more than tripled in the second quarter, bolstered once again by its huge real estate operations as the market for commercial property continued to improve. “Despite the challenges presented by slowing global economic growth, over all our portfolio companies and real estate investments performed well in the second quarter,” Stephen A. Schwarzman, chief executive of Blackstone, said in a statement. The private equity firm reported a profit of $703.3 million, or 63 cents a share, in the latest quarter, compared with a profit of $205.2 million, or 18 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. Blackstone reports its profit as economic net income after taxes, which excludes charges tied to the firm’s initial public offering in 2007. Those results exceeded analysts’ expectations of a profit of 33 cents a share, according to Thomson Reuters. On a generally accepted accounting principles basis, Blackstone earned $86 million in the second quarter, in contrast to a loss of $193 million a year earlier. Over all, Blackstone’s revenue more than doubled in the quarter, to $1.3 billion, up from $550 million in the 2010 period. Most of Blackstone’s businesses continued to grow as the outlook for private equity brightened. According to Blackstone, the value of its holdings increased 9 percent in the quarter, with the company getting a lift in part from the public offerings of two portfolio companies, Kosmos and Vanguard. Revenue for the division increased to $399.4 million, from $83.9 million a year earlier. The real estate group was a standout performer, as Blackstone bought the United States assets of the shopping mall operator Centro. The group recorded revenue of $648.5 million for the quarter, up from $208.5 million a year earlier. Still, Blackstone is struggling in its smaller advisory business, despite the strength of the deal-making environment. Revenue for the division fell to $104.4 million from $135.6 million a year earlier. Shares of Blackstone rose 74 cents, or 4.6 percent, to $17 on Thursday. Advertisement