
Firm Continues Investment in China’s Economic Growth 
 HONG KONG & NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Lazard Ltd (NYSE:LAZ) announced today that Peter C. Kuo has joined the 
      firm as a Managing Director and Head of Equity Capital Markets Advisory 
      in Asia, effective immediately. Based in Hong Kong, Mr. Kuo most 
      recently served as a Managing Director of Cowen and Company.
      
      “I am delighted that Peter Kuo has joined us in Hong Kong,” said Yan 
      Lan, Head of Greater China Investment Banking for Lazard. “We expect 
      that his depth of experience in capital raising for Chinese companies 
      will be of tremendous benefit to our clients in the region seeking 
      capital markets and strategic transactions advice.”
     
      “Chinese companies are seeking advice on opportunities to raise capital 
      in China and abroad, while non-Chinese based companies are evaluating 
      capital raising involving the China and Hong Kong markets,” said Tom 
      Tuft, Chairman, Global Capital Markets Advisory. “Peter will be a great 
      resource in Asia both for capital raising as well as capital structure 
      advisory related to mergers and acquisitions in the region.”
     
      Lazard’s Equity Capital Markets business provides advice to corporations 
      with respect to all forms of public and private equity, and 
      equity-linked financings, including initial public offerings, follow-on 
      and convertible financings and private placements.
     
      Mr. Kuo was formerly a Managing Director of the wholly-owned Asia 
      subsidiary of Cowen and Company, where he was responsible for the 
      origination and execution of its capital raising transactions for 
      Chinese companies. He began his career at Davis Polk & Wardwell in 1998. 
      A Fulbright Scholar in Taipei, Mr. Kuo received a J.D. from Harvard Law 
      School and a Bachelor of Science in Foreign Service from Georgetown 
      University.
     
About Lazard
 
      Lazard, one of the world’s preeminent financial advisory and asset 
      management firms, operates from 42 cities across 27 countries in North 
      America, Europe, Asia, Australia, Central and South America. With 
      origins dating back to 1848, the firm provides advice on mergers and 
      acquisitions, strategic matters, restructuring and capital structure, 
      capital raising and corporate finance, as well as asset management 
      services to corporations, partnerships, institutions, governments and 
      individuals. For more information on Lazard, please visit www.lazard.com.
     
      LAZ-G
     
      Lazard LtdMedia:Richard 
      Creswell, +44 207 187 2305richard.creswell@lazard.comorMonica 
      Orbe, +1 212 632 6968monica.orbe@lazard.com
 
 
      Lazard LtdMedia:Richard 
      Creswell, +44 207 187 2305richard.creswell@lazard.comorMonica 
      Orbe, +1 212 632 6968monica.orbe@lazard.com
 
