Wall Street’s self-policing organization is getting richer – and so are its top executives.  Richard G. Ketchum, chairman and chief executive of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, earned $2.6 million in 2010, according to a new filing. His pay,  which included a $1.2 million bonus, was roughly the same in 2009.   Finra, a private nonprofit organization that regulates more than 600,000 stockbrokers, upped its total compensation 9 percent last year to $540 million, as it added some 200 new employees to its ranks. The organization’s top 10 executives received nearly $13 million, up from roughly $11 million the year before, the organization’s annual report shows.  Finra says it offers big paydays to compete with compensation on Wall Street. “Finra strives to have a compensation structure that is competitive with the comparable segment of the market,” Mr. Ketchum said in an interview earlier this year. “We have engaged an outside consultant, Mercer, that benchmarks salaries at Finra to make sure they are competitive with that market, but not excessive.” But some brokerage firms, which pay for the watchdog’s operations through fees, have complained that Finra executives are overpaid. Regulators, they argue, should not earn millions of dollars.  Finra drew particular scrutiny after awarding a previous chief executive, Mary L. Schapiro, $7.3 million in 2009, when she left the organization to become chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission. That same year, a small brokerage firm in Moreno Valley, Calif., sued Finra to rein in its pay packages at a time when the regulator was losing money on bad investments.  But Finra, born out of the 2007 merger between the National Association of Securities Dealers and the New York Stock Exchange’s regulatory arm, is now back in the black. The organization turned a $54.6 million profit in 2010, up 12 percent from a year earlier, according to the annual report that was filed this week. Finra lost nearly $700 million at the height of the financial crisis, as its investment portfolio soured. Now, Finra’s investments and trading revenue are driving the recent earnings growth, according to the annual report. In the aftermath of the crisis, Finra shifted its investment portfolio to a lower-risk strategy, which includes mutual funds and hedge funds.  “Financially, 2010 was a sound year overall,” Mr. Ketchum said in the report.  Advertisement