Forest Laboratories defeated Carl C. Icahn in a closely watched proxy fight, as shareholders on Thursday elected all 10 of the drug maker’s board nominees. The company said in a press release that all 10 director nominees were elected by “a significant margin,” at least according to preliminary results. Its slate included three new director candidates. Forest Labs had been embroiled in an intense battle with Mr. Icahn, the activist investor who has waged war against several other drug makers in recent years. Mr. Icahn, who owns a 9.2 percent stake, unveiled his proxy challenge in June.  Mr. Icahn has argued that Forest Labs has lost billions of dollars’ worth of shareholder value over most of the last decade. Shares in the company have fallen 30.1 percent in the last five years. Forest Labs could stand to lose even more after patents expire on two of its most important drugs, Lexapro and Namenda. Until recently, Mr. Icahn had an even more potent cudgel: a federal government plan to exclude the Forest Labs chief executive, Howard Solomon, from conducting business with federal health care programs, which represent roughly 40 percent of the company’s revenue. Earlier this month, the government withdrew that threat. The company has also been criticized over its corporate governance, and its directors have been accused of being too close to Mr. Solomon. Forest Labs has argued that it has a plan to deal with its patent issue, with additional blockbuster drugs to cover for the loss of patent protection for Lexapro and Namenda.  It also agreed to shake up its board a little, including by having two longtime directors not stand for re-election. To bolster its case, the company announced this week that it would augment an existing share buyback program by $350 million. Forest Labs had won the backing of two proxy advisory firms, Institutional Shareholder Services and Egan-Jones. Another, Glass Lewis, recommended that shareholders elect one Icahn nominee, the Harvard genetics professor Richard C. Mulligan. Advertisement