E*Trade is bending to Citadel’s will. The online brokerage company announced on Monday that it had created a new special committee to evaluate the company’s strategic options. The group, made up of three independent directors, has also hired Goldman Sachs to advise.  It’s a  victory for Citadel, the hedge fund led by Kenneth Griffin, which has been pushing Citadel to restructure its board and consider a sale. In tersely worded letters, delivered in July, the firm chided E*Trade’s board for squandering a “phenomenal franchise.” In a list of demands, Citadel directed  E*Trade to look at a sale, declassify its board and eject two directors.Â  In response, E*Trade hired Morgan Stanley to explore a sale and said it would look into changing the board’s structure at next year’s shareholder meeting. Unappeased, Citadel, E*Trade’s largest shareholder, sent another letter, criticizing the process as “awash in conflict” and reiterated its demands for immediate changes to the board. Citadel also said it had filed to convene a special shareholder meeting to address its concerns. Although the conflict seems far from over, Citadel began to back down on Monday. In a new letter to E*Trade, the firm said, “We  trust this new process, involving all directors, will be more  transparent and objective, and look forward to the board and its  adviser, Goldman, Sachs & Company, working quickly to fulfill this  crucial mandate.” The firm also said it had suspended further shareholder action, “including our request for a special meeting.”
 According to people briefed on the matter, Mr. Griffin told E*Trade’s board that he had two main complaints about the company’s process. The first was that he wanted the special committee to be made up only of directors who had joined within the last three years. The second was that he specifically preferred Goldman as an adviser. Morgan Stanley was unacceptable because the bank had done some work for E*Trade in the past, though its last merger advisory assignment was the company’s 2005 $1.6 billion takeover of BrownCo, a unit of JPMorgan Chase. To head off a protracted battle with Citadel, E*Trade agreed to the hedge fund’s demands over the weekend, these people said. Shares of E*Trade fell 13.2 percent on Monday to close at $10.93 per share, amid the broader market decline. Advertisement