As DealBook reported earlier on Wednesday, jury deliberations in the trial of Raj Rajaratnam, the founder of the Galleon Group, hit a snag after a juror dropped out for medical reasons. The judge replaced her with an alternate juror and instructed the panel to begin their deliberations anew. Raj Jury 2.0 got right to work and asked the judge to replay a handful of wiretapped telephone conversations that the government played during the trial. DealBook wants to highlight a portion of one of those calls, but not because it says anything about Mr. Rajaratnam’s guilt or innocence. On Sept. 12, 2008, Mr. Rajaratnam phoned in from outside the office to check on the portfolio. His personal trader, Ian Horowitz, picked up the phone and delivers a monologue that provides a window into the unique lingo of a Wall Street trading floor. Better yet, the conversation happened just three days before Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy. Despite the convulsions in the financial markets, Mr. Horowitz sounds remarkably calm. Raj Rajaratnam: Hey Ian. What’s going on? Ian Horowitz: Same thing when you left, S&P is down 12, NASY is down about 26, Apple’s down about 3 and change. Financials are actually catching a little bit of a bid here. AIG is still down 330, Lehman is trading at 380 right now. There’s a story coming out of the Financial Times that AIG, that CIC, Bank of America and another bank I’ve never heard of are gonna split the assets. Apple just popped. It just went up a dollar, dollar and a half. Michigan sentiment just came out a little bit better. Solar’s acting much better today, it’s up, First Solar is up about 5. Solar is green across the board. I have a scale a little bit up at like 10,000, First Solar that we bought at 203, I have it out there for sale. OIH is about up 2 and change right now.
Crude is up about a dollar. S&P’s are hanging a little bit better, the money centers, Bank of America is down maybe 50 bips, JP Morgan is down about 70 cents, one-and-half percent, Citigroup is down about 2.2 percent. Retail is a little bit heavy across the board. NDRX is down about 3 and change right now in dollar terms.
 Listen to the audiotape of the full conversation or check out the full transcript below. Sept. 12, 2008 Call Between Raj Rajaratnam and Ian Horowitz(function() { var scribd = document.createElement("script"); scribd.type = "text/javascript"; scribd.async = true; scribd.src = "//www.scribd.com/javascripts/embed_code/inject.js"; var s = document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0]; s.parentNode.insertBefore(scribd, s); })(); Advertisement