Evercore Partners is still playing in the big leagues. The investment firm reported second-quarter revenue of $142 million, a 119 percent increase from the period a year earlier, and it posted a profit of $2.3 million, up from $117,000. Using adjusted pro forma numbers, revenue for the quarter was $141 million, and the quarterly profit was $17.8 million.  The 43-cent-a-share profit was slightly below the 44 cents a share analysts had expected. Analyst expectations were based on the adjusted pro forma numbers. Still, it has been a good year for Evercore, the M.&A. advisory specialty firm co-founded by Roger C. Altman, the Democratic power broker who served as deputy Treasury secretary under President Clinton.  The firm has played a role in on some of the largest deals of the year, leapfrogging larger competitors to help AT&T with its proposed $39 billion acquisition of T-Mobile USA and advising Sanofi-Aventis on its $20 billion purchase of Genzyme in the spring.  Last quarter, Evercore advised Exelon in its acquisition of Constellation Energy in a $7.9 billion deal, advised Southern Union on its proposed sale and continued its work on the AT&T/T-Mobile deal, which is still awaiting approval from regulators. Investment banking continued to bring in most of the firm’s revenue, posting $115 million for the quarter, more than double the $48 million in the period a year earlier. The firm’s smaller investment management arm posted revenue of $28 million, up from $17 million in the year-ago period, mostly as a result of gains in its private equity investments. Evercore has bolstered its advisory business in recent months, acquiring Lexicon Partners of London in June and hiring senior bankers including Tony Magro, a former executive at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, to fill high-level spots on its team in the United States.  But adding experienced employees meant paying them well, and the firm gave out $101 million, or 71 percent of its revenue, as compensation this quarter, up from 70 percent in the period a year earlier. That compensation ratio may have to fall if the M.&A. market slows. For now, though, Evercore sees smooth sailing ahead. In a call with analysts on Thursday, Mr. Altman said Evercore had 21 separate fees of $1 million or more this quarter, a record for the firm. “By most standards, Evercore isn’t really a boutique,” Mr. Altman said. “We’re comparing ourselves, as we grow, to a larger universe than what the world commonly think of as boutiques.” Advertisement