Gary Lynch, the former chief legal officer at Morgan Stanley who decamped to Bank of America this year, received a stock award worth approximately $4 million from his new employer, a regulatory filing showed. The filing showed that Mr. Lynch, who began his new job this week, received just over 415,000 restricted stock units on Tuesday. Those options, which would be worth more than $4.1 million if exercised today, will vest in three yearly intervals beginning on Feb. 1, 2012. This is a big signing bonus for Mr. Lynch, a former Securities and Exchange Commission enforcement director who was hired by Bank of America’s chief executive, Brian T. Moynihan, in April to be the bank’s global head of legal, compliance and regulatory relations. In his new position, he will guide Bank of America through its myriad legal problems, including claims stemming from its ill-fated 2008 acquisition of Countrywide Financial, the subprime mortgage giant. Last month, the bank agreed to pay $8.5 billion to settle claims with large investors relating to Countrywide’s mortgage-backed securities.  Mr. Lynch has experience with big settlements. In his S.E.C. post, he led the investigations of Michael R. Milken and Ivan F. Boesky, the central figures in the 1980s insider trading scandal. His investigation of Mr. Milken and his firm, Drexel Burnham Lambert, led to a historic $650 million settlement. At Bank of America, of course, Mr. Lynch will be on the other side of the table. One of his first projects will likely be stating the bank’s case during talks with the Justice Department, state attorneys general and several other major banks over its foreclosure policies and other mortgage-related practices. His job begins the same week the bank is reported to be in settlement talks with the bond insurer MBIA over a mortgage-related lawsuit. In a memo last week announcing Mr. Lynch’s start date, Mr. Moynihan said, “We are looking forward to Gary joining us and getting immediately involved in the issues we are addressing.” Advertisement