6:08 p.m. | Updated  Community Health Systems announced on Monday that it was withdrawing its takeover offer for Tenet Healthcare after Tenet said it had rejected its increased offer. Last week, Community Health raised its bid to $7.25 a share in cash from $6 — representing a premium of 69 percent to where Tenet’s shares were trading in December before Community Health made its first offer.  But it also gave a deadline of  6 p.m. on Monday for Tenet to begin “good-faith discussions” with Community Health. On Monday, Tenet again said that the improved bid “grossly undervalues” the company.  Trevor Fetter, the chief executive of Tenet, in a letter to Wayne T. Smith, Community Health’s chief executive, said, “We believe that the latest proposal fails to offer value sufficient to warrant discussions between Tenet and Community Health.” Tenet also said that its board had approved the buyback of as much as $400 million of its shares.  Community Health is now likely turn its focus to smaller acquisitions of nonprofit hospital systems, Kevin Fischbeck, an analyst with Bank of America Merrill Lynch, wrote in a note to clients.  “This option is no small consolation prize in our view, as many hospital companies are calling the deal environment the best it has been in years (both from a price and availability perspective),” he said. The two hospital chains had been battling since December, when Community Health announced an unsolicited offer of $5 a share in cash and $1 in stock. Tenet had rejected the offer as not being “even remotely fair value.” In April, Community Health converted its bid into an all-cash offer in an effort to protect the value of the deal against the possibility that litigation could hurt Community Health’s stock price. Tenet has sued Community Health, accusing the company of overbilling Medicare through improper patient admissions procedures. Community Health is also being investigated by the Health and Human Services Department over possible improper billing of Medicare and Medicaid Tenet had also adopted a poison pill to restrict Community Health’s ability to acquire stock. Advertisement