The United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit has taken a chainsaw to the Securities and Exchange Commission’s proxy access rule, striking it down in a 21-page opinion.  A panel of three judges from the appeals court based its ruling last week on what it perceived to be the S.E.C.’s failure to fully consider the costs and the benefits of this rule.  With the S.E.C. wounded and proxy access seemingly on life support, if not dead, the question is what comes next?  The S.E.C. has three options: 1.	 Appeal the D.C. Circuit opinion to the full federal appeals court. 2.	Rewrite the rule and address the deficiencies cited by the D.C. Circuit. 3.	Do nothing and let the proxy rule die.
 First, some background on the proxy rule.   Proxy access was vigorously supported by the S.E.C. chairwoman, Mary L. Schapiro. In its proposed form, it required companies to include in the proxy statements for their annual meeting persons nominated by shareholders for election to their boards of directors.  Previously, shareholders had to prepare and circulate their own proxy statements if they wanted to nominate director candidates  not supported by the current boards.  This is a significant expense and a deterrent to nominating new board members.  Not all shareholders could make such nominations. To ensure that only long-term shareholders could do so, the rule required that to make a nomination a shareholder must have continuously held “at least 3 percent of the voting power of the company’s securities entitled to be voted” for at least three years.  Shareholders could group together to reach the 3 percent threshold so long as they met the ownership requirements.  The S.E.C. stated that the purpose of this rule was to “benefit shareholders by improving corporate suffrage, the disclosure provided in connection with corporate proxy solicitations and communication between shareholders in the proxy process.”  The S.E.C.’s proxy access proposal was deeply controversial and opposed by many business interests.  In general, these groups thought that the new rule would harm companies by injecting unqualified directors with their own agendas into the boardroom.  Businesses also objected because the rule would force them to bear the costs of hostile election contests while the benefit of proxy access appeared to be unsubstantiated. The opposition of these business interests was spelled out in a comment letter on the S.E.C.’s rules submitted by the United States Chamber of Commerce’s committee for capital markets effectiveness.  The committee stated that the proposed rule was “unworkable, will harm investors, undermine the management of companies, and erode shareholder value [and] would result in less qualified boards of directors.” The S.E.C. passed proxy access by a 3-to-2 vote last year with the two Republican commissioners objecting.  The rule was set to go into effect for the next proxy season until the District of Columbia Circuit intervened.  So, what will the S.E.C. do next?  The S.E.C. will appeal only if it feels it can win.  The D.C. Circuit panel overturned the proxy rule because it found that the S.E.C. had failed to consider the costs of this rule to companies that opposed these nominations, failed to provide empirical proof as to the benefits of these rules, failed to fully consider whether special interests might act to harm the company in the use of this rule and appeared to be shifting its story on how many nominations this rule might produce.  The D.C. Circuit has a point about the failure to consider fully the costs to corporations.  But the opinion seems rather harsh on the S.E.C., which after all spent years on this rule and issued a 451-page release in support of it.   In particular, the opinion appears to create an almost insurmountable barrier for the S.E.C. by requiring that it provide empirical support amounting to proof that its rules would be effective.  What do I mean?  The D.C. Circuit opinion cites a study by Elaine Buckberg and Jonathan Macey prepared for the Business Roundtable.  In discussing the study, the appeals court panel states that the S.E.C. failed to appropriately consider this study, which found that “when dissident directors win board seats, those firms underperform peers by 19 to 40 percent over the two years following the proxy contest.” But actually, the Buckberg-Macey finding is not from their own independent study.  Ms. Buckberg and Mr. Macey merely state in their letter that they are summarizing the aggregate results of three other studies from the early 1990s that examine companies from the 1960s to 1988. In this light, it is hard to see what the D.C. Circuit’s complaint is since it does not appear that the judges even looked at these underlying studies to assess their relevance In contrast, the D.C. Circuit quickly dismissed a 1998 study cited by the S.E.C. in support of its rule and published in the peer-reviewed Journal of Financial Economics, one of the top finance journals in the world. The appeals court panel states that the study was “relatively unpersuasive” without providing further reasons why this is the case.  In doing so, the D.C. Circuit appears to be making the same bald, unsupported assertions it criticizes the S.E.C. for.  In truth, there is no definitive empirical evidence on this issue and it is likely will not be any.  The issue of how and when director nominations influence boards is probably impossible to empirically prove without doubt. But the D.C. Circuit opinion seems to require such empirical proof. This is despite the fact that such an analysis is not required by the law and that making judgments on mixed evidence is the job of regulators, something the court does not seem to pay heed to.   Meanwhile, the costs and benefits of this rule are almost impossible to quantify.  How do you quantify the costs and benefits of democracy?  And it may be that companies operate better generally in fear of these rules and so the effect is not measurable.  So, the S.E.C. may want to appeal just to attack the opinion’s views on empirical evidence and get more certainty on how to deal with rule-making when costs and benefits are hard to assess.  But I doubt the S.E.C. will do so because the opinion also cites other deficiencies in the rule-making process, including as the failure to measure the costs to companies in fighting these insurgent board candidates.  In addition, the ruling by the appeals court panel was 3 to 0, meaning that the S.E.C. would already be behind if it goes to the entire District of Columbia Circuit Court.   The S.E.C. has invested years in proxy access, so if it does not appeal I also suspect the commission will not let the rule die. Instead, I believe the S.E.C. will rewrite this rule with more analysis along the lines advocated by the D.C. Circuit Court.  But any rule-making process will take another six months to a year as the S.E.C. again deals with the controversial nature of these rules.  Proxy access will at best not be proposed again until 2012 and likely not be effective until 2013.  And there will be another court challenge, meaning a likely delay even beyond that.  So any proxy access proposal is iffy at best and will require years to take effect.  It may also be that no rule will satisfy the D.C. Circuit Court in the absence of full proof.  This appears to turn administrative process on its head, but such is the case.  This leaves any new rule taking effect after the 2012 presidential election.  If a Republican is elected president, the majority of commissioners at the S.E.C. would be Republicans who do not support this rule.  They would likely revoke the rule even before it takes effect.   The future of proxy access is therefore quite hazy.  Even if the S.E.C. does decide to try again, there is a very good chance it will not become effective.  Advertisement