The tumult in the stock market has been a boon for The Brokers With Hands on Their Faces Blog. With traders around the world gesticulating in agony as the financial indexes swoon, a Web site is documenting the suffering.  The Brokers With Hands on Their Faces Blog is exactly what it sounds like and nothing more: a blog that posts photographs of market players putting their hands on their faces. “I guess that in a morbid way the site has suddenly come back into fashion,” said Matthew R. Robison, the blog’s creator. On Friday, the day after the market dropped 500 points, Mr. Robison said the blog’s traffic reached a record of nearly 50,000 visitors. Mr. Robison, 28, started the site in October 2008 during the depths of the financial crisis. Back then he was living in Brooklyn and working as a production assistant at Palgrave Macmillan, the academic publisher. Pictures of pained traders were popping up everywhere, and Mr. Robison thought they were funny. He put together a collage of about 10 of them and sent it around the office. His friends laughed. He posted them on a site he created on Tumblr, a blogging platform with a visual focus. It went viral. “I was cavalier about the financial crisis back then because I had so little money,” he said. “In the beginning it was pure schadenfreude, because for middle-class people like me it’s kind of funny to laugh at stock brokers.” Mr. Robison’s blog is one of a group of Web sites that over the last decade has taken pleasure in Wall Street’s misfortunes. During the housing crisis, the Mortgage Lender Implode-O-Meter gained a large following by tracking the lenders that had run into trouble. And in the dot-com bust, a Web site with an obscene name became popular as it catalogued technology companies as they collapsed. Mr. Robison has taken a more visual approach. Through the spring of 2009, he had published about 100 different images. His blog contains no words, only pictures. One guy rubs his eyes in disbelief. Another covers his mouth in surprise. Yet another scratches his head in confusion. (Sad Guys on Trading Floors, an unrelated site, has a similar format but includes captions and is not limited to traders and their hands.) As the market began its postfinancial crisis rally in 2009 — and brokers presumably stopped putting their hands on their faces — the site went dormant. Mr. Robison also moved on in his personal life, leaving New York to follow his girlfriend to Madison, Wis. But last Thursday during the market downturn, Mr. Robison said he received a couple of dozen e-mails from readers all over the country. One reader, who Mr. Robison said worked for the Web site of a major news network, sent him several new photos of traders in anguish. “So I started things up again, partly out of boredom, but I was also following the debt crisis and felt like I wanted to comment in some way,” he said. Mr. Robison says he thinks that people have responded to the site for a variety of reasons. “With these photos there are a number of layers to laugh at — the poor broker, the photographer waiting to take that perfect photo of the poor broker, the media who love to run with these photos,” he said. “And then there’s me, this guy who collected them and made a blog, which is totally ridiculous as well. People can laugh at whichever part they want to laugh at or maybe they’re not laughing at all. Maybe they think it’s beautiful, or horrible, or stupid. All of them are probably right.” As for himself, Mr. Robison, who grew up in Lake Elsinore, Calif., said that as Wall Street’s problems spilled over onto Main Street — and into his own life — he had stopped finding the humor in market declines. A bank foreclosed on his parents’ home last year. Budget cuts have gutted the public school where his mother teaches. And while Mr. Robison is freelancing for a number of publications, including the popular Web site The Morning News, he says he cannot find steady work in Madison. “I don’t think it’s funny anymore,” he said. “Now it’s kind of sad because I just want the economy to recover.” But he said he would continue to publish photos of brokers with hands on their faces. “I think I’ll keep posting them until I get a job.” Advertisement