5:04 p.m. | Updated  LONDON — The British government announced Tuesday that Frederick A. Goodwin, the former chief executive of the Royal Bank of Scotland, now nationalized, would be stripped of his knighthood. A couple of weeks ago, the country’s prime minister, David Cameron, said that he supported a review of Mr. Goodwin’s knighthood, which Mr. Goodwin received in 2004 for his service to the British banking industry. That honor now looks woefully out of place. The bank, based in Edinburgh, is 82 percent owned by British taxpayers after receiving a multibillion-dollar bailout in 2008. Mr. Goodwin, who gained the nickname Fred the Shred for his cost-saving efforts, left the bank after the government took control of it in 2008. The decision to remove Mr. Goodwin’s knighthood has to be ordered by the queen after receiving advice from the so-called forfeiture committee, made up of high-ranking government officials. In a statement, the committee said Mr. Goodwin’s decisions while chief executive of the bank “meant that the retention of a knighthood for services to banking could not be sustained.” The committee said its decisions were not usually announced in advance, but the scale and severity of Mr. Goodwin’s actions made this an exceptional case. The removal of his knighthood places Mr. Goodwin alongside other notable individuals. Robert G. Mugabe, the president of Zimbabwe, lost his honorary knighthood in 2008 because of violence ahead of a presidential runoff. Jean Else, who helped transform a failing British school, lost her damehood last year for ignoring some standards and promoting her twin sister. Stephen Hester, the current chief executive of Royal Bank of Scotland, said this week that he had decided to turn down his bonus. He had come under heavy pressure from British politicians. Mr. Hester was to receive a bonus of £963,000 ($1.5 million) in stock on top of his salary of £1.2 million. The bank, which announced the bonus on Thursday, confirmed that it had been refused. The bonus would have been less than half what Mr. Hester received last year for 2010, but it caused a public outcry. The share price in the bank has fallen by a third over the last 12 months. Advertisement