
Video

Interview With International Paper Chief


John Faraci, International Paper CEO discusses demand and its role in job growth.

Publish Date September 6, 2011.
                            

                                     by Lucas Jackson/Reuters.
                                







embed










 John Faraci, International Paper CEO discusses demand and its role in job growth. 7:41 p.m. | Updated  After a standoff that has lasted for months, International Paper announced on Tuesday that it had reached a agreement to acquire Temple-Inland with an increased offer of $3.7 billion. International Paper, the world’s biggest paper and forest products company, clinched the deal after raising its offer by 5 percent, to $32 a share in cash from $30.60 in cash. Timothy S. Nicholls, International Paper’s chief financial officer, said in an interview that the two companies began talking last week about a potential sale. Discussions quickly escalated, and the two sides concluded negotiations this weekend. “We had finally reached a point where we were able to hold talks,” he said. The speed of the turnabout took some by surprise. A drawn-out takeover battle had appeared to be in the cards after International Paper announced an unsolicited bid on June 6. Temple-Inland’s board spurned the offer and quickly adopted a shareholders’ rights plan, or poison pill, while International Paper took its offer directly to Temple-Inland’s shareholders. Analysts at Citigroup said that while they expected the two companies to come to terms eventually, “we didn’t expect it to happen until late” in the fourth quarter or early first quarter. The deal came together even as two clouds emerged over Temple-Inland, a maker of corrugated packaging. Last month, the company acknowledged that a paper mill in Bogalusa, La., had discharged chemicals into the Pearl River, killing a large number of fish. Days later, Temple-Inland was accused in a lawsuit of helping cause the failure of a Texas bank it had owned before spinning it off in 2007. In a conference call on Tuesday, John Faraci, the chief executive of International Paper, said the company did due diligence on both issues and “made accommodations for those in our valuation.” International Paper said it would also assume $600 million of Temple-Inland’s debt as part of the deal. Mr. Nicholls emphasized that even at the higher $32-a-share price, the deal promised millions of dollars in cost savings. Much of those are expected to come from combining the two companies’ supply chains and mill operations. He added that International Paper expects layoffs as well, though he said that the company had not decided on a precise figure. With the economy relatively stagnant, he added, it made sense to gain scale by meshing the two together. “We recognize that we’re in a slow-growth period,” he said. “But combining these two businesses makes a lot of sense.” International Paper has said that it has committed financing from one of its financial advisers, UBS. It is also receiving advice from Evercore Partners and the law firm Debevoise & Plimpton. Temple-Inland is being advised by Goldman Sachs and the law firm Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz. Advertisement