Advertisement Supported by Webdenda By The New York Times Scott Christie joined the Toronto office of ClarkHuot, part of the CHR Group, in a new post, creative director. He had been creative director at the Toronto office of Interbrand, part of the Omnicom Group. Ray Colwell joined Nexage, Boston, in a new post, senior vice president for global business development. He had most recently been chief revenue officer at Adelphic Mobile, Waltham, Mass. Digital Kitchen Los Angeles, part of Digital Kitchen, hired two creative directors. One is Jens McNaughton, who had been associate creative director at the Los Angeles office of Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners. The other is Tom O’Neill, who had been a creative director at the Mill, Los Angeles. Factory 360, New York, named staff members for a new office, to be opened in San Francisco. Jamie Ennis will lead the agency’s western expansion, as vice president for West Coast accounts. Also, Matt Carpenter was hired as account director for the office and Winnie S. Fung was hired as market manager. Jane Gould, senior vice president for consumer insights at the Nickelodeon Group, New York, part of Viacom, was named senior vice president for consumer insights and research at a Viacom sibling, MTV, overseeing research efforts for MTV, MTV2, mtvU and mtv.com. Ms. Gould succeeds Nick Shore, who left in July to join a former MTV executive, Judy McGrath, as chief creative strategist for her new joint venture with Sony Music, called Astronauts Wanted: No Experience Necessary. Michelle Harrison, chief executive at TNS BMRB, London, part of WPP, will also serve as the leader of a new WPP unit, a government and public sector practice devoted to working with local, regional and national governments and their agencies. Shannon Jacobs, vice president at the CBS Communications Group, New York, part of the CBS Corporation, was promoted to senior vice president for communications at the CBS Corporation. Farzad Jamal joined Vdopia, Fremont, Calif., in a new post, vice president for Europe, based in the London office of the company, which specializes in mobile video advertising. Mr. Jamal had been commercial director for Europe, the Middle East and Africa at OpenX, London. David Kolbusz will join the New York office of Wieden & Kennedy as executive creative director, effective in the summer. He will fill one of two posts that had been vacant since November, when Ian Reichenthal and Scott Vitrone left to join Barton F. Graf 9000, New York, as partners and executive creative directors. Mr. Kolbusz had been partner and deputy executive creative director at Bartle Bogle Hegarty, London, part of the Publicis Groupe. Wieden & Kennedy is seeking a second executive creative director to join Mr. Kolbusz. Aaron Letscher joined Maxifier, New York, as chief revenue officer. He succeeds Denise Colella, who was promoted to chief executive in October. Mr. Letscher had most recently been senior vice president for client and product strategy at Evidon. Marc Lineveldt joined SK&G Advertising, Las Vegas, in a vacant post, executive creative director. He had been executive creative director at Fitzgerald & Company, Atlanta, part of the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Julian McBride joined the Horn Group, New York, as director. He had been public relations director at Wolff Olins, New York, part of the Omnicom Group. Bill McCaffery joined SFA Marketing, Trumbull, Conn., as vice president for business development. He had most recently been consulting and before that held senior posts at agencies like McCaffery Gottlieb Lane. Curtis Melville joined Lowe Campbell Ewald, Detroit, in a new post, executive creative director, reporting to Mark Simon, chief creative officer. He had been executive vice president and executive creative director at Team Detroit, part of WPP. Lowe Campbell Ewald is part of the Lowe & Partners division of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Randy Morton joined the Los Angeles office of Rapp, part of the Omnicom Group, in a new post, senior vice president and director for integrated production, responsible for overseeing production for the Rapp offices in Los Angeles and San Francisco. He had previously run his own company, Morton Productions, and before that was senior vice president and director for integrated production at Deutsch L.A. Lesley Nadler joined Condé Nast Entertainment, New York, part of the Condé Nast division of Advance Publications, in a new post, executive director for digital video sales. She had most recently been director for digital media and strategic partnerships at Crackle, part of Sony Pictures Television. Naked Communications hired three executives for Naked US, in New York: Adrien Bindi, creative director; Beth Kaiser, head of brand and client development; and Ben Parker, head of strategy. New York Genome Center named Catch New York as its first marketing agency of record. Billings were not disclosed. Shawn Petersen rejoined Cinco Design, Portland, Ore., in a new post, director for digital experience. He had been creative director at Instrument and before that was associate creative director at Cinco. Rauxa promoted two employees and hired a third. David Janszen was promoted to account director, in the New York office. Allison Yardeni was promoted to vice president for account services, in the San Francisco office. And Nanci Muriello was hired as an account director, in the New York office. Devin Reiter joined McCann Erickson New York as an executive account director. He had been a group account director at Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Boulder, Colo., part of MDC Partners. Catherine Sullivan joined Burson-Marsteller, New York, as managing director for worldwide communications. Paul Cordasco, who had been managing director for marketing and communications, remains a managing director and will take on client-related work. Ms. Sullivan had most recently been director for communications at Porter Novelli, New York, part of the Omnicom Group. Burson-Marsteller is part of the Young & Rubicam Group division of WPP. Timberland, Stratham, N.H., part of the VF Corporation, chose Assembly, New York, part of MDC Partners, as its media agency of record. Billings were not disclosed. The account had previously been held by Media Hub, Boston, part of the Mullen division of the Interpublic Group of Companies; Media Hub did not take part in a review for the account. VP&C, New York, promoted two employees. Lisa Jasper, vice president, becomes senior vice president, and Michelle Shen, account manager, becomes account supervisor. Frances Webb joined 360i, New York, part of Dentsu, in a new post, creative director for social content. She had most recently been associate creative director at StrawberryFrog, New York, part of APCO Worldwide. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS