It is quite possible that the Carlyle Group, the private equity firm that is preparing to go public, is proposing the most shareholder-unfriendly corporate governance structure in modern history. It starts with the fact that Carlyle is providing its soon-to-be public shareholders with no power over the company.  Carlyle shareholders will have no ability to elect directors. Instead, Carlyle intends for the company to be controlled by its management, primarily its co-founders: Daniel A. D’Aniello, the firm’s chairman, and William E. Conway Jr. and David M. Rubenstein, the co-chief executives.  They will have special power to elect Carlyle’s board of directors as long as they and Carlyle’s affiliates own more than 10 percent of the company.   Carlyle does intend to appoint some independent directors to this board, along with the three Carlyle co-founders. But Carlyle has yet to say if the independent directors will comprise a majority of the board.  And the Carlyle board will not have a board committee of independent directors to supervise executive pay and director nominations, as is normal at most public companies. Carlyle does not even intend to hold annual meetings of stockholders.  Given that shareholders have no voting rights, why bother?  It is not only that Carlyle shareholders will have no say over the firm’s governance.  Carlyle has also deliberately limited other rights of shareholders that are typically present in public companies.  Carlyle has a right to summarily repurchase all of the public’s shares if less than 10 percent of the company is held by those shareholders.  Carlyle puts the consequence of this aptly when it states in its initial public offering registration statement that “a holder of common units may have his common units purchased at an undesirable time or price.”   Carlyle has also taken a machete to the traditional legal rights of public shareholders.  Carlyle has  eliminated the fiduciary duties applicable to most corporate directors.  Instead, shareholders’ rights will be governed by Carlyle’s partnership agreement, which provides that the board can act in its sole discretion without good faith.  If a conflict of interest arises between the shareholders and Carlyle, the managing general partner can obtain approval from a conflicts committee that will be conclusive. The conflicts committee will comprise the independent directors who are appointed by Carlyle.   This would be bad, but to be honest, the governance structures of other public private equity firms like Apollo Global Management, the Blackstone Group and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts are all similar, though Carlyle seems to go a bit further on every item.  The thing that pushes Carlyle’s corporate governance structure over the edge is the arbitration requirements. Carlyle is requiring that public shareholders arbitrate all claims against the company.  The arbitration must be confidential, meaning no one would ever even know about it unless it was required to be disclosed by another law.  Class-action lawsuits are specifically barred.  The effect of these three provisions is to essentially eliminate any ability of shareholders to sue the board for even the most egregious acts. This includes federal securities law claims as well as any state law claims, though to be honest any grounds for state law claims have largely been eliminated anyway. The costs to most shareholders of bringing this type of litigation are prohibitive unless a class action is available.   Carlyle is being super-aggressive here because it knows that, to the extent the arbitration provision covers federal securities law, its legality is uncertain.  Some federal courts have refused to enforce arbitration clauses that deprived shareholders of a right to sue, claiming federal securities law violations.  Still, in a number of recent cases the Supreme Court has enforced arbitration clauses.  And most recently in CompuCredit Corp. v. Greenwood, the Supreme Court upheld an arbitration clause rebutting claims that provisions of the Credit Repair Organizations Act prohibited arbitration clauses. It may very well decide to allow Carlyle’s provision.  More immediate is the question of what the Securities and Exchange Commission will do.  An article by  Bloomberg News on Wednesday framed the issue this way:  Traditionally, the S.E.C. has refused to allow I.P.O.’s to go forward with these types of arbitration clauses, at least if the clause purported to cover federal securities law claims.  The question is whether the S.E.C. pushes back and once again refuses to allow this clause.  The S.E.C. would argue that this is necessary because it takes the position that these types of arbitration clauses are illegal.  Carlyle would cite the recent Supreme Court precedent to argue otherwise.   But even if the S.E.C. is successful, state law claims would still be subject to arbitration.  Carlyle’s shareholder-unfriendly acts are in line with arguments made against shareholder governance.  Academics and practitioners who support Carlyle’s view argue that shareholder empowerment does not create value, since shareholders have divergent interests and incentives and are too short term in outlook to effectively govern a public company.  Instead, companies should be run by boards of directors who are incentivized to focus on the company’s long-term interest.  And shareholder litigation is simply the domain of plaintiffs’ lawyers and abusive class-action “strike suits.”  Better to be rid of it.   The role of shareholders in the modern corporation can be debated as can the virtues of shareholder litigation, but it is clear which side Carlyle is on.  In a world where private equity is being publicly accused of being heartless, Carlyle is not hurting this argument.  It does not appear to particularly care about the rights of its public investors.  Still, the real question is whether prospective shareholders protest and refuse to participate in Carlyle’s I.P.O. because of the governance issues. Institutional investors have invested enormously over the decades in pushing for what they perceive as good corporate governance, as evidenced by the rise of Institutional Shareholder Services.  However, buyers at the I.P.O. stage tend to not care about corporate governance, since they intend to quickly flip their shares.  Carlyle is taking advantage of this to push through what can only be described as a shareholder’s corporate governance nightmare.  The question is whether Carlyle succeeds.   Advertisement