LONDON – Lee Robinson, the London-based hedge fund manager and co-founder of Trafalgar Asset Managers, is worried about inflation. As he sees it, the current market volatility and the European debt crisis make this the “most dangerous period for financial investment since World War II.” “Matters have gotten out of control of governments, and that is very dangerous,” he said, adding that the endgame was stagflation. “You end up with a recession, higher prices and more bankruptcies,” Mr. Robinson said. In an environment of continuously increasing inflation, Mr. Robinson, who last year started his new venture, Altana Wealth, likes the debt issued by countries like Norway, Australia, Canada and Singapore. He believes the economies have “good inflation protections and a history of being willing to repay their debt.” He is also bullish on gold, despite the recent price increases.  Mr. Robinson has a good history during tumultuous times. In 2008, his two funds at Trafalgar earned 5 percent and 24 percent by anticipating a banking crisis. Through the first eight months of this year, Altana’s sovereign diversity fund, which has about $28 million in assets under management, was up 3.2 percent. Altana, in which Goldman Sachs is taking a stake, expects to offer clients three or four portfolios by the middle of next year.  Even though the banking crisis in Europe is giving him sleepless nights, Mr. Robinson said “the world was changing, not ending.” He said the current situation was better but also worse than in 2008. “The drug addicts now know that they have a drug problem, and that’s the good thing,” he said. “The bad thing is that they’re still on drugs.” Still, he said there were investment opportunities in the market. “The oil industry is still cheap,” he said. “Any industry with high barriers to entry that will be still around in the years to come” could be attractive. Mr. Robinson was less interested in investing in the yen, calling it “everyone’s favorite loss-making trade.” He said it would be a better idea to buy into the currency on “the way back up” instead of now. Mr. Robinson was equally cautious on investing in the Swiss franc. The Swiss National Bank was a “very powerful institution,” he said, and that should not be “taken lightly.”    Advertisement