Bankruptcy filings have fallen in the past year. But the law firm Dewey & LeBoeuf appears to be betting on an upswing in the business in years to come. The firm said on Monday that it had bolstered its bankruptcy advisory practice by hiring 10 lawyers from Hennigan, Bennett & Dorman, including a co-founding partner, Bruce Bennett. All but one lawyer will be based in Dewey’s Los Angeles office. Joshua Morse, who holds the title of counsel, will be based in the San Francisco office. Among the specialties that the new lawyers bring is experience in handling municipal bankruptcy cases. Mr. Bennett was the lead adviser to Orange County, Calif., in its bankruptcy case in the 1990s. He created Hennigan Bennett’s bankruptcy practice when the law firm was founded in 1995. He previously worked at Stutman, Treister & Glatt. “Bruce is one of the premier restructuring attorneys in the country, with unparalleled experience in Chapter 11 corporate reorganizations and Chapter 9 municipal reorganizations,” Steven H. Davis, Dewey’s chairman, said in a statement. “We are delighted to have Bruce and his team join us.” Mr. Bennett will join another longtime veteran of the bankruptcy bar, Martin J. Bienenstock, who jumped to Dewey from his longtime perch at Weil, Gotshal & Manges, the powerhouse restructuring law firm.  Upon joining Dewey in 2007, Mr. Bienenstock founded the firm’s “business solutions and governance department” — read bankruptcy and restructuring — and won assignments on cases like those involving the Ambac Financial Group and the Capmark Financial Group.  He also had a hand in formulating what became General Motors‘ reorganization plan, which involved placing the carmaker’s desirable assets in a new company. Dewey has already hired a team of lawyers from the outside to bolster its business. In 2009, the firm hired five senior lawyers from Cooley Godward Kronish to beef up its technology mergers and acquisitions practice, including the veteran deal-maker Richard E. Climan. Beyond Mr. Bennett, the other lawyers joining Dewey include the partners James O. Johnston, Sidney P. Levinson, Joshua M. Mester and Bennett J. Murphy, a former co-head of bankruptcy at Hennigan Bennett; Joshua Morse and Monika Weiner as counsel; and three associates. Advertisement