7:40 p.m. | Updated 
Dell  may have lost the fight over 3Par, but it has found a consolation prize in another data storage company: Compellent Technologies. The two companies announced on Thursday that Dell was in talks to buy Compellent for $27.50 a share. The proposed deal is effectively a take-under, with a bid that is 18.3 percent below Compellent’s closing price on Wednesday of $33.65. Shares of Compellent have nearly doubled in the last two months on takeover speculation. More fuel was added on Dec. 7, when the company’s chief financial officer canceled an appearance at a technology conference scheduled for the next day. Dell’s offer values Compellent, based in Eden Prairie, Minn., at $876 million. But the companies cautioned that the proposal could fall apart. “There can be no assurances that an agreement will be reached or that a transaction will be consummated,” the two said in a statement. Compellent stock tumbled 13.7 percent on Thursday to close at $29.04 a share. Dell ended down 0.2 percent, at $13.65 a share. The data storage sector has consolidated rapidly in the last two years, as technology giants rush to capitalize on the growth in cloud computing. Dell, EMC and Hewlett-Packard have offered rich prices for the market’s top players. Three weeks ago, EMC agreed to buy Isilon Systems for $2.25 billion, a 28.8 percent premium over Isilon’s closing price the previous day. Hewlett-Packard and Dell battled for weeks this summer over 3Par. Dell initially bid $18 a share. After a string of counteroffers, H.P. emerged the victor with an offer of $33 a share, or $2.4 billion. Compellent’s rivals — like Isilon, 3Par and Data Domain — sell high-end data storage solutions that can be ramped up to meet the needs of even the largest companies. That’s why suitors are offering to pay more than nine times revenue for the companies, said Paul H. Mansky, a managing director at the research firm Cannacord Genuity. Compellent specializes in products for medium-size businesses, a less lucrative segment. Dell’s bid is roughly 4.5 times next year’s sales, Mr. Mansky estimated. “All the big acquisitions have been of high-end storage vendors,” he said. “This is the strategy Dell wanted, and they fell short.” Even so, Compellent may make sense for Dell, analysts say. Dell first gained a stronghold in data storage with its 2007 purchase of EqualLogic for $1.4 billion. The computer maker also sells EMC products through a nearly decade-long partnership agreement. But Dell is winding down its relationship with EMC, a Compellent competitor, analysts say. Dell’s bid for 3Par was considered the first strike against EMC and a sign that Dell was ready to build its own storage business. “If 3Par was a public separation, this announcement is the divorce,” said Mr. Mansky. Compellent also fits nicely into Dell’s distribution model, which caters to small and midsize businesses. While Dell’s motivations are clear, the real question is why Compellent’s board would entertain such a low offer. Jason Ader, an analyst at William Blair & Company, said it could reflect underlying business issues. “If your stock is at $33, why would you be willing to sell at $27?” Mr. Ader asked. “What does that tell you about what they’re thinking about their business longer term? Are they worried about their prospects?”  Advertisement