8:17 p.m. | Updated  More than a month after agreeing to sell itself to two leveraged buyout firms for $3 billion, J. Crew may have found potential new suitors. Several companies, including Sears Holdings and Urban Outfitters, have been studying the preppy retailer’s books, with the potential aim of making their own bids, people with direct knowledge of the matter said on Wednesday. Others poring over J. Crew’s financials include two other private equity firms, these people said, without naming them. Still, it is unclear whether Sears, Urban Outfitters or any other window shopper will make a formal counterbid for J. Crew, according to these people, who requested anonymity because they were not authorized to speak to the news media. They were given access to J. Crew’s books through a so-called go-shop provision in the retailer’s $43.50-a-share sale to TPG Capital and Leonard Green & Partners that allows the company to seek superior offers. Would-be buyers have until Jan. 15 to make bids. It is possible that some of these bidders are simply seeking to get a better look at J. Crew, the highflying retailer whose customers include Michelle Obama. But one of these people suggested that Urban Outfitters might be more serious about weighing a bid of its own. Representatives for J. Crew, Sears and Urban Outfitters either declined to comment or could not be reached for comment. Shares in J. Crew rose nearly 5.8 percent in midday trading on Wednesday after Bloomberg News first reported the potential interest by Sears and Urban Outfitters. Shares of J. Crew drifted lower afterward, increasing 2.3 percent, to close at $44.04. Shares of Sears rose 1.3 percent to close at $72.35. Shares of Urban Outfitters fell 14 cents, to $35.75. That may reflect the positioning of the two companies. Sears has struggled for years to lift its sagging sales, under pressure from more successful rivals like Wal-Mart Stores. It generally focuses on lower-price merchandise, although its Lands’ End brand has recently introduced a higher-end Canvas line with a style similar to that of J. Crew. Urban Outfitters is more of a direct competitor through brands like Anthropologie, and investors questioned whether a deal made sense, given its faster sales growth. Yet the company could reap some benefits from combining with its preppier rival, research analysts at William Blair & Company wrote in a note on Wednesday: It could improve J. Crew’s merchandise lead times and diversify its manufacturing base. Urban Outfitters is also in better financial health, with $503.6 million worth of cash and equivalents on hand and no long-term debt as of Oct. 31. Sears, on the other hand, had $790 million of cash and equivalents on hand and nearly $2.6 billion in long-term debt as of Oct. 30. One crucial question for any new bid for J. Crew is the fate of Millard S. Drexler, the retailer’s chairman and chief executive and the man widely credited for its revival over the last decade. While Urban Outfitters has its own well-regarded management team, Mr. Drexler was a principal architect of the TPG deal and owns an 11 percent stake in the company. Yet Mr. Drexler has taken criticism for his behavior during J. Crew’s negotiations with TPG and Leonard Green. He held deal talks with the buyout firms for seven weeks before notifying the retailer’s board, according to regulatory filings. Advertisement