Collateralized loan obligations may seem at first to be nothing but a throwback to private equity’s “golden era” of enormous leveraged buyouts. Yet the market for this product, which has made a modest comeback since the financial crisis, is an important source of capital for many businesses. Now its revival is under threat, and that could have broader implications beyond deal makers. A C.L.O. is typically a collection of large loans made by banks to corporations with higher amounts of leverage. The loans are bundled together into a securitization pool, and the pool is divided into multiple tranches. Interests in each tranche are then sold to institutional investors. This market was booming before the financial crisis. According to Dealogic, $158 billion worth of C.L.O.’s were issued globally in 2006. Mega-buyouts like the $43.2 billion deal for TXU and the $28 billion First Data buyout were largely made possible by these financial instruments. Then the financial crisis hit, and global issuance tumbled to $3.6 billion in 2009, according to Dealogic. Skittish investors fled in good part because of C.L.O.’s association with the big buyouts — and their leverage. The retreat may have been overdone: C.L.O.’s are largely made up of loans that are at much lower risk of default than the more risky high-yield, or “junk,” bonds that also finance private equity buyouts. Indeed, Moody’s Investors Service says that of the 630 C.L.O.’s outstanding in early 2011, only two defaulted and halted their cash payments. And they have made lemonade out of lemons: C.L.O.’s had a default rate of less than 1 percent even as the loans underlying them had a default rate of about 6.5 percent. The market is recovering fitfully. Last year, Dealogic reported $11.8 billion in new issuances. Moody’s forecasts that the market will grow to $12 billion to $15 billion this year. So far this year, $1.3 billion worth of C.L.O.’s are in the pipeline, according to Thomson Reuters. This is important because the market for new corporate loans to more leveraged companies has been kept alive by existing C.L.O.’s. The managers of these C.L.O.’s have been extending loans already in their portfolios or buying newly originated loans in the market. This secondary market is starting to dry up. Many C.L.O.’s are approaching their legal maturity dates while others are running up against purchase limits set by their organizational documents. In the latter case, C.L.O.’s bundled before the financial crisis typically cannot have a total number of loans with maturities greater than eight to nine years on average. The reason is to prevent the manager from investing in loan issuances that outlast the planned life span of the instrument. But as C.L.O.’s age, they are bumping up against this limit. So new C.L.O.’s are crucial to support the corporate loan market. Without them, banks will be hampered from originating credit since they will be unable to sell these loans off their balance sheet. Yet the market is facing new regulation that may destroy its nascent recovery. The primary problem stems from the Dodd-Frank Act, which requires that originators retain skin in the game for asset-backed securities by retaining a portion of them for their own accounts. While the rule is still being hashed out, the government is proposing that originators of C.L.O.’s be treated the same as originators of other asset-backed securities like mortgage-backed securities, and be required to retain a 5 percent interest in any C.L.O. At first blush, this would appear to be a good idea, and it certainly is for subprime assets. By forcing the originator to retain an interest in the securitization, it has an incentive to ensure that the instrument is made up of high-quality assets. Things are different in the case of C.L.O.’s. Most managers do not actually originate the loans underlying these financial instruments. Instead, the manager buys these loans from originating banks. This arguably provides a secondary-market check that may be lacking with other structured products. So why add a new regulatory burden? It’s unclear what benefit a “skin in the game” rule would provide, given that C.L.O.’s are more akin to commercial loans, for which Dodd-Frank deems risk-retention rules unnecessary. And the market itself has changed quite a bit since the crisis, as investors have demanded better terms. The danger is that C.L.O. managers who lack the capital to retain the risk could be driven out of the market. According to Moody’s, the 10 leading C.L.O. managers in the United States control about 40 percent of the market. These managers are not banks but rather lightly capitalized asset managers. The new rule is likely to consolidate the market even further and eliminate competition. And regulators may not appreciate this. The proposed risk-retention rules were primarily directed at subprime mortgage securitizations and barely mention C.L.O.’s. This change will come on top of the new Basel III capital ratios, which, when they begin to take effect in 2013, will raise capital requirements for banks that hold C.L.O.’s. The accord would more than double the capital requirements and be countercyclical, meaning that as losses accrued, capital reserve requirements would increase. The effect of this requirement is uncertain. It may create a greater supply of C.L.O. loans in the market as banks sell these assets — or supply may dry up as banks no longer look to acquire these assets. We’ll have to wait to find out. Still, without a healthy C.L.O. market, financing will become more expensive and difficult as borrowers will be forced into the high-yield market and other more expensive debt. And of course, private equity would also be hurt if the C.L.O. market dried up. And it’s not just new buyouts that would suffer. Moody’s estimates that many private equity loans made before the financial crisis are about to come due. Private equity will need to refinance $140 billion worth of these loans in 2014 versus only $21 billion in 2012. The C.L.O. market offers an important tale of recovering credit markets. Healing is occurring, albeit slowly, and investors are forcing change in the market, which remains an important source of capital for corporate America and private equity. Well-intentioned regulators, however, in their bid to fulfill Dodd-Frank’s mandates, may be putting in place overbroad rules that threaten individual market recoveries. So the market for C.L.O.’s, like other financial markets, is at a crossroad — its future is far from secure as it struggles to overcome the financial crisis and adjust to a new regulatory regime. Advertisement