In this weekend’s “Your Money” column, I take a somewhat grouchy look at Valentine’s Day gift-giving, in an attempt to prove that you don’t have to spend lavishly (or hand over anything at all) on Feb. 14 to have a successful marriage.  I’m not sure I’ll convince everyone, but the older couples I talked to sure seemed to have done O.K. for themselves. I especially liked chatting with 92-year-old Mae Mosher.  As for what I’m doing, we have a Day of Chocolate ritual in our house, but it doesn’t simply involve handing over a box. Instead, I find different ways each year to include chocolate in every meal. My 5-year-old daughter is especially fond of this tradition. (She really digs Nutella.)  My wife and I are also going out for dinner, but only because we have a longstanding reservation at a new restaurant where prime-time slots are hard to come by. Next year, I’m going to suggest that we follow the plan that I mentioned in the article: go someplace great the night after Valentine’s Day when we’ll stand a better chance of not having others sitting three feet to either side.  What do you think — are lavish presents really necessary on Valentine’s Day? 
			Personal finance features and news coverage from can now be found on the Your Money page.Read more… 
			What parents mean by “part-time” work, why the future of your Nook books is uncertain, free theater in the park (and parking lot) and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times.Read more… 
			How faith can affect mental health therapy, freshening up a kitchen for a home sale, creating your own personal weather station and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times.Read more… 
			Travel warnings are issued on Egypt, the Ford F-250 is now thieves’ favorite target, regulators crack down on abusive debt collection and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times.Read more… 
			A software glitch involving the new health care law may mean that some smokers won’t bear the full brunt of tobacco-user penalties that could have made their premiums much higher, at least for the first year.Read more… Advertisement