Advertisement Supported by Global Manager By Julia Werdigier  Ann Cairns  is the president of MasterCard’s global operations outside North America. She is based in London.  Q. You oversee so many different areas, each with its distinct culture. Do you think that leadership is a universal concept?   A. It’s a universal concept but it’s applied differently. It’s about seeing how people want to live their lives and what makes them feel good about themselves. For example, I’ve recently been to Japan, and we were sitting on a train, and a guard comes up the aisle, looks at our tickets and then turns around and bows to our carriage. And my husband said, “Imagine that on the London Underground.” The point is that their culture is one of great respect and politeness and that needs to be considered.   Q. When was the first time you led a group of people?   A. I was in my 20s. After studying mathematics and statistics I became a research engineer, designing experiments for physicists, chemists and engineers. By the age of 27 I was managing 50 engineers who looked into how big the pipe system should be to guarantee that you would get gas on the coldest day of the year.   Q. Comparing your leadership style back then with the type of leader you are today, how have you changed?   A. I’ve always been a very intuitive person. I think actually women are naturally intuitive leaders. You always listen, trying to hear what people are saying but also hearing what they want to say. As you become older your intuition becomes more finely tuned.   Q. What else?   A. When I was about 40 years old, I learned something brilliant from one of my former bosses. He said I make decisions far too quickly. My decisions were good and I’ve analyzed the problem and thought it through before reaching a conclusion, he said, but I would work faster if I thought more steps ahead. So imagine you’re playing chess and instead of just moving a pawn or a knight, you’re thinking six steps ahead in the game. You need to think, if I move this, this will happen, and so on.   Q. What other influences or events had a big impact on the way you work?   A. I started my first job when I was 22 years old. In my first week as a research engineer, my boss asked me to write a paper. I had not written an essay in seven years. My boss read the paper and said, “You can’t actually write!” And I said, “Well, no, because I didn’t have to write anything.” He told me not to worry about it and sent me on a course. So in week three of my first job I went on a writing and reading course. I learned that I need to simplify. Whenever I used a long word, I was asked to try and think of a shorter one that had the same meaning. Phenomenal advice.  Q. Phenomenal also to be sent on a training course in the first weeks of a new job! How did you feel about that?   A. I’m quite a confident person, so I know what I do well. But I’m also quite happy to have feedback that says, “Hey, you didn’t do that so well.” If I can improve, that’s great. Also, when you’re young, you don’t have any hang-ups about things like that.  Q. It seems you have a healthy attitude toward getting feedback and criticism. How do you approach giving feedback?   A. You can demoralize some people if you just say, “Look, I just don’t think you’re very good at this.” So I wouldn’t do that to somebody who would respond in that way. I might do it to somebody like me. I try to gauge what people might take. Criticism is better when it’s done in a positive way. Like my former boss. It’s about saying, “Look, don’t worry about this, I’m going to offer you some help,” or, “Hey, this is the way maybe you could do this better.”  Q. Was there anyone in particular who influenced you in your leadership style?   A. I had a lot of bosses who were really helpful and taught me a lot. But I also had bosses who were totally unhelpful and difficult to work for, but they taught me a lot as well.   Q. Can you explain that a bit more?   A. When I was in banking, I had an unhelpful boss. I remember that when I got a promotion, he just pushed the papers of the promotion across the table. He never told me much, didn’t trust me and didn’t bring me into his inner circle. When you’re dealing with someone like that, you have to improve your skills. Firstly, you have to continue acting with integrity even if you really want to treat him the same way he treats you.  Then you have to learn how to make the right decisions with less information than your peers. And you build respect among your peers and the people who work for you. As a result, you gain even more of their respect because they can see you are dealing with an adverse situation every day. You do your job exceptionally well, you build your network, you help other people and you create this positive environment around yourself.  Eventually that person grew to respect me. Women can come across this situation a lot. Learning how to handle that makes a huge difference to your career and it can also help you deal with difficult situations with customers.  Q. You were promoted several times throughout your career. What do you think gets people promoted, and what do you look for in people before deciding whether to promote them?   A. When you’re young, it’s about not being afraid to try something different. When I decided that I wanted to work offshore as an engineer, I didn’t go to my boss and say, “I would like to work offshore.” I just rang up the guy who was in charge of the offshore exploration and production division and said, “Hey, I’m a female engineer working in Newcastle and I would like to know more about your division because I think I would like to work there.” And he said, “That’s great, get on a train to London and see me.” So part of it is not being afraid of making your own way, being curious, responding positively to any opportunities before sitting back and thinking about what it would mean.  When you’re looking for people to promote, you’re looking for people who are flexible, motivated, interested in learning, and people who expand way beyond their current job.  Q. Can you give an example?   A. Our head of Asia reached out and said, “I’d like people across the company to come talk to me about things we could do in Japan.” The head of Latin America immediately said, “I’ll come over to Japan and I’ll help you with that.” And I thought, that is really such a great trait that he’s willing to take a few days out of his time. That’s the sort of thing that demonstrates real leadership. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS