As regulators propose hundreds of new rules for banks, hedge funds and other big financial players, trading limits for wheat and corn are proving among the most contentious.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission was supposed to set so-called position limits on agriculture products and the like weeks ago. But they have been at an impasse, as the agency’s commissioners argue over just how tough the limits should be.  The stalemate may soon be over. On Tuesday, a compromise proposal finally emerged.  Commissioner Bart Chilton, who refused to support an earlier phased-in proposal that he found too weak, has now agreed to a temporary position “points” plan, which would alert the agency when a trader becomes overexposed. This method would help the commission monitor the exposure of firms to certain commodities like wheat, oil and metals.  “We could do nothing, or we could urge the trader to reduce trading positions,” Mr. Chilton explained in a statement on Tuesday.  The interim plan does not preclude the commission from continuing to work to establish hard caps on trading. “While I will now support publishing a position limit proposal for public comment, I will continue to make the case that we need to address excessive speculation in these markets immediately,” Mr. Chilton said in the statement. “The delayed implementation in the commission proposal exacerbates this already troubling set of circumstances.” Mr. Chilton had been the leading proponent of immediately enforcing strict limits on the amount of a single commodity that a trader could hold.  And the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul requires the commission to do so. The law called for the new limits to begin this month, a deadline the commission said it would miss.  The limits are designed to help curb speculation in the commodities market. Such trading can cause wild price fluctuations, much to the dismay of consumers at the supermarket and the fuel pump. Some market watchers have blamed speculative trading for the skyrocketing gasoline prices in 2008.   The commission planned to vote on a phased-in position-limits plan at a public meeting on Dec. 16. But just before the vote, Gary Gensler, the agency’s chairman, abruptly called for a recess. When the commission returned, Mr. Gensler said it would delay a vote so the plan could “ripen.” Mr. Gensler has directed his staff to start collecting information about large trading positions. The commission next meets on Jan. 13, when it may take up a more permanent position limits plan.  Advertisement