The recent expansion of federal insider trading investigations has placed networks of outside experts at the center of the inquiry. But the experts’ motivation for disclosing nonpublic material isn’t clear, and prosecutors may have a hard time proving the experts received any benefit or breached their fiduciary duty. Many experts believe they simply provided an informed understanding of an industry. John Kincunnan, a principal at Broadband Research who was asked by Federal Bureau of Investigation agents to record conversations with clients, wrote in DealBook that “the type of research I provide to clients is pervasive in the financial community, the same kind of analysis provided not only by all investment banks, large and small, but by an ever-expanding group of research boutiques, virtually all larger than mine.”  The insider trading cases entered a new era after prosecutors charged two defendants with dispensing inside information about public companies. In early November, the government arrested Yves M. Benhamou, a French doctor and expert consultant, accusing him of providing a hedge fund manager with confidential information while monitoring a clinical drug trial for GlaxoSmithKline.  A few weeks later, federal agents arrested Don Chu, an executive at an expert consulting firm, and charged him with facilitating the sharing of confidential information about impending earnings at technology companies, including Atheros Communications, Broadcom and Sierra Wireless.  Both are “tipping” cases under Rule 10b-5. That means the government must show the tipper breached a fiduciary duty to keep the information secret and received a quid pro quo benefit from the recipient, who ultimately traded on the nonpublic information. The quid pro quo doesn’t necessarily need to be monetary; an ongoing personal relationship or enhancement to the tipper’s reputation may be sufficient.  In the typical insider trading case, the tipper often trades for his own benefit and may get a cut of the recipient’s proceeds, which makes it easy to prove securities fraud. But that doesn’t appear to be the case with Dr. Benhamou and Mr. Chu, who seem to have been more interested in enhancing their reputations. While such a gain may qualify as quid pro quo, it’s more difficult to prove. The government could assert that Dr. Benhamou and Mr. Chu passed the inside information to clients for consulting fees. But if that was their motive, they sold themselves rather cheaply, because the consultation fees probably amounted to a few thousand dollars. In Mr. Chu’s case, the recipient, who is cooperating in the investigation, offered to send a check for the services when he couldn’t pay with “soft dollars,” according to the complaint; instead Mr. Chu gave the information at no charge, seemingly to maintain goodwill with the trader.  Dr. Benhamou and Mr. Chu are likely to be the first wave of prosecutions involving outside experts. A Wall Street Journal article noted that F.B.I. agents interviewed an employee of Marvell Technology who also consulted with investment firms about the technology industry.  Important for any insider trading prosecution will be showing that the tipper breached a fiduciary duty in disclosing the information. But many expert consulting firms promote their access to different companies, and the consultants don’t appear to make an effort to hide their outside work from their employers. It may even be that these consultants were authorized by corporate employers — or it was at least tolerated as a cost of keeping talented employees.  An interesting issue is why a company would allow one of its employees to share information about the industry, when there is a potential that the consultant would also talk about the company. No company allows its employees to disclose confidential information while working as a consultant, and the expert consulting firms say they don’t want such information. It remains to be seen whether companies and consulting firms turned a blind eye to disclosures of confidential information. An employee accused of insider trading while working as a consultant could argue that his employer encouraged his outside work to enhance the company’s perception in the market — and therefore the disclosure did not breach a fiduciary duty.  This argument could make prosecution more difficult by exposing a rather seamy relationship between large investors and the companies whose shares they buy and sell.  A corporation that shares information with only a limited number of investors could also be in violation of Regulation FD, which prohibits a stock issuer from disclosing confidential information to large investors without also making it available to the general public at the same time.   Ultimately, the focus on experts — particularly those who are willing to discuss the prospects of their employers — shines a spotlights on the ways in which information seeps out to large investors trying to get an edge on competitors.  As Andrew Ross Sorkin noted in his Dealbook column, the government’s investigation challenges the popular “mosaic theory” of investing in which firms piece together tidbits of information on a company, some of which may be confidential. The question is whether such research crosses the line and amounts to insider trading.  Advertisement