Nelson W. Peltz’s investment firm has offered to buy Family Dollar Stores, the low-price retailer, for at least $7 billion, the company said in a regulatory filing on Tuesday. Mr. Peltz’s Trian Group contacted Family Dollar’s chairman and chief executive, Howard R. Levine, on Tuesday and said it had amassed a 7.9 percent stake in the retailer, according to the filing. The investment firm has offered to pay $55 to $60 a share in cash for the rest of the company, valuing Family Dollar at $7 billion to  nearly $7.6 billion. At the low end of the range, Trian’s offer represents a 25 percent premium over Family Dollar’s closing stock price of $43.96 on Tuesday. The company’s shares soared more than 25 percent in after-hours trading. Family Dollar’s stock has risen 39 percent over the past 12 months. Mr. Peltz, the well-known activist who has shaken up the likes of Wendy’s/Arby’s Group and Heinz, has had an interest in Family Dollar for some time. Last summer, his firm disclosed that it held a 6.6 percent stake and declared the company’s shares “undervalued.”  Mr. Peltz said then that his firm had held discussions with Family Dollar’s management about possible moves to raise the company’s share price that included raising sales per square foot and increasing a stock-buyback plan. Trian said that with its nearly 8 percent stake, it believed it was Family Dollar’s largest shareholder. Trian invited Mr. Levine to participate in the leveraged buyout and urged the company’s board to form a special committee to consider the takeover proposal, according to the filing. Still, the investment firm added, the ultimate decision should be determined by Family Dollar’s shareholders. Takeovers of low-price have proven to be big winners for private equity firms in recent years, as they benefited from a growth in price-conscious consumers. Kohlberg Kravis Roberts was widely praised for its 2007 leveraged buyout of Dollar General, which the firm took public again in 2009. And Bain Capital reaped strong returns from its takeover of Canada’s Dollarama, which the buyout firm acquired in 2004 and also took public in 2009. Mr. Peltz’s firm has indicated that it may hire investment banks to advise it on the transaction and provide debt financing for the bid. Trian has already secured backers for its offer, people briefed on the matter told DealBook. Representatives for Family Dollar and Trian were not immediately available for comment. Peter Lattman contributed reporting. Advertisement