Advertisement By NICOLA CLARKMARCH 7, 2014
 PARIS — A British court on Friday upheld an order that Ryanair sell most of its 29 percent stake in Aer Lingus, agreeing with regulators’ findings that the holding gives the low-cost carrier too much influence over its Irish rival. Ryanair appealed a ruling against it by Britain’s Competition Commission last year that found that its substantial shareholding threatened competition on routes between Ireland and Britain. The budget carrier, based in Dublin, had argued that the British regulator did not have the right to impose restrictions on an Irish company and dismissed the commission’s findings of harm as unfounded. But on Friday, the Competition Appeal Tribunal in London rejected Ryanair’s arguments, saying the regulator “did not err in its assessment of its jurisdiction” and said it found “no basis” for overturning its conclusions. The Competition Commission ruled against Ryanair in August, rejecting a number of proposed remedies offered by the budget carrier — Europe’s largest airline by number of passengers — including a vow to sell, without conditions, its entire Aer Lingus stake to any European company that made a successful bid for more than half of the airline. It ordered Ryanair to cut its stake in Aer Lingus to no more than 5 percent. Advertisement In a terse statement, Ryanair said it would seek permission to appeal the ruling at Britain’s Court of Appeal, effectively staving off the regulator’s divestment order until after the higher court has ruled. Legal experts said that if the Court of Appeal agreed to hear the case, a judgment would be unlikely before the summer. Advertisement Ryanair’s shareholding is the legacy of three unsuccessful hostile takeover bids for Aer Lingus over the last eight years.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The European Commission blocked Ryanair’s latest bid for Aer Lingus, worth nearly 700 million euros, or about $960 million, in February 2013 after a six-month review. European regulators found that concessions and remedies proposed by Ryanair, which included offers to sell dozens of routes among Ireland, Britain and Continental Europe, did not go far enough to allay antitrust concerns. Ryanair has a separate appeal of the European Commission’s decision pending before the European Union’s second-highest tribunal, the General Court of the European Court of Justice, in Luxembourg. A ruling in that case is expected to take several years. Aer Lingus is also 25 percent owned by the Irish government. Dublin has repeatedly expressed its interest in selling its shares, but it has held off in the fear that they could be snapped up by Ryanair. Ryanair and Aer Lingus already control 70 percent of Irish air traffic, and the Irish government says a combination would leave Ireland too dependent on one operator for vital air links abroad. Ryanair has long coveted Aer Lingus because of its valuable takeoff and landing slots at airports like Heathrow, near London. It is that major presence at Heathrow that British regulators say gives them jurisdiction over the matter. In a statement, the chairman of Aer Lingus, Colm Barrington, welcomed the tribunal’s ruling, calling it a “key milestone on the path toward removing Ryanair from the Aer Lingus share register.” A version of this article appears in print on March 8, 2014, on Page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: Court Upholds Regulators’ Ruling Against Ryanair.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »