Putting together a leveraged buyout is never an easy task, and a multibillion-dollar deal like that for J. Crew is especially difficult. Still, as the fashionable retailer’s proxy filing showed on Monday, the takeover of the company by TPG Capital and Leonard Green & Partners almost didn’t get done. Beginning with an Aug. 23 meeting between the buyout firms and J. Crew’s chairman and chief executive, Millard S. Drexler, the deal nearly foundered over crucial negotiating points. Not the least of these was the price the buyout firms would pay — a figure dramatically affected by the revelation that J. Crew’s third-quarter earnings would be well below forecasts. TPG and Leonard Green were not the only bidders interested in J. Crew: An unnamed strategic bidder, known as Party A, surfaced in mid-September, while another buyout firm, dubbed Party B, appeared one month later.  Party A never made a meaningful offer. Party B was more insistent, though it told J. Crew’s special committee that it would make an offer only if Mr. Drexler — the “merchant prince” lauded for the company’s success — was on board. But according to the filing, Mr. Drexler felt most comfortable with TPG, which had hired him as the retailer’s chief executive shortly after his ouster from Gap. By Nov. 8, TPG and Leonard Green had offered a “best and final proposal” of $45 a share, raised after nearly a week of wrangling to $45.50. But by Nov. 21, two days before the parties hoped to announce a deal, the buyout firms said they wanted to walk away, in part because they had been apprised of J. Crew’s impending worse-than-expected earnings. (That angered Mr. Drexler, people briefed on the matter previously told DealBook, in a detail not in the dispassionately written filing.) Forced to scramble, J. Crew’s special committee convened with its advisers at the law firm Cravath, Swaine & Moore and the boutique investment bank Perella Weinberg Partners over alternatives to a buyout, including a stock buyback. It was only through shuttle diplomacy between Josh Weston, the head of J. Crew’s special board committee, and James Coulter of TPG that the buyout firms returned on Nov. 22 with a new offer of $43 a share, and had agreed to let Mr. Drexler more fully participate in a forthcoming go-shop period.  J. Crew’s special committee countered with $44. And as so often happens, the two sides met in the middle with a price of $43.50 — shortly before DealBook broke the news of the deal talks. The filing also noted some interesting tidbits about Mr. Drexler’s role in a privately held J. Crew. He will continue to serve as chairman and chief executive, with an initial employment contract of four years, which can subsequently be renewed for a year every year. He will also receive $200,000 in base salary, with an annual bonus of up to $800,000. Mr. Drexler is expected to roll over roughly $99.5 million worth of equity into the TPG deal. He will also receive nearly half of the new shares and options to be made available under a new employee compensation plan. Advertisement