The Treasury Department will begin taking pitches from major investment banks for leading roles in selling off the first part of the government’s stake in the American International Group, people briefed on the matter told DealBook on Friday. Treasury officials will head to New York City to listen to the pitches from 10 firms, after having sent out a request for proposal on Thursday, these people said.  The goal will be to sell off the first major chunk of Treasury’s stake in A.I.G., as part of the Obama administration’s effort to eventually exit its holdings in the insurer. The government initially gained a nearly 80 percent stake in A.I.G. common shares as part of the company’s taxpayer-financed rescue in September 2008. That stake is set to rise to 92.1 percent through a reorganization of the government’s holdings in the A.I.G. Emboldened by the success of General Motors‘ initial public offering in November, Treasury is likely to pursue the sale of at least $15 billion worth of A.I.G. shares this spring, these people said. The exact amount would depend on investor demand for A.I.G. shares. The sale could take place either in March or May, with the latter being the more likely option. The government would then be subject to a six-month lockup of its shares, though it favors holding another stock sale toward the end of the year if possible, these people said. In the best-case scenario, Treasury could reduce its A.I.G. stake by the end of the year to perhaps 33 percent, these people said. A Treasury spokesman declined to comment. Among the banks that could gain prominent positions in the offering are those that provided A.I.G. with $4.3 billion worth of financing agreements last month. Those include JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Citigroup. Both A.I.G. and the government have been taking steps to eventually sell down Treasury’s stake in the insurer. In November, the government disclosed that it hired the boutique investment bank Greenhill & Company as an adviser to any A.I.G. stock sales. And on Thursday, A.I.G. disclosed that it plans to issue 75 million warrants to existing nongovernment shareholders, a measure meant to help avoid them avoid the dilution of their shares amid the massive secondary offerings. It is unclear how big the underwriting fee the government will be willing to pay bankers to underwrite the secondary offering, but it is likely to be below average. In the G.M. initial offering, underwriters were paid just .75 percent of the $23 billion stock sale, a fraction of the industry norm. Yet firms are still likely to press for a piece of the A.I.G. offering, given both its size and the prestige that would come with aiding the government. News of the timing of the government’s meetings was first reported by CNBC. Advertisement