LONDON — Now there is another reason to rail against bankers: The fees they charge.  The Institutional Investor Council, which represents Britain’s biggest investors, said in a report released on Tuesday that it was “consistently” told by corporate issuers that the fees charged by bankers on rights offerings, or sales of shares, were “too high” in Britain. In the words of one, the fees are “usually immoral.”  To put it in perspective, the council compared underwriting fees paid by a number of companies for rights issues with total compensation for directors in the year of the issue. What it found was stunning. Typically, gross underwriting fees were 10 times as much as the total compensation for executive directors in the year that the rights issue took place, the council said in its report, “Rights Issue Fee Inquiry.” Among the recommendations the council makes is for issuers to disclose in detail all fees paid to whom and for what purpose. It also suggests that issuers put the primary underwriting contract out to tender and decide if only a part of an offering should be underwritten.  Fees for underwriting rights issues have fluctuated over the past decade and a half. They hovered around 2 percent between 1994 and 1999 but, after the publication of a report highlighting lofty fees by Britain’s Monopolies and Mergers Commission in 1999, they dropped below 2 percent for a few years before trending higher in 2003 to an average of 2.6 percent, according to the council. The watershed event for fees came in 2008, when the financial crisis spurred scores of companies to raise capital through rights offerings even as the banking system was teetering on the brink of collapse. Between 2008 and 2009, British companies recapitalized their balance sheets to the sum of Â£76 billion ($120 billion) primarily through rights offerings.  Not surprising, fees ballooned, varying between 3 and 4 percent, with an average of 3.4 percent, the council said.    In the current, more benign market environment, however, fees have not “fallen as they may have been expected to do so,” the council found.  The council’s findings touch on a tricky subject. Underwriting — where an investment bank buys shares from a company at a predetermined price, taking on the risk that it might not be able to distribute the shares to investors at the price it paid or a higher level — is a seamless process when markets are functioning smoothly and there is a little volatility.   But as Goldman Sachs and other investment banks discovered in 1987, when markets crack, underwriters earn their keep. Goldman and others suffered huge losses in October 1987, when a $12.33 billion underwriting deal for BP was priced in Britain shortly before markets started to unravel.  The council maintains “the risks that the lead underwriters bear have fallen in the past decade” as “there has been an increasing tendency to alert significant shareholders, in confidence, to an impending issue and gauge likely appetite and the appropriate price.” The only time, the council concedes, the risks to underwriters rose was during the height of the financial crisis in 2008. Advertisement