At a time when many of the nation’s largest endowments have generated returns below 12 percent, Princeton University said on Friday that its endowment had returned 14.7 percent last year, bringing its total to $14.4 billion. Among the universities that had the 10 largest endowments at the end of the 2009 fiscal year, Princeton was the fourth-largest, with assets of $12.6 billion, Geraldine Fabrikant of The New York Times writes. Of the eight schools in that group that have already reported investment returns for the latest year, which ended June 30, Princeton has been outperformed so far only by Columbia University, which earned 17 percent on its current $6.5 billion endowment. Princeton’s average annualized return over 10 years is 7.9 percent, which puts it in the top percentile among the 428 institutions reporting in the Trust Universe Comparison Service. Among large universities, it is second only to Yale, which continues to lead with an average return of 8.9 percent. Harvard’s 10-year average is 7 percent. The endowment has been run since 1995 by Andrew Golden, who worked for five years for Yale’s investment chief, David Swensen. Mr. Swensen pioneered the concept of diversifying an endowment into nontraditional assets like real estate, timber, private equity and hedge funds. That strategy came under fire last year when some of the nation’s largest institutions found that their portfolios were too illiquid to meet their schools’ cash requirements and they were pressed to sell assets at depressed prices. Their returns were also hurt by the holdings in those groups. Princeton’s performance is particularly noteworthy because Princeton, like Yale, started the fiscal year with a heavy commitment to illiquid assets. Land and timber, for example, as well as private equity, have all suffered in the recent downturn. According to the treasurer’s report, Princeton started fiscal 2010 with 56.5 percent of its assets in those two classes. Nevertheless, Princeton’s returns were extremely strong. It did not disclose on Friday its asset allocation at the end of the year. Go to Article from The New York Times » Advertisement