Keith Meister, who was widely described as the billionaire activist investor Carl C. Icahn’s right-hand man, is starting an event-driven hedge fund that will be seeded by Soros Fund Management, people who have been briefed on the matter say.  Soros Fund Management, founded by the Hungarian-American hedge fund titan George Soros, is putting in $250 million into Mr. Meister’s new fund, these people say.  Much like his old boss, Mr. Meister plans to adopt an activist investing style, pushing companies to improve their share price through  restructuring or sales. One of the young stars in the galaxy of activist investing, Mr. Meister, 37, was a pivotal player in the Icahn empire. He was picked by Mr. Icahn to serve on the boards of a number of companies, including the auto parts maker Federal Mogul Corporation and the telecommunications company Motorola, in which the billionaire investor has interests. Mr. Meister declined to comment on Thursday. Fortune magazine said this year that Mr. Meister, then principal executive officer and vice chairman of Icahn Enterprises, was one of the highest-paid executives under 40, pulling in $3 million at the age of 36. Fortune said the executive oversaw gaming and real estate holdings and was also a senior investment analyst at Icahn’s High River Limited Partnership and a director of the Icahn Fund.  Mr. Meiser also made The New York Observer’s Insurgents of 2010 list, a ranking of the 52 people remaking New York. He declined The Observer’s’s request for an interview, saying he wanted  “to stay humble and shy.” The debut of the Meister fund is just the latest in a long line of high-profile hedge fund starts this year.   Morgan Chia-Wen Sze, global head of the proprietary trading desk that Goldman Sachs is shutting down, is preparing to create his own hedge fund.  Before joining Icahn, Mr. Meister co-founded an information technology and software capital venture fund and worked in investment banking at Lazard Freres, according to Fortune.  His new fund will give Mr. Soros, who is known more for his big economic wagers like his 1992 bet against the British pound, an avenue to invest in companies that are undervalued.    Advertisement