NEW YORK & LONDON & HONG KONG--(BUSINESS WIRE)--UBS Investment Bank announced today that Stephen Cummings will join UBS 
      Investment Bank as a Managing Director and Chairman of Americas 
      Investment Banking (IBD). Cummings will be based in New York and report 
      to Jimmy Neissa, Matthew Grounds and Simon Warshaw, Joint Global Heads 
      of IBD. He will join on April 18.
      
      “We created the position of Chairman of Americas Investment Banking to 
      enhance our existing strengths in the US and to underscore our 
      commitment to grow our US investment banking franchise. I am delighted 
      that someone of Steve's caliber will be taking on that position,” said 
      Phil Lofts, CEO of UBS Americas.
     
      “Steve has an impressive track record and his wealth of experience will 
      help our clients achieve their goals,” said Neissa. “Partnered with 
      Aryeh Bourkoff, Americas Head of Investment Banking, his deep expertise 
      and insight will help us enhance and support our Investment Banking 
      business during what will be a strong growth phase for our US business.”
     
      “I’m very excited to be joining UBS at this time. I see an unrivalled 
      opportunity for growth and I look forward to being a part of it,” said 
      Cummings. “After spending a great deal of time with management, it 
      became obvious that this is a firm with an unparalleled global footprint 
      that is extremely client focused. Jimmy, Matthew, and Simon have a 
      stellar team and I look forward to working with them to serve their 
      clients and continue to grow the franchise.”
     
      Cummings, 55, was previously Senior Executive Vice President and Head of 
      Corporate and Investment Banking at Wachovia Bank. He began his career 
      in 1979 in the Corporate Finance Department of Kidder, Peabody & Co. 
      Incorporated in New York. He subsequently joined Bowles Hollowell Conner 
      & Co., a merger & acquisition advisory firm, and became its Chairman and 
      CEO in 1993. Bowles Hollowell Conner & Co. merged with First Union Corp. 
      in 1998.
     
      Cummings holds a BA from Colby College and an MBA from Columbia 
      University.
     
Notes to Editors
 
      UBS draws on its 150-year heritage to serve private, institutional and 
      corporate clients worldwide, as well as retail clients in Switzerland. 
      We combine our wealth management, investment banking and asset 
      management businesses with our Swiss operations to deliver superior 
      financial solutions.
     
      UBS is present in all major financial centers worldwide. It has offices 
      in over 50 countries, with about 37% of its employees working in the 
      Americas, 37% in Switzerland, 16% in the rest of Europe and 10% in Asia 
      Pacific. UBS employs about 65,000 people around the world. Its shares 
      are listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange 
      (NYSE).
     
www.ubs.com/media
 
      UBS Investment BankMedia EnquiriesNew York:Kelly 
      Smith, +1-212-882-5699Kelly.smith@ubs.comorLondon:Richard 
      Morton, +44-20756-80175Richard.morton@ubs.com
 
      UBS Investment BankMedia EnquiriesNew York:Kelly 
      Smith, +1-212-882-5699Kelly.smith@ubs.comorLondon:Richard 
      Morton, +44-20756-80175Richard.morton@ubs.com
