So just how do those hedge fund titans make so much money? What is their secret sauce? How do they talk? Wouldn’t it be great to be able to listen in on their conversations?  Thanks to the insider trading trial of Raj Rajaratnam, average investors are likely to get a rare peek into how these hedgies operate.  The government could play as many as 90 hours of secretly recorded phone conversations between Mr. Rajaratnam, the head of the Galleon Group hedge fund, and his supposed accomplices.  On Thursday, the first day of witness testimony, jurors heard three short snippets of wiretapped calls on which prosecutors say Mr. Rajaratnam received illegal tips about public companies. Mr. Rajaratnam’s lawyer, Terence Lynam, argued that one of the conversations — a chat between Mr. Rajaratnam with Adam Smith, a Galleon colleague who admitted to insider trading — was taken out of context because the government did not play the first two minutes of the wiretapped call.  Mr. Lynam then played the first two minutes of the call, which took place on May 1, 2008, at 3:02 p.m. It is a conversation between Mr. Rajaratnam and Ian Horowitz, his trader. It seemed that Mr. Rajaratnam was out giving a speech and contacted the office from his cellphone to check in on his portfolio before a spate of corporate earnings announcements after the close.   Here is a transcript of the dialogue. On the audio, Mr. Rajaratnam and Mr. Horowitz go back and forth at a rapid-fire clip (think Aaron Sorkin writing dialogue about Wall Street): Raj Rajaratnam: Hey Ian. Ian Horowitz: Hi buddy. How are you?  Raj: O.K. What’s up? Ian: Alright, I just wanna, first, ah I want to go for earnings tonight. Raj: Uh, huh. Ian: We got, Java. We’re short 750. Raj: O.K.  Ian: Monster, we’re long 400. MNST, Digital River, we’re long 200 and AMT, we’re long 200. Raj: Um hum. What do you want to do?  Ian:  I think Java we should cut at least, you know like, say we should at least cover 250 and go to 500. Raj: O.K. do that. O.K. Ian: Monster, I think we sell 100. Go to 300.  Raj: O.K. Ian: Digital River we just put this position on so you want to stay in AMT. Stocks, stocks flat on the day, I think you at least sell 50 with this, we have no edge. Raj: O.K. How’s our P.&L.? Ian: We’re down 4.8 right now. Market near the highs. Our headaches are Goldman Sachs, our options and JASO. Raj: O.K. Ian: And ah, our, you know, winners are Hewlett’s actually having a great day today. PeopleSupport, BCSI, AMAT and ah Broadcom. Raj: How long, how net short are we?  Ian: We are … 30 percent net short. Raj: O.K. Ian: Alright buddy … How’d your speech go?  Raj: Is … is the S.&P. through 1,400?  Ian: Yes. S.&P. is at 1,407 right now and the Q’s went through resistance at 4,804. But it’s now kind of extended up here. Apple‘s up 5, Google‘s up 15, Rimm’s up 5, Baidu’s up 4, Solars all still getting worked. Crude rallied into the close after being down almost 3, it closed down 2. Um, what else, Goldman’s up at 197.97 Raj: Okay. Um where’s First Solar?  Ian: First Solar is at 267.35. Raj: How many have you bought?  Ian:  I bought 25. Right, right here is my average.  Raj: Do you want to buy another 15?  Ian: I would like to buy another 15. JASO is 22.40. I think you wait one more day with JASO. Raj: Yeah, let’s buy another 10 First Solar. Ian: You got it buddy. Hold on. Adam wants to talk to you for a second.  Advertisement