Three months after asking the federal bankruptcy judge overseeing the Lehman Brothers reorganization to release additional money to cover the legal costs of former executives, the company’s lawyers have returned to ask for more. Lehman’s lawyers have requested an additional $90 million from insurance policies that the company bought to cover costs in case its directors and officers were investigated or sued. I speculated in August, when the lawyers asked for an additional $35 million, that  the government’s investigation was moving into high gear and causing lawyers to increase their work on the case. So the latest motion for more money indicates that the government could be close to ending   its civil and criminal investigations and moving ahead with some type of enforcement, including proceeding against individuals for the public statements to investors and decisions that led to the firm’s demise in September 2008. You don’t ask for that much money without a pretty good reason. Like most large companies, Lehman bought insurance to cover the legal costs of its employees who might face  investigations and legal proceedings related to their jobs. Lehman bought a generous amount, totaling $250 million for any claims arising from actions from May 16, 2007,  to  May 15, 2008, and another $250 million for claims from May 16, 2008, to May 15, 2009.  The policies cover a range of “wrongful acts,” so long as there is no finding that any misconduct  was intentional. Even before Lehman’s demise, there were several lawsuits against the company, its officers and directors, and that number increased after the bankruptcy. From the time of the filing  in September 2008 through August, former employees used $35 million in insurance from the 2007-2008 policy. According to the most recent filing, the $35 million authorized in August will be exhausted by the end of November. That includes a $10 million payment as part of the settlement in a securities arbitration filed against the former chief executive, Richard S. Fuld Jr., related to Lehman’s sale of a $22 million bond to an investor [Motion to pay settlement attached]. The other $25 million, which is not an insignificant amount,  has  gone to  cover legal fees. An interesting development disclosed in the latest  court filing is that, for the first time, the former employees want to tap the 2008-2009 insurance policy for $35 million of the $90 million sought, while the previous payments, totaling $70 million so far, were from the 2007-2008 policy. Under the insurance contract, payments can only be sought for conduct that occurred during the specific period covered by the policy.  So seeking $35 million from the 2008-2009 policy could mean that  investigators are looking at what Lehman executives did after May 16, 2008, in the last months of the firm’s existence. That signals an expansion of the conduct being investigated. The bankruptcy examiner’s report filed by Anton R. Valukas raised questions about the so-called “Repo 105” transactions that Lehman used to move part of its debt off of its books at the end of numerous quarters, and those transactions largely occurred from 2006 through June 2008, but not during the hectic final weeks of Lehman’s existence. While it is not impossible to spend $90 million on legal fees, a better guess is that some  former executives are working out settlements with the government for any potential violations of the federal securities laws that would be financed, in part, by the insurance money. The most likely proceedings in which this would happen are  civil complaints  brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Those cases usually settle with the defendant disgorging profits made during the relevant period from sales of the company’s stock along with a monetary penalty, all without an admission or denial of liability. The rule of thumb for settling a securities case has been “one and one,” meaning disgorgement of profits plus a penalty equal to that amount.  In some cases, particularly those with a sizable disgorgement, the penalty may be a fraction of the defendant’s gains, such as the one-half penalty of $22.5 million paid by Angelo R. Mozilo, the former chief executive of Countrywide Financial, to settle inside trader accusations with  the S.E.C. While penalties are excluded from reimbursement by Lehman’s insurance policies, disgorgements are not,  so the funds would come from the insurers rather than from the defendants. As I discussed in a recent post, Mr. Mozilo had a portion of his $67.5 million settlement with the S.E.C. paid by Bank of America, which took over Countrywide’s obligation to indemnify him for certain costs as part of its acquisition of the mortgage lender in 2008. In much the same way, Lehman’s insurance policies can cover at least some of the cost of any settlement by its former executives, along with their legal’s fees. So the request to free up $90 million could be a means for some of Lehman’s former employees to pay at least some part of any S.E.C.  settlement. When that would take place is anyone’s guess at this point, but creating a pot of money that size certainly indicates that we could see some movement toward resolving the government investigations fairly soon. The hearing on the motion is scheduled for Nov. 17, and the bankruptcy court’s willingness to approve the prior motions to tap the insurance policies is a strong indicator that it will do so again. Once the money is made available to the Lehman’s former executives, I doubt it will be burning a hole in anyone’s pockets for long. Lehman Brothers Motion on D.&O. Insurance  Lehman Brothers Motion to Pay Settlement  Advertisement