Advertisement By STUART ELLIOTTMAY 12, 2014
 Stuart Elliott, the advertising columnist, answers questions from readers each week. Questions can be sent to stuarte@nytimes.com. Q. I caught this commercial last night. It is an ad for Petco that attempts to suggest that Petco and its choice food partners go well together, just as Petco’s customers — pets and pet owners — go well together. The voice-over in the commercial begins: “There are perfect complements: the sun to our moon, the Bonnie to our Clyde. Some things just go together.” “The Bonnie to our Clyde”? Among the most famous rampaging, murderous lovers of the Great Depression era? That’s who Petco chose to compare its partnership with natural food companies to? Why not “the Mussolini to our Stalin”? Advertisement I would suggest there is no shortage of better famous pairs, fictional or real — “the Jack to our Jill,” “the Fred to our Ginger,” “the Fred to our Wilma” — that Petco could have come up with for this spot. Advertisement What were they thinking? A. Thanks, dear reader, for the question about the commercial, which is part of a campaign that Petco introduced in September from the Vitro agency in San Diego, part of MDC Partners, which carries the theme “Petco, The power of together.” I am not sure that Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow are in the same category as two of the world’s most infamous dictators, but it certainly was an odd note to strike — particularly, as you point out, dear reader, when there were so many other pairs to invoke. As it turns out, the commercial is no more, as disclosed in a response to an email I sent to Petco asking for a reaction to the reader’s comments. “In hindsight, we appreciate that our attempt to showcase the close bond between pets and their pet parents could have been better illustrated using a different cultural reference,” says a statement sent by a Petco spokeswoman, Lisa Stark. “Based on some customer feedback, this ad has been pulled from the rotation and also from our YouTube channel.” Ms. Stark shared a commercial with a summertime theme that Petco plans to begin running this week, which is 100 percent free of notorious murderous lovers.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Q. What was up with that argyle Coke can that seemed to be in every scene with Don Draper in the May 4 episode of “Mad Men”? I don’t think I’ve ever seen that one before. A. Thanks, dear reader, for the question about the Coca-Cola can, which appeared as part of a lunch menu for Don, along with a Clark bar, and also helped him fall off the wagon when he poured into the can some vodka stolen from Roger Sterling’s office. The can’s red and white diamond pattern has inspired collectors of Coke memorabilia to call it the diamond can or the harlequin can. According to the archives of the Coca-Cola Company, “the can was used from 1966 to 1970,” says a spokeswoman, Abigail Todd, when it was replaced by red and white cans featuring the “dynamic ribbon,” which is how the company refers to the white wavelike design element that appears with the words “Coca-Cola.” The time frame for the can fits with the episode of “Mad Men” because it seems to be taking place in April or May 1969. There was another nostalgic moment involving the can: It was opened with a detachable pop top. Advertisement Although my own, modest collection of Coke memorabilia does not include a harlequin can, I do have a small plastic cup bearing the harlequin pattern. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »