LONDON – Consolidation in the French telecommunications market looks to be on hold for now. On Wednesday, Orange, the nation’s largest telecommunications company, said it had decided not to pursue a merger within the marketplace despite encouragement from the French government. “Orange has examined the possibilities of participating in an operation that would lead to consolidation in the French telecoms market, and believes that it cannot pursue this avenue at the present time as the conditions that the group has set have not been met,” the company said in a statement. Orange and Bouygues Telecom, France’s third-largest mobile provider, had discussed partnerships or a potential merger after Bouygues Telecom lost out in a bid this year to acquire SFR, the mobile phone unit of the French media conglomerate Vivendi, according to people familiar with the matter.  Bouygues Telecom is a unit of Bouygues, the diversified industrial group run by the French billionaire Martin Bouygues. Altice, the cable and mobile services provider based in Luxembourg, agreed in April to pay up to 17 billion euros, or about $23 billion, for SFR. Altice plans to merge SFR, France’s second-largest mobile provider, with its French cable unit Numericable.  Bouygues Telecom had hoped to reshape the French telecommunications market by reaching a deal to combine two of its largest players, first with SFR and later in its talks with Orange. Numericable agreed this week to acquire Virgin Mobile France from the Carphone Warehouse Group and Virgin in a smaller deal that will further bolster its mobile business. Virgin Mobile France has about two million subscribers. The decision by Orange not to pursue a merger comes as French politicians have raised concerns about a continuing price war in the telecommunications market in France. In May, Arnaud Montebourg, the French economy minister, said the highly competitive market was “ruined,” signaling a willingness to allow the French mobile sector to shrink from four main providers to three. Bouygues Telecom and its larger rivals are facing pricing pressure from Free Mobile, a mobile provider that entered the market in 2012. Free Mobile is part of Iliad, a telecommunications company founded by the French entrepreneur Xavier Niel. Iliad popularized low-cost broadband service in France and then expanded into the mobile market, with low-cost flat-rate plans for calls, texts and data. Other providers have been forced to lower their prices in response. Advertisement