LONDON – SHV Holdings of the Netherlands said Monday that it had offered to acquire Nutreco, the Dutch supplier of animal food, for 2.7 billion euros, or about $3.4 billion, in cash. The deal is expected to provide further diversification for the family-owned SHV, which owns the warehouse club store Makro, as well as businesses involved in oil and gas production, private equity investment and transportation. Under the offer, SHV would pay €40 a share in cash for outstanding shares of Nutreco. The offer represents a 42 percent premium to Nutreco’s closing price on Friday. Shares of Nutreco rose 39 percent to €39.20 in early trading in Amsterdam on Monday. “We consider Nutreco a very promising and exciting company with a good long-term growth opportunity, solid management and company values similar to SHV,” Stephan Nanninga, the chairman of the executive board of SHV, said in a news release. Nutreco’s supervisory board has unanimously recommended that shareholders accept the offer. The transaction is subject to regulatory approval and will be contingent on shareholders agreeing to sell 95 percent of Nutreco’s outstanding shares to SHV, which plans to delist Nutreco’s shares after the merger. Nutreco would remain a separate company within SHV after the merger and maintain its headquarters in the Netherlands. “We are excited about this new step in the rich history of our company,” Knut Nesse, the Nutreco chief executive, said in a news release. “SHV will be an excellent partner, enabling us to maintain our corporate identity, culture, values and organization.” SHV has the right to match any competing offers for the company. If the merger agreement is terminated because of a competing offer, Nutreco will pay a €25 million breakup fee to SHV. Nutreco, which is based in Amersfoort and produces animal feed for farming and fish food for industrial fisheries, posted revenue of about €5.2 billion in 2013. It employs about 10,000 people in 30 countries. Started in 1896 by the merger of two coal trading companies, SHV, based in Utrecht, has a diversified business including retail outlets and private equity investment. The privately held company employs about 47,000 people in 50 countries. Nutreco is being advised by ING and Leonardo & Company as well as the law firm De Brauw Blackstone Westbroek. SHV is being advised by Lazard and the law firm Allen & Overy. Advertisement