7:17 p.m. | Updated  Barclays on Tuesday reported a drop in profit for last year but still beat analysts’ expectations, having reduced losses from bad loans and almost doubled earnings at its investment bank. Shares of Barclays shot up 5.8 percent in London. Profit fell to £3.6 billion ($5.7 billion) in 2010, from $15.1 billion a year earlier. The 2009 figure was inflated, however, by a one-time gain of $10.1 billion from the sale of Barclays Global Investors. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News had predicted 2010 profit of $5.1 billion. Like its rivals, Barclays has changed the way it rewards its staff members as a result of new regulations for bonuses. The bank said on Tuesday that bonus awards for 2010 fell 7 percent at the group and 12 percent at Barclays Capital, its investment banking division. It said that it also “expanded significantly” the number of employees whose bonuses would be 60 percent deferred. Write-downs for troubled assets dropped 30 percent, to $9.1 billion from $13 billion, after credit losses at Barclays Capital improved over all, although the quality of the bank’s corporate loan portfolio in Spain deteriorated sharply. “I am proud of what we achieved in 2010, especially our profit growth and enhanced capital and liquidity positions,” said the chief executive, Robert E. Diamond Jr., who took the helm at the British bank this year. Barclays Capital, the bank’s main driver for growth, had a profit before tax of $7.7 billion in 2010, up from $4 billion a year earlier. Referring to tougher rules being adopted for banks in Britain and elsewhere, Mr. Diamond, like his counterparts at other big banks, warned that “the new environment will necessitate lower returns than the period just preceding the recent crisis.” But he said Barclays aimed to reach a return on equity of at least 13 percent by 2013. Mr. Diamond said he would review the bank’s portfolio of assets and find ways to cut operating costs to achieve that goal. Staff costs rose 20 percent, to $19.1 billion from $15.9 billion in 2009, of which bonuses accounted for $5.6 billion, up from $4.5 billion. Costs at Barclays Capital rose to $13.3 billion from $10.6 billion as it hired staff members and invested in technology. Richard Hunter, head of British equities at Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers in London, said the earnings were “representative of something of a return to normality.” Mr. Diamond came under some criticism last month after telling a parliamentary committee in London that it was time to stop blaming banks for the financial crisis. In an attempt to justify his remarks, Mr. Diamond said on Tuesday that “we as banks need to do more to help foster economic growth and job creation as well as helping the public understand better the significant role we already play in this regard.” Barclays said the year was off to a good start and that it expected loan write-offs to drop again in 2011, but not as much as in 2010. Advertisement