Deal makers have been thinking big this year. Buoyed by some of the biggest deals in recent memory, 2014 has so far been the kind of year that bankers and lawyers have been awaiting for some time. “People are willing to make bigger bets on transactions than they were two years ago,” said Stephen Arcano, a partner at the law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom. And it appears that the factors that have been driving the waves of consolidation will keep propelling mergers for the rest of the year. At first glance, many of the statistics that define merger activity for the first half of the year are eye-popping: Deals worth nearly $1.77 trillion were announced in the first six months of 2014, according to Thomson Reuters, up nearly 73 percent from the period a year earlier and more than in the first six months of any year since 2007.  Much of that was spurred by a smattering of blockbuster transactions, like AT&T’s $48.5 billion bid for DirecTV; Comcast’s $45 billion offer for Time Warner Cable; and Facebook’s $19 billion deal for WhatsApp. Over all, 18,217 deals have been announced, down 0.4 percent from the period a year earlier and the lowest level of announced transactions since 2005. In the high end of the market, however, business is booming. Forty-six deals worth more than $5 billion have been announced this year, 130 percent more than last year. The difference is even starker on a dollar basis: these announced megadeals were worth $740.7 billion, up nearly 231 percent. Many of the factors underpinning the growth have been little changed since the end of the financial crisis. Companies are sitting on enormous amounts of cash. And borrowing has rarely been cheaper, with the Federal Reserve keeping interest rates low. But much of the work done to bolster stock growth, such as cost cuts and stock buybacks and special dividends, has already been completed. Accomplishing more requires more drastic action. That has prompted companies to buy growth through acquisitions. Management teams have been dusting off corporate playbooks for potential deals. And as companies have pursued industry-changing mergers, their peers have been forced to weigh the cost of inaction — and many have chosen to act. “What’s different now is that you have catalysts in industries that are causing managements and boards to act because their industry structures are changing,” said Michael Carr, the head of Americas mergers and acquisitions at Goldman Sachs. “And in some ways, the stakes of not acting have gone up.” Investors have been largely rewarding companies for taking action, with stocks of acquirers climbing — they normally fall as shareholders worry about the potential for overpaying for deals. That sort of positive reaction inspires others weighing takeover bids to jump in, confident that shareholders will be on their side. “We went back and looked to the share price reaction of acquirers. It’s higher in 2014 than we’ve seen in at least the last 20 years,” said Patrick Ramsey, a co-head of Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Americas mergers business. “That’s a huge source of confidence and validation not just for the people doing the deals, but for their peers and others.” Another sign of emboldened deal makers: a rise in hostile and unsolicited takeover bids. Unsolicited transactions worth about $145.1 billion have been announced this year, reaching levels unseen in seven years. The surge in activity has been led by the likes of Valeant Pharmaceuticals’ $53 billion bid for the Botox maker Allergan and the drug maker AbbVie’s $46 billion offer for its Irish counterpart Shire. Once seen as distasteful, such unsolicited bids are now just a standard part of the M.&A. tool kit, advisers say. “What was once maybe viewed as a vice has become much more acceptable,” Mr. Arcano said. AbbVie’s pursuit of Shire also highlights how taxes are becoming an increasingly important driver for deals, particularly within sectors like the health care industry. The deal would be structured as a so-called inversion, in which the American buyer would essentially be allowed to reincorporate in country like Ireland or the Netherlands with a significantly lower tax rate. Pfizer’s thwarted $119 billion bid for AstraZeneca of Britain and Medtronic’s $43 billion deal for the Irish lab equipment maker Covidien were also done as inversions, meant in part to cut the buyers’ taxes. Buyers protest that the tax rationale is not the only reason to pursue such a deal — the transactions must make sense strategically in the first place — but analysts calculated that Pfizer could have saved some $200 million for each percentage point of taxes that it cut in the deal. “Everyone is talking about it, from M.&A. professionals to people on Capitol Hill,” Mr. Arcano said. The emergence of hostile deals and the prospect that some of America’s biggest corporate names are weighing a change of address to cut their taxes has prompted an outcry among some in Congress. Some lawmakers have proposed a moratorium on inversions. Fearing that the move may eventually be outlawed, companies are plowing ahead in search of foreign targets that fit the inversion mold. Strikingly, however, one of the most deal-focused sets of buyers has been largely sitting out this year’s boom. Private equity firms’ announced transactions — worth $117.1 billion — accounted for just 7 percent of all mergers, down nearly half from the same time a year ago. While such companies focus on buying up targets, these firms find themselves increasingly unable to compete with corporate rivals that can take advantage of bigger cost savings to justify higher prices. “The proportion of M.&A. with respect to financial sponsors has dropped simply because the size and scope of M.&A. among corporate buyers is so high,” Mr. Carr of Goldman said. Despite the torrid pace of the first half of the year, deal makers say that the second half is likely to keep them busy. Sprint, for example, is widely expected to announce a merger with T-Mobile US. And more health care and tech deals are in the works, advisers say. “At times,” Mr. Arcano said, “it feels like we’re drinking out of a fire hose.”  A version of this article appears in print on 07/01/2014, on page B8 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Mergers Hit a 7-Year High, Propelled by a Series of Blockbuster Deals. Advertisement