7:16 p.m. | Updated  PARIS — The French drug maker Sanofi-Aventis said on Wednesday that it had agreed to buy the American biotechnology company Genzyme for at least $20.1 billion in cash, with additional payments possible based on the performance of Genzyme’s drugs. The acquisition is one of the largest by a French company and the second-largest deal in biotechnology after Roche’s purchase of Genentech in 2008, according to Thomson Reuters data. But the size did not faze Sanofi’s chief executive, Christopher A. Viehbacher. “I’m not a scientist, I’m a C.P.A., and I don’t spend $20 billion unless I see the value in that,” he said on a conference call with reporters. “We don’t have financing difficulties,” he added. “We have difficulty finding the right ideas to finance.” The deal ends months of haggling after Sanofi unsuccessfully sought to acquire Genzyme for $18.5 billion and Genzyme’s board resisted. Mr. Viehbacher said the deal took so long to complete because while the two companies agreed on 90 percent of Genzyme’s value, “10 percent of $20 billion is a lot of money.” Under the terms of the deal, Sanofi is paying an initial $74 a share for Genzyme, and shareholders could receive up to an additional $14 a share if certain drugs meet specific performance targets. That could add as much as $3.8 billion to the total price of the deal. Henri A. Termeer, the chief executive of Genzyme, which is based in Cambridge, Mass., said the transaction represented “a new beginning” for his company. The deal, which has the unanimous approval of both companies’ boards, is expected to close in the second quarter. Sanofi has already had the deal cleared by the European Commission and the Federal Trade Commission in Washington. Sanofi expects the deal to have a positive effect on its earnings by the end of the year and to increase them as much as $1.35 a share by 2013. Elias A. Zerhouni, a former director of the National Institutes of Health who was appointed to head Sanofi’s research laboratories and advise Mr. Viehbacher, said on Wednesday that buying Genzyme was a way to “inherit many years of investments in one transaction.” The deal hinges on a so-called contingent value right for each Genzyme share that promises extra payouts for Genzyme shareholders if certain drugs hit sales and production targets. Those drugs include Lemtrada, a treatment for multiple sclerosis that is known as Campath when used as a cancer treatment, as well as Cerezyme and Fabrazyme, which are for rare diseases. Mr. Viehbacher said that the contingent value right “served as an important value bridge between our two companies” and that it rewarded all shareholders, “particularly if Lemtrada outperforms the market’s current expectations.” Set to be publicly traded, the contingent value right will pay $1 a share if Genzyme meets its production targets for Cerezyme and Fabrazyme, the output of which was slowed because of viral contamination at its plant in 2009. It will pay out another $1 a share if Lemtrada wins approval from the Food and Drug Administration to treat multiple sclerosis. The payouts gradually increase if certain sales targets are met, to a maximum of $14. “On realistic assumptions, this is going to pay out at $78” a share, said Marc Booty, who manages investments for Pictet Asset Management in London. Mr. Booty said he assumed that Genzyme treatments would hit their first aggregate target of $400 million in net sales in a period set, but not disclosed, by Sanofi, which would bring just part of the contingent value payments. Genzyme’s shares closed up 80 cents, or 1.07 percent, at $75.10. Sanofi’s American depository receipts gained 46 cents, or 1.33 percent, to $34.95. In the conference call, Mr. Termeer said that he and Mr. Viehbacher differed over the degree of certainty they felt regarding prospects for Lemtrada, which, he said, would change how multiple sclerosis was treated. “If we do get $2.8 billion in sales from Lemtrada, I’m going to personally bring the check to Henri, as well as his favorite wine,” Mr. Viehbacher said.  Sanofi hired Evercore Partners and JPMorgan Chase as financial advisers, and Weil, Gotshal & Manges as its legal adviser. Morgan Stanley also advised Sanofi. Genzyme hired Credit Suisse and Goldman Sachs as financial advisers and Ropes & Gray as legal adviser, while Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz served as legal adviser for Genzyme’s independent directors. Advertisement