The Mexican paint maker Consorcio Comex has agreed to sell itself to PPG Industries, just months after an earlier sale agreement fell apart. PPG Industries, a paint and coating maker based in Pittsburgh, said on Monday that it would pay $2.3 billion for Comex, a privately held company based in Mexico City. The chief executive of PPG said the deal would enlarge its presence in Latin America. The agreement provides Comex with a new acquirer after a deal with Sherwin-Williams, the United States paint giant, fell apart in April. That deal, dating to 2012, had been challenged by the Mexican authorities on antitrust grounds. Sherwin-Williams, when it terminated the deal on April 4, said it was allowed to do so because the merger had not been completed by March 31. But Comex sued the company, arguing that Sherwin-Williams had not tried hard enough to make the deal happen. In announcing the new deal on Monday, the chief executive of PPG, Charles E. Bunch, emphasized that his company had little overlap with Comex in Latin American markets. “The acquisition is very complementary to PPG as it adds a leading architectural coatings business in Mexico and Central America, a region where we have negligible architectural coatings presence,” Mr. Bunch said in a statement. “We are excited to participate in the growing Mexican economy and look forward to working with the Comex team as we integrate the business into PPG.” PPG expects to finance the acquisition largely through cash on hand, with the possible addition of debt, the company said. PPG had $3 billion of cash and short-term investments as of March 31. The board approved a $2 billion share buyback plan in April and increased the quarterly dividend due in June. Comex, founded in 1952, sells coatings and other products in about 3,600 independently owned stores. It also sells directly to customers and through retailers and wholesalers. The company reported revenue of about $1 billion in 2013. “Being part of PPG gives us new opportunities and synergies that will allow us to continue to significantly grow in our markets,” Marcos Achar Levy, the chief executive of Comex, said in a statement. The deal is subject to regulatory approval. A version of this article appears in print on 07/01/2014, on page B8 of the NewYork edition with the headline: New Acquirer. Advertisement