HONG KONG — This little piggy is going to the market after all. Three months after it scrapped plans for a $5.3 billion share sale in Hong Kong, China’s WH Group, the world’s biggest pork producer, is back with a leaner offering that will seek to raise about $2 billion. WH Group was created last year after Shuanghui International of China paid $4.7 billion in cash for Smithfield Foods, the biggest pork producer in the United States. That deal remains the biggest-ever buyout of an American company by a Chinese one. The enlarged group announced plans in April to raise as much as $5.3 billion in a Hong Kong initial public offering, a deal that was criticized as being bloated with an unprecedented 29 underwriters. The I.P.O. was later slashed to $1.9 billion before ultimately being canceled because of lackluster demand. Investors were put off by WH’s hefty debt levels, the I.P.O.’s steep asking price and the company’s decision to award its top two executives a combined $600 million bonus for 2013. On top of this, an outbreak of porcine epidemic diarrhea virus in the United States led to sharp increases in hog prices this spring, complicating WH’s plans to export pork from the United States to China. Now WH is trying again, hoping that a more modest fund-raising target, a cheaper valuation and only two underwriters — Morgan Stanley and Bank of China International — will help ensure success. The company plans to raise 15.9 billion Hong Kong dollars by selling 2.567 billion new shares, or an 18 percent stake, in an I.P.O. priced at 6.20 dollars per share, a person with direct knowledge of the deal said Tuesday, declining to be named because the information was not yet public. In April, the company had sought to sell the shares in a price range of 8 dollars to 11.25 dollars apiece. The company’s management will start a roadshow to market the deal to potential investors on Wednesday, the person said, with final pricing scheduled to be set Tuesday and trading in the shares to begin on Aug. 5. About 30 large financial institutions, including sovereign wealth funds and hedge funds, have tentatively given commitments to subscribe to the shares, which are being offered at a valuation that represents 11.5 times the company’s estimated earnings for 2014, the person added. That compares with a price-to-earnings multiple of 15 times at Henan Shuanghui Investment & Development, WH’s domestic unit, which is listed on the Shenzhen stock exchange. A version of this article appears in print on 07/23/2014, on page B5 of the NewYork edition with the headline: I.P.O. Revisted. Advertisement