WASHINGTON — The Dodd-Frank Act is expensive. The new financial regulatory law will cost the Securities and Exchange Commission $123 million in 2012, according to Mary L. Schapiro, the agency’s chairwoman. To put Dodd-Frank into effect, she told lawmakers on Thursday, her agency will need more money — and a lot of it. The White House agrees with Ms. Schapiro, but Congressional Republicans are threatening to cut the S.E.C.’s funding sharply. Ms. Schapiro warned lawmakers that budget cuts would be a big mistake. “This year finds the S.E.C. at an especially critical juncture in its history,” she said in written testimony prepared for the Senate Banking Committee’s panel on securities, insurance and investment. “Dodd-Frank will require significant additional resources or a substantial reduction in the performance of our core duties.” The law granted the S.E.C. broad new authority over credit rating agencies, the vast and complex derivatives markets and — for the first time — many hedge fund advisers. Among other mandates of the Dodd-Frank Act, the S.E.C. is supposed to write more than 100 new rules, open five new offices and publish more than 20 studies.  Quite simply, Ms. Schapiro said, the law has “added significantly to the S.E.C.’s workload.” Yet the agency’s budget remains frozen at $1.1 billion. It was also frozen between 2005 and 2007, a period when the agency’s staffing level fell 10 percent, and its roster only recently returned to its 2005 level. The securities industry, meanwhile, has continued to grow. The S.E.C. now oversees some 12,000 investment advisers and 5,000 broker-dealers, including Wall Street’s top investment banks.  The Obama administration has proposed raising the agency’s budget by $264 million, to $1.4 billion for 2012. The Dodd-Frank law requires the S.E.C. to offset its entire budget by collecting fees on securities transactions. That means the agency’s funding would not cost taxpayers a dime, Ms. Schapiro said.  The administration’s proposed funding increase would allow the S.E.C. to hire 780 people, 60 percent of which would be assigned to Dodd-Frank mandates, according to her testimony. Ms. Schapiro said the agency needs more than 100 new staff members just to focus on hedge funds. The requested increase is “designed to provide the S.E.C. with the resources required to achieve several high-priority goals,” she said. In contrast, the Republican-controlled House of Representatives passed a spending measure in February that would cut the agency’s budget by $25 million.  But the current budget is already “severely restraining” the S.E.C. from hiring staff members, including for filling vacant positions. The agency also has decided to delay proposing aspects of the Dodd-Frank law, including the creation of a credit rating agency oversight office.  Ms. Schapiro made a case to lawmakers that her agency was crucial to maintaining the securities industry. “We have worked tirelessly to make the S.E.C. more vigilant, agile and responsive,” she said. It was a big day for defending the S.E.C.’S budget. Several of the agency’s top officials, including its enforcement chief, Robert Khuzami, testified about the funding levels before the House Financial Services Committee.  Advertisement