DealBook doesn’t normally have jurisdiction over covering the Academy Awards, but last night’s ceremony provided us with an in. “Inside Job,” a searing piece of muckraking on the causes of the financial crisis, took home the Oscar for best documentary. Charles Ferguson, the film’s outspoken director, stayed in character when he bounded up on the stage and opened his remarks by lambasting Wall Street. “Forgive me, I must start by pointing out that three years after our horrific financial crisis caused by massive fraud, not a single financial executive has gone to jail, and that’s wrong,” Mr. Ferguson said, as the Hollywood crowd erupted in applause. Joe Nocera, a DealBook colleague, who has previously written about “Inside Job,” addressed this issue in his column
last week. Examining why the government wasn’t bringing criminal charges against Angelo R. Mozilo, the chief executive of the mortgage lender Countrywide Financial, Mr. Nocera observed that through the crisis and up until today, Mr. Mozilo praised subprime loans as a way to help lower-income individuals buy into the American dream. For every e-mail in which Mr. Mozilo acknowledged the dangers of subprime lending, there was other evidence that he thought Countrywide’s mortgage business was strong. Mr. Nocera points to recently released government testimony in which Mr. Mozilo called Countrywide “was one of the greatest companies in the world.” “Mr. Mozilo would have been difficult to prosecute,” Mr. Nocera concludes. “Delusion is an iron-clad defense.” As for Mr. Ferguson, the filmmaker, after making one of the few — perhaps the only — political statement of the night, he and producer, Audrey Marrs, played it straight. “But this is about the movies,” Mr. Ferguson said, as he transitioned into a gracious acceptance speech. “Thank you for this profound honor.”  DealBook caught with Mr. Ferguson for an interview in October, when he talked about his life as a filmmaker, and again in February, when he discussed regulatory reform on Wall Street.  Advertisement