Advertisement MAY 20, 2014
 William Dudley, the president of the New York Federal Reserve, said on Tuesday he expected inflation to drift higher over the remainder of the year, though “excess capacity” in the economy is helping to moderate price pressures. Mr. Dudley’s remarks come as the Fed grapples with several major issues, including when to raise interest rates, and when to start scaling back its more than $4 trillion balance sheet. After more than five years of highly accommodative monetary policy, including near zero interest rates and bond purchases, the Fed is facing pressure from policy hawks to tighten and raise rates more quickly. Mr. Dudley has tended to join the Fed chairwoman, Janet Yellen, in a more dovish stance. That was reflected in his remarks on Tuesday at a lunch hosted by the New York Association for Business Economics. Speaking at an event in New York, Mr. Dudley said that while headwinds are growing less severe, the trajectory of economic growth continues to disappoint. He also made a point to say that inflation is rising but not sharply, and that the Fed’s 2 percent inflation target is not a ceiling. “I would expect that we would spend as much time slightly above 2 percent as below it, recognizing that we will hardly ever be exactly at 2 percent because of the inherent volatility in prices,” he said. Advertisement In 2011, the Fed outlined its so-called exit strategy in which halting reinvestments was the first step to shrinking its balance sheet, which now tops $4 trillion, down to around $1 trillion. If the Fed sticks to plan, a decision to stop reinvesting bond proceeds from Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities would precede any increase in interest rates and mark the beginning of the Fed’s first tightening cycle since 2004-2006. Mr. Dudley on Tuesday said he supported the view that the Fed should delay ending its balance sheet reinvestments until after the central bank raises rates. He said that some economists had argued that the amount of slack in the labor market may be smaller than suggested by the official unemployment rate. Mr. Dudley took issue with this notion, a view held by Yellen. Advertisement He said that in his view some of the factors holding down inflation “were one-offs and are now dropping out of the year-over-year figures.” He added, “In some other areas, such as owners’ equivalent rent, price pressures look likely to firm somewhat.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »