Updated, 7:54 p.m. | A federal judge on Tuesday upheld the Obama administration’s effort to rein in the sort of overseas trading that imploded in the financial crisis, upending Wall Street’s plan to roll back the regulatory overhaul. The 92-page ruling from Judge Paul L. Friedman of the Federal District Court in  Washington — a surprising blow to some of the world’s biggest banks — hands a victory to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which drafted the overhaul. Unencumbered by costly litigation, which was filed by some of Wall Street’s top trade groups, the agency is now able to reach far beyond American shores in its oversight. Timothy G. Massad, chairman of the commission, applauded the decision, saying, “I am pleased the court upheld the commission’s” effort. Mr. Massad said he was “committed to continuing our efforts to reform” the markets, “including addressing Congress’s concerns that risks undertaken abroad might threaten the health of the U.S. economy.” The ruling will also protect the legacy of Mr. Massad’s predecessor, Gary Gensler, the former banker who staked his commission tenure on the outcome of the regulatory crackdown. People close to the agency long feared that Wall Street would use the courts to unwind many of the changes Mr. Gensler adopted after the crisis. Although Judge Friedman ordered the trading commission to revisit the economic costs of some rules, his support for the cross-border regulation signaled a broader shift in the balance of power in the courtroom. After years of Wall Street unwinding regulations through court battles in Washington — where judges often sympathize with corporate concerns about overzealous regulators — the trading commission has won three recent cases there. “Today, proponents of financial reform secured a major victory,” Representative Maxine Waters of California, the ranking Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee, said in a statement. The overseas trading case centers on the commission’s so-called cross-border guidance, a July 2013 document that outlined how to apply United States regulations to foreign banks and American banks doing business abroad.The guidance grew from the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, which mandated an overhaul of the $700 trillion marketplace for derivatives, financial contracts that derive their value from an underlying asset like a bond and allow companies to speculate in the markets or hedge risk. The derivatives trade, regulators and lawmakers argued, is a lucrative business for banks that arrange such contracts in the shadows of Wall Street rather than in the light of public exchanges. The risks came to light after the financial crisis, when derivatives contracts pushed the insurance giant American International Group to the brink of collapse before it received a government bailout. JPMorgan Chase’s $6 billion trading loss in London ignited similar concerns about overseas risk-taking returning to American shores. Under Dodd-Frank, the trading commission is permitted to apply new derivatives rules overseas — including a requirement that trades pass through regulated clearinghouses that act as backstops — if the foreign trading has “a direct and significant connection with activities” of the United States. The law left it to the agency to sort out the details, touching off a Wall Street lobbying frenzy and a messy struggle among the trading commission’s five-member panel. It took months of squabbling before Mr. Gensler and his fellow commissioners struck a deal, just hours before a self-imposed deadline. The deal enabled the agency to apply Dodd-Frank rules to overseas companies that are guaranteed by an American bank, including Goldman Sachs International. Foreign branches like the British branch of Citigroup or JPMorgan would also face oversight. In a compromise, however, Mr. Gensler agreed to phase in the oversight over several months and to defer to foreign regulators if they adopt similar rules. That did not placate the banks. Last December, the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, known as Sifma, joined the International Swaps and Derivatives Association and the Institute of International Bankers in suing the trading commission.The case reflected Wall Street’s concern that Mr. Gensler had gone too far, constraining its ordinary course of business. “The court’s ruling on the status of the cross-border guidance leaves uncertainties,” Sifma said in a statement, citing “significant concern to market participants.”  In filing the suit, the trade groups accused the agency of “unlawfully” classifying its plan as “guidance” rather than as a formal rule, allowing it to circumvent the procedures for imposing new regulations. The agency, the groups said, also did not fully consider the costs the rule might impose on the industry and the broader economy. Judge Friedman, citing Wall Street’s attempt to “cherry-pick phrases” in the guidance, rejected that argument. He said the commission’s “decision to provide such a nonbinding policy statement benefits market participants and cannot now, all other things being equal, be turned against it.”  A version of this article appears in print on 09/17/2014, on page B4 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Federal Judge Rules to Uphold U.S. Effort to Regulate Overseas Trading. Advertisement