 LONDON — Virgin Money, the British financial services company partly owned by the billionaire Richard Branson, has named Glen R. Moreno, the chairman of the publishing firm Pearson, as its chairman. The appointment of Mr. Moreno comes as Virgin Money is contemplating an initial public offering by some time next year. He will join Virgin’s board of directors in January and is expected to replace David Clementi as chairman in mid-2015. Virgin Money is considered a challenger to the larger, more traditional lenders that dominate the banking landscape in Britain. Mr. Moreno formerly served as acting chairman of United Kingdom Financial Investments, which oversees the British government’s stake in banks that were bailed out during the financial crisis. Mr. Moreno is a former executive at Citigroup and is a director of Fidelity International. Pearson, where he serves as chairman, is the publisher of The Financial Times. “It is now one of the best performing challenger banks and I look forward to joining Virgin Money at such an exciting time,” Mr. Moreno said in a news release on Friday. On Friday, Virgin Money said its underlying profit before tax rose to 59.7 million pounds, or about $96.8 million, in the first six months of 2014, up from £13.1 million in the first half of 2013. Underlying profit excludes certain charges to provide a better comparison between periods. The company’s statutory profit before tax fell to £6.7 million in the first half of 2014, down from £199.7 million in the same period a year earlier. The first half of 2014 included a £16.6 million government levy for a fund to protect customers in the event a financial services firm collapses and an additional provision of £26 million to pay the British government if Virgin Money completes a successful I.P.O. by the end of 2016. That follows its acquisition of Northern Rock, a British bank that was nationalized during the financial crisis. The prior-year period included a £202 million gain on the sale of its credit card business. Net interest income – the measure of what a bank earns on its lending after deducting what it pays out on deposits and other liabilities – increased 32 percent to £172.7 million in the first half of the year. In 2011, Virgin Money acquired Northern Rock, which was split into a “good” bank and a “bad” bank, for an initial payment of £747 million, plus a £73 million payment last year. The company returned to profitability this year. In July, Virgin Money paid £154.5 million to buy back capital notes held by the British government the lender. Virgin Money has been considering an I.P.O. as its financial prospects have improved. Sky News reported in August that the offering could happen as soon as this year. Virgin Money will make an additional payment to the British government if it completes a successful I.P.O. by the end of 2016. Advertisement