Updated, 8:13 p.m. | Symantec on Thursday became the latest technology company to announce plans to split in two. The company, which has a market value of more than $16 billion, will become two publicly traded companies — one focused on security and the other on information management. The announcement follows that of Hewlett-Packard,  which announced on Monday that it planned to spin off its personal computer and printer business into a new company called HP Inc. What remains will be known as Hewlett-Packard Enterprise and will focus on business clients. And a week before HP’s announcement, eBay said it would turn its PayPal unit into a new publicly traded company, bowing to the wishes of Carl C. Icahn, the activist billionaire investor. “We really are in two businesses, and there are a lot of disruptive trends in each,” said Michael A. Brown, chief executive of Symantec, which is based in Mountain View, Calif. “The best way to execute better and grow faster is to be separating into two companies.” By DAVID GELLES Activist investors are eager to take small stakes in big companies and call for breakups, betting that profit will follow. Unlike HP, which has been burdened by the slow growing market for printers and PCs, Symantec said both of its businesses were still growing fast. “We don’t have a business that’s old and one that’s new,” Mr. Brown said. “These are both industry leaders in growing markets.” The security business, which is what Symantec is best known for, provides products and services to governments, companies and individuals, and is the market leader. Revenue from the security business was $4.2 billion in the last fiscal year. The information management business creates backup software, and had revenue of $2.5 billion last year. The split will be tax-free to shareholders, reducing the likelihood of a taxable competing bid from a bigger rival for either unit. No activist investor appeared to be pressing Symantec for a split. ValueAct, a hedge fund, had taken a stake this year, but has sold its shares. Mr. Brown said no activist was exerting pressure behind the scenes, either. More splits may follow. EMC, a big data storage company, is under pressure from the activist hedge fund Elliott Management to break apart, notably with a full spinoff of VMware, a virtualization company of which it owns 20 percent. Elliott outlined its thoughts for a separation on Wednesday, and EMC said it was in talks with the hedge fund, but stopped short of rebutting any of the ideas it had put forward. A version of this article appears in print on 10/10/2014, on page B5 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Symantec to Split Security and Information Divisions. Advertisement