Whiting Petroleum Corporation on Sunday said it would buy Kodiak Oil & Gas Corporation for $3.8 billion in stock, and assume $2.2 billion of Kodiak’s debt. The deal will unite two big exploration and production companies, both of which have a strong presence in the Bakken and Three Forks formations, some of the most oil and gas rich areas of the Dakotas and Montana. Combined, Whiting and Kodiak will be the biggest producer in the region, the companies said, producing more than 107,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day. “That was the real reason we came together,” James J. Volker, Whiting’s chief executive, said in an interview. The combined company will have 855,000 net acres, and 3,460 future drilling locations. Both companies are based in Denver, and have competed for many years. “The two companies, culturally, are very similar,” Lynn A. Peterson, Kodiak’s chief executive, said in an interview. “It was a natural fit.” The companies hope to achieve cost savings by combining their workforces. “The savings can be a billion dollars to us over time, most of that over the next five years,” Mr. Volker said. “Our two acreage positions fit together hand in glove.” Mr. Peterson said it was a good deal for Kodiak shareholders. “There’s tremendous upside, that’s why we were comfortable with a stock transaction,” he said. “We wanted to give our shareholders an opportunity to participate in the upside.” Under the terms of the deal, Kodiak shareholders will receive .177 of a share of Whiting stock for each share of Kodiak common stock they own, or about $13.90 a share. That amounts to a small premium of just 5 percent above Kodiak’s volume weighted average price over the last 60 trading days. Whiting shareholders will own 71 percent of the combined company, and Kodiak shareholders 29 percent. JPMorgan advised Whiting, and Foley & Lardner and Stikeman Elliott provided legal advice. Petrie Partners Securities advised Kodiak, Credit Suisse advised Kodiak’s board, and Dorsey & Whitney and Miller Thomson provided legal advice to Kodiak. Advertisement