Updated, 7:47 p.m. | LONDON –  A fund led by the activist investor William A. Ackman stumbled badly in its trading debut in Amsterdam on Monday. The fund, Pershing Square Holdings, had raised more than $3 billion by this month in its initial public offering and through investments by existing investors in other Ackman funds. The offering price was $25 a share, valuing the fund at $6.2 billion. But the stock, trading under the ticker PSH.AS, took a 12 percent skid in its first day on the Euronext Amsterdam bourse, closing at $22. The debut of Pershing Square Holdings came on a mixed day for stocks in Europe. While the major indexes in Amsterdam and Brussels declined, stocks in Frankfurt, London and Paris moved higher. The shares of several recent I.P.O.s in Europe have been under pressure, despite strong demand at their initial offerings. The German shopping website Zalando, for instance, was trading 13 percent below its offer price on Monday, and the German technology company Rocket Internet was down more than 17 percent from its initial price. Spie, the French engineering and construction company, postponed its planned I.P.O. last week, citing “particularly volatile market conditions.” The company had hoped to raise at least $1 billion in its offering. By listing the fund, Mr. Ackman is expected to have a permanent pool of capital to make bigger, bolder bets, like his bid with Valeant Pharmaceuticals for Allergan, the maker of Botox. Mr. Ackman and Valeant increased their offer for Allergan to nearly $60 billion in cash and stock this month. Pershing Square Holdings has no plans to invest in European companies and will adhere to the overarching strategy of the rest of the funds, concentrating on North America. “The listing will dramatically expand our shareholder base, improving the stability of our capital and our ability to implement our long-term, active investment strategy,” Mr. Ackman said in a statement on Monday. Mr. Ackman visited London this year to drum up support for the fund among European investors, and at one point considered listing in London before settling on Amsterdam. He confirmed plans for the I.P.O. in September. Pershing Square Holdings was started in 2012 and invests alongside other funds managed by Mr. Ackman’s firm, Pershing Square Capital Management, which focuses primarily on North American large-capitalization companies. The offering raised about $2.73 billion. The fund also raised $212.5 million from existing investors who swapped their investments in another Ackman fund for the new shares. Members of the management team at Pershing Square Capital Management bought an additional $129 million of stock. The fund will be separate from Pershing Square Capital Management, which has $14.1 billion in assets under management. Advertisement