Subprime lenders have surprised everyone in recent years by churning out billions of dollars in loans that have not led to a pileup of bad debts. But this month, some signs have appeared that suggest subprime lenders are pushing this spree to the limit. The problems are occurring when they extend credit to particularly risky borrowers or make loans that are harder to repay. The latest indicators are a reminder of the constraint that has always dogged subprime lending: The number of stressed borrowers who can take on debt and repay it with relative ease is often smaller than lenders believe. “We’re five years into the new cycle, so you’ve got to imagine that there are excesses cropping up,” said William Ryan, of Portales Partners, a research firm. Though the subprime market has been associated with the 2008 housing crisis, it remains a lucrative slice of the lending sector, in part because creditors can earn more in interest on subprime loans than on conventional ones. Banks and private equity firms searching for high-yield investments have fueled a boom in subprime auto loans to buyers who can’t afford them, including those who recently filed for bankruptcy. Signs that all is not well with subprime lending came to the fore on Sept. 2, when Conn’s, a retailer that lends to its customers, reported higher-than-expected defaults. “What we’re seeing is that once the customers become delinquent beyond a certain period of time,” Theodore M. Wright, chief executive of Conn’s, said in a conference call, “they simply are not able to resolve that delinquency in the way that we’ve expected.” The jarring numbers helped wipe nearly a third off the value of Conn’s stock that day and prompted credit analysts to check their assumptions about the remarkable recovery in subprime lending over the last several years. While the market for subprime mortgages is still moribund, a resurgence of subprime auto loans has taken place. Companies that make subprime loans to consumers — those with credit scores generally below 620 — to buy items like appliances, one of the riskiest types of lending, have also experienced something of a revival. This has created the impression that lending to less creditworthy borrowers can actually be a sustainable business. The numbers are not small. Investors have gobbled up nearly $80 billion of new bonds backed with subprime auto loans since the financial crisis, according to data from Barclays. Low interest rates have helped drive the demand for auto-loan-backed securities. But the strong appetite has persisted for so long because, at least for now, the loans inside the bonds have not shown worryingly high levels of defaults. The fate of subprime auto lending may have a wider impact. The lending has fueled car production, which has in turn buoyed the economy. “Automobile production and subsequent sales have become a leading barometer of growth in this part of the economic cycle,” Jim Vogel, an interest rates strategist at FTN Financial, said. “It used to be housing, and now it’s autos.” But history shows that a splurge on subprime lending nearly always leads to a crippling cascade of problems. While credit analysts do not yet see signs of an imminent marketwide disaster, they say that fissures are appearing in certain parts of the subprime sector. For instance, around the same time that Conn’s released its disappointing default figures, a report indicating weakness in auto loans rattled the markets. Experian, a credit reporting agency, said this month that subprime auto lenders had repossessed cars at a significantly higher rate in the second quarter. Repossessions carried out by finance companies, nonbank firms that focus mainly on subprime borrowers, rose to 2.75 percent of loans in the second quarter, from 1.13 percent in the same period a year earlier. Analysts caution that repossession data can be noisy and erratic. Still, the 143 percent increase prompted fears that lenders have been making auto loans that people cannot afford. “That end of the market is more stressed than people had realized,” Mr. Ryan said. Experian’s numbers showed that “deep subprime” auto loans — or ones made to people with credit scores below 550 — were growing faster than any other type of auto loan. Deep-subprime loans increased 13 percent in the second quarter, or about 770,000 loans, compared with the same period a year earlier. That jump far outpaced the 5 percent increase for regular subprime loans. At the same time, the term — the period in which a loan must be repaid — of subprime auto loans is increasing, on average. This can be an indicator that lenders are stretching to make their loans seem affordable to borrowers. By lengthening the term of a loan, monthly payments are spread out over a longer period, making each of them smaller. The danger is that borrowers are induced to take on more debt than they can manage. Also, the value of the car is likely to fall by a larger amount over the period of a lengthier loan, which means the lender may end up saddled with higher losses if it has to repossess the car. The average length of subprime auto loans was 71.2 months in the second quarter, according to Experian, up from 70 months a year earlier. “You always look over your shoulder as the term of the loan extends, regardless of the apparent credit scores of the borrowers,” Mr. Vogel, the strategist, said. The problems at Conn’s, which sells appliances, furniture and other home goods and operates primarily in the South and Southwest, are a sign that some consumers are getting stretched to the breaking point. Some of its borrowers, already having to pay rents or mortgages and make car loan payments, ended up not having enough money to pay back their Conn’s credit. “Over all, we are very focused on making sure we put the customer in a position to repay their finance contract and ultimately shop at Conn’s again,” Angela Lagrone, a Conn’s spokeswoman, said in a statement. “This is in everyone’s best interest.” When booms in subprime lending show signs of fraying, financial questions start to loom over the lenders. The World Acceptance Corporation, a firm that makes high-cost subprime consumer loans, announced last week that KPMG had resigned as its auditor, causing its stock to plummet. Neither World Acceptance nor KPMG gave a reason for the accounting firm’s decision. But KPMG’s relationship with World Acceptance, a lender with nearly 1,300 stores across the country, appears to have been strained in recent months. The accounting firm identified material weaknesses in World Acceptance’s financial controls when it audited the company’s annual report for the fiscal year ended March 2013. And World Acceptance said in June that KPMG required additional time to complete its audit of the 2014 annual report. In the past, subprime lenders have taken potentially ill-advised steps to stop the defaults from piling up. One tactic has been to make a new loan to a struggling borrower. Often, such refinancings merely postpone the ultimate default. World Acceptance refinances most of its loans, and it says it takes great care when doing so. KPMG may have had concerns about how this practice was reflected in World Acceptance’s financial statements. A company filing in 2013 said that the material weaknesses identified by KPMG in part focused on “renewals” that might be considered loan modifications. After the 2013 annual report, World Acceptance said it took steps to address KPMG’s concerns. But defaults are rising at the company: Loans on which borrowers are late in paying rose to 9.3 percent of the total in the second quarter, from 8.4 percent a year earlier. More broadly, if past-due loans rise across the subprime sector, the limitations of relying on subprime credit to lift consumer spending will become apparent. “Do households gravitate toward purchases where they can get easy financing terms, as opposed to those that put them on an overall sounder foundation?” Mr. Vogel said. A version of this article appears in print on 09/12/2014, on page B3 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Stressed Borrowers Rattling the Resurgent Subprime Lending Industry. Advertisement