Yahoo, more than any other investor, should have benefited from the public market debut last week of Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce giant.  The company sold Alibaba shares worth $6 billion after taxes, and its remaining stake is valued at $36 billion. Yet Yahoo’s shares have tumbled more than 8 percent since then, highlighting the peculiarly difficult crossroad that now confronts Yahoo and its chief executive, Marissa Mayer. Yahoo could use the proceeds from the Alibaba share sale to go on an acquisition spree to help reinvent itself and regain relevance. But many investors and analysts have been underwhelmed by previous takeover efforts, including the $1.1 billion purchase of the blog network Tumblr, which have yielded few obvious gains. Now restive shareholders are clamoring to receive the bulk of the cash from the Alibaba stake sale, potentially limiting Ms. Mayer’s ability to pursue acquisitions. Sarah Meron, a spokeswoman for Yahoo, declined to comment on the company’s acquisition strategy or its long-term plans for its remaining Alibaba stock, which it has promised to hold for at least a year. The question of Yahoo’s fate will become only more acute over the next year or so. Before Alibaba went public, the only way most shareholders could obtain any sort of financial exposure to Alibaba was to invest in Yahoo because of its stake. Once the public was able to buy Alibaba shares directly, however, the need for Yahoo as a proxy disappeared. Still, the remaining Alibaba stake is by far the single most valuable asset that Ms. Mayer oversees. The second-most valuable one is the company’s 35 percent stake in its Japanese affiliate, Yahoo Japan, which is valued at about $8 billion. 

 
 Yahoo’s market value was about $39 billion as of the close of the market on Thursday. Subtract the expected taxes that selling the Asian companies would generate, and what remains is worth perhaps $13 billion. And what remains, analysts say, is challenged. The company has steadily lost ground in mainstay businesses like selling display and search advertisements as competitors like Facebook, Twitter and automated ad buying systems have risen. Its email offering retains nearly 300 million users but has ceded its crown to Google’s Gmail. Mark Mahaney, a research analyst at RBC Capital Markets, wrote in a research note on Thursday that with the Alibaba initial public offering over, “we see upside as limited from here and now see more compelling risk-reward elsewhere.” He downgraded the shares to sector perform. One deal maker, a Silicon Valley adviser who was not authorized to speak publicly, put it more succinctly: “The company has to be fundamentally rewired.” The easiest way to do that would be through more acquisitions, using the money from the Alibaba share sale. Management has been quick and consistent in proclaiming that at least half of the proceeds will be paid out to investors, probably in the form of a stock buyback. Beyond that, executives have been quiet about what they have in store for their cash pile. The most obvious use would be acquisitions, and bankers have been preparing countless pitches for potential targets, including the business review site Yelp and the hugely popular social network Pinterest. “The type of advertising that Yahoo relies on is fundamentally challenged,” said Jon Miller, a former chief executive of AOL who now invests in technology and media companies. “But buying something like Pinterest could give them at shot at the next turn of the wheel. They need to make some bet on the future of monetization.” When asked, Silicon Valley executives toss out a litany of other possibilities: BuzzFeed; the freewheeling discussion forum Reddit; and the online audio distributor SoundCloud. The list of acquisitions that Yahoo should have made is perhaps even longer. The video game streaming service Twitch, the online video hub Hulu and the online content producer Maker Studios all made some strategic sense. Yet all now belong to other companies. Yahoo executives have sought to play down their company’s reputation as a constant shopper. In a recent call with analysts, the chief financial officer, Kenneth Goldman, noted that the company had spent about $1.3 billion on takeovers over the last two years. By contrast, it used more than $6 billion on share repurchases. It isn’t entirely clear that Yahoo could afford a truly game-changing takeover like Pinterest, either, especially because better-financed rivals could easily drive up the bidding to unaffordable heights. And some start-ups have looked warily at selling out to Ms. Mayer, seeing more prestige in choosing Google or Facebook or in going public. One often-mentioned takeover candidate is AOL, now essentially a smaller version of Yahoo with high-traffic websites like Huffington Post and TechCrunch. But analysts and bankers largely dismissed the possibility of such a transaction. Even if Yahoo were to acquire several more high-traffic sites, that would do little to change investors’ view that the company lacks a long-term vision beyond putting more ads in front of more eyes. One potential risk is that Yahoo again becomes the target of an activist investor, much as it found itself in the sights of the hedge fund magnate Daniel S. Loeb several years ago. Mr. Loeb, unhappy with the company’s performance, lobbied for the hiring of Ms. Mayer as chief executive. (Mr. Loeb sold his shares in the company last year.) Also possible is that Yahoo becomes prey, not predator, especially if potential buyers believe that the company’s core operations are undervalued. Deal makers caution that potential acquirers like private equity firms already took a look at Yahoo a few years ago, when the company’s stock was trading in the midteens, and passed. Its shares closed at $38.95 on Thursday. Perhaps more plausible — if highly improbable anytime soon — is the possibility of a bid by either Alibaba or the other large investor in Yahoo Japan, the Japanese telecommunications company SoftBank. Such a deal could let either Asian company regain Yahoo’s stake in Alibaba or Yahoo Japan without a big tax bill. Still, others in Silicon Valley think the Alibaba stake will keep Yahoo independent for now, with Ms. Mayer able to point to the promises of future riches to buy herself more time. In the end, Yahoo’s biggest priority may simply be finding more tax-efficient ways to sell its stakes in its Asian partners. Mr. Goldman has said as much in recent months, hinting that the company was studying complex transactions to reduce its tax bill. Analysts say that may be the biggest key to bolstering Yahoo’s stock price. But that seeming lack of ambition may highlight a bigger problem, according to Mr. Mahaney of RBC: Ms. Mayer has simply moved too cautiously. “They didn’t take advantage of that window to either improve the product enough or improve their ability to sell the product enough,” he said. “This company has surprisingly not been willing to take enough risks.” By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED The Chinese Internet giant, which raised $21.8 billion in its stock sale, instantly became one of the biggest publicly traded technology companies in the world. 




Yahoo to Buy Tumblr for $1.1 Billion
By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED, NICK BILTON and NICOLE PERLROTH
Yahoo’s move aims to make up for years of missing out on the growth of social networks and mobile devices.

 By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED, NICK BILTON and NICOLE PERLROTH Yahoo’s move aims to make up for years of missing out on the growth of social networks and mobile devices. Vindu Goel contributed reporting.  A version of this article appears in print on 09/26/2014, on page B1 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Yahoo Faces Moment of Decision, Again. Advertisement