DashboardA daily roundup of small-business developments. A daily roundup of small-business developments. In my Dashboard post this morning, This Week in Small Business, I quoted Gary Shouldis, a consultant, talking about ways to use QR codes. Then I followed up with a few more questions: Q: What are the differences between QR codes and bar codes? A: Traditional bar codes — like the ones you see in the supermarket — are linear, one-dimensional bar codes that can typically only hold about 20 alphanumeric characters in its code. A QR code is two-dimensional and can hold thousands of alphanumeric characters, making it much more useful for business use. The QR code allows for encoding more complex information such as links to Web sites, V-cards and longer strings of text. Q: What QR code mobile software application do you recommend?  A: QR codes are primarily used on mobile smartphones. For scanning QR codes, I use Google Goggles because it’s full of cool features beyond just scanning QR codes. I-Nigma is also a very popular QR code reader. Both are available on the major smartphone platforms. For creating your own QR codes, I use Kaywa and Delivr. Both are free and easy to use, though Delivr allows for more advanced features, like being able to edit the URL you are pointing your QR code to — so you can reuse the same QR code over and over again, which is great if you are using them on printed material. Q: Can QR codes be used for anything other than marketing? A: The QR code was actually invented by Denso — a Toyota company — to track automotive parts during the manufacturing process, but has since gained popularity as a marketing tool. QR codes can be used for just about anything you can think of. When my family moved last year, I typed up a list of items that were packed in each box and created a QR code on a sticker for each one. When you scanned the QR code on the outside of the box, it brought up a list of all of the contents inside. I know it’s a bit geeky, but it worked great. Another possibility would be creating QR code stickers for appliances in your home: you can link to the manufacturer’s online instruction manual, to repair services or to an online copy of the original receipt or warranty. Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter. You're the Boss offers an insider's perspective on small-business ownership. It gives business owners a place where they can compare notes, ask questions, get advice, and learn from one another's mistakes. The blog also offers analysis of policy issues, and suggests investing tips.
 The final You're the Boss post was published on Dec. 23. Advertisement