That bigger is better on Wall Street is generally a given (except for regulatory fines and penalties, in which case nonexistent would be preferable). But at least one firm is making the case that success is no longer about just being bigger, but being BETTER. (And, yes, that firm would like you to think about that in all caps, please.) In their monthly newsletter to employees, Richard B. Handler, chief executive of the Jefferies Group, and Brian P. Friedman, chairman of the executive committee, implored the company’s nearly 4,000 employees to rethink how they approach their business and their lives. “From years ago, when the need was MORE resources and MORE capabilities, to more recent years, when we all talked of a BIGGER firm and BIGGER results, the need now is for us to be BETTER, to act BETTER, to deliver BETTER and to win BETTER,” the note said. Why have they chosen better? “We believe a BETTER Jefferies is the logical next step after MORE and BIGGER,” the note said. To better understand the need for bettering, the two executives laid out how the firm had become so much bigger. “In 1999, our investment banking revenues miraculously reached $81 million and we thought there was no way we could ever repeat, let alone beat, that number,” they said. Then, in the 12 months ended in August, the firm generated $3.4 billion in net revenue and $593 million of pretax earnings. (Remember, this is all part of the bigger chapters, which will be followed by the better one, or those in which better paves the way for even bigger.) “To put our investment banking franchise in perspective, our revenues approximate what DLJ recorded at its peak before its year 2000 merger, are nearly twice the size of those of the once mighty Salomon Brothers at its peak and are larger than those of Bear Stearns at its peak in 2007,” they said. Not that size matters, or that anyone is keeping track. But now the goal is better. “For us to take our firm to the next level, it isn’t about the next big hire or an acquisition; it is all about each of us squeezing out the absolute maximum from every single resource across Jefferies, and pushing ourselves to do an even BETTER job for our clients than we have ever done before.” The two noted that they, too, will focus on being better and they will help add resources to make everyone else better including an increasing level of training for everyone at Jefferies, which probably didn’t make anyone feel better at all. “We will focus on each of us as individuals, on the teams we are each part of every day and on our firm as a whole. Jefferies University will do a BETTER job of giving each of us the opportunity to learn about ourselves, our partners and our firm, so that we can each do a BETTER job for our clients and for Jefferies.” Mr. Handler and Mr. Friedman write these notes every month. Recently they wrote a note that implored their employees not just to be better, but not to be jerks. “Waiting until the last minute to hand out work, creating unnecessary projects or deadlines, or just being insensitive makes you a jerk. We do not have or want jerks at Jefferies,” that note said. But back to the BETTER note. In what is definitely a new genre of Wall Street cheerleading, the two encouraged their employees to take better care of themselves. (Fewer all nighters and greasy dinners by the computer screen?) “Each of us is precious to others and should be handled with care,” they said. And it wouldn’t be 2014 if they didn’t mention that being better also means being ethical. “Please don’t cut a corner or even go near a corner. If you see or hear something that could bring risk or repercussions to any one of us or to all of us, please elevate it immediately. We are protecting ourselves and our families from real harm.” And, naturally, it was signed, “Looking forward to an ever BETTER Jefferies, Rich and Brian” Advertisement