Advertisement Supported by By Stephanie Strom Every week, some 14,000 households in Austin, Tex., dutifully roll not just one, or two, but three garbage bins to the curb. One bin is for recyclable materials and one for trash. The third bin is filled with food scraps that will be taken away and turned into compost, part of the city’s goal to eliminate 90 percent of the waste it sends to landfills by 2040. Residents also are encouraged to take a free home composting class in their neighborhoods or online, which earns them a $75 rebate on the purchase of a home composting system, and a similar program is in the works for small businesses. “What has been missing from recycling is the organic part of the waste stream, which is significant,” said Bob Gedert, director of resource recovery for the city. “We were collecting yard trimmings from residents, but not food waste.” The compost is used as fertilizer. Mr. Gedert hopes to extend the pilot food collection program to all 186,000 of the city’s households. Austin already makes money from the sale of Dillo Dirt, a soil amendment made from the yard clippings the city has been collecting for some time. “Waste can be a revenue source,” he said. The city brought in $267,000 from the sale of 21,000 cubic yards of Dillo Dirt in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, according to its water utility, which runs the sales program. Food waste has become a hot-button issue, and restaurants, grocery chains, food processing companies, municipalities and the federal government are adopting strategies for reducing it. Recently, New York City announced that it would expand collection of “organic waste” to 70,000 households and turn it into compost or biofuel that it hopes to sell. Bon Appétit, the restaurant and food services company, has created a new position, waste specialist, to help cut down its food waste. “Food has gotten so cheap that it is more cost-effective to throw it away,” said Maisie Ganzler, vice president for strategy at Bon Appétit. “But there are social and environmental costs to doing that, which we don’t always think about.” Americans threw away more than 36 million tons of food in 2012, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. That is about $165 billion worth of food annually, the Natural Resources Defense Council estimated in a report that year. Even 15 percent of the food being discarded would be enough to feed 25 million people at a time when one in every six Americans does not always have enough to eat, the group said. Most food waste in developed countries like the United States occurs at the consumption, rather than the production, stage, according to a new report from the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, which put the amount of edible food waste globally at 1.3 trillion tons. “This piqued my interest because I see it as a multifaceted issue that has an impact on family food budgets, an impact on hunger in America, an impact on our natural resources and climate change,” said Tom Vilsack, the secretary of agriculture. Mr. Vilsack works out at a gym in the south building housing the Agriculture Department in Washington, and his walk to his office from there takes him past a garbage container solely dedicated to collecting coffee grounds destined to become compost. His department, together with the E.P.A. and business groups, last year began the Food Waste Challenge to find ways to reduce the amount of food going into landfills. The Agriculture Department, for instance, is working to change regulations on the handling of mislabeled meat, which currently must be recalled and thrown away even if it poses no food safety issue. New rules would allow it to be relabeled properly and distributed to food banks. “I’ve become very sensitized to this because my wife is a relatively small person and I’m a relatively big guy,” Mr. Vilsack said. “She gets the same portion size as I do when we go to a restaurant, and sometimes we take it home but often we don’t because it’s really not the kind of food you can take home.” Bon Appétit started working to reduce food waste in 2005 and within four years had cut enough to equal a reduction of ton in greenhouse gases. The reduction came through changes in portion size and preparation. Instead of discarding carrot peels, for example, the company’s chefs might use them to make stock. Or they might be challenged to come up with ideas for using all of a pig instead of just its choicest cuts. The company also started daily waste monitoring at its restaurants and a program that allowed diners to weigh the amount of food left on their plates at the dish return station. It has also worked with its food service accounts and local governments to create programs to reduce food waste. At the Seattle Art Museum, for instance, grab-and-go sandwiches are labeled to tell diners which leftovers can go in the compost bin. A spiced, stewed tomato and chickpea salad that was unused during a recent museum open house was donated to Food Lifeline, a nonprofit working to feed the hungry. Since November, Taste, the museum’s restaurant and catering service, has donated roughly 600 pounds of food that otherwise would have gone to waste. “Often when we have events, we have a lot of food that never even goes out to the buffet that is perfectly good,” said Kristin White, the general manager. The Food Recovery Network, with chapters at almost 50 colleges, picks up leftovers from university dining halls to distribute to food banks and soup kitchens. “The biggest challenge is this perception that it’s either unsafe to donate surplus food or that they might be held liable for someone getting sick or that it would just be this extra cost,” said Ben Simon, the organization’s founder and executive director. Not surprisingly, colleges and universities are a hotbed of food recovery and recycling. Dickinson College, in Carlisle, Pa., has had programs to tackle the issue since 2002, when Jenn Halpin, manager of the school’s farm, began working to persuade dining halls to hand over their salad waste for composting. From there, Ms. Halpin moved on to breakfast waste and educating students about the issue. In 2007, Dickinson’s farm won a $97,000 state grant used to buy equipment like a food pulper, for shredding and drying food waste, and a truck and tractor for hauling and managing the mounting compost pile. “Today, about 800 pounds of food are going to the farm to be composted, which is about one small Dumpster each day,” said Neil Leary, director of Dickinson’s Center for Sustainability Education. “That represents about a 50 percent reduction in waste going out the back door of dining services each day.” The program also saves the school about $750,000 a year in transport and landfill fees, Mr. Leary said. Cost savings like that have piqued the interest of food industry trade groups, which in 2011 established the Food Waste Reduction Alliance to educate restaurants, food manufacturers and grocery stores. “The starting point was, as we all know and read, we have six billion people in the world today and that number is going to rise to nine billion,” said Louis A. Finkel, executive vice president for government affairs at the Grocery Manufacturers Association, which along with the Food Marketing Institute and the National Restaurant Association, created the alliance. “Feeding nine billion people is going to be hard enough, and wasting food in the process makes it unreasonably challenging.” He noted that food manufacturers already diverted roughly 95 percent of their food waste, about three-quarters of which goes into animal feed. ( Mr. Finkel has announced that he is leaving the grocery association for the American Petroleum Institute.) Now businesses are springing up to profit from all of these efforts. This month, the WISErg Corporation, the brainchild of veteran Microsoft engineers, installed a bulky stainless steel cube outside the Whole Foods in Bellevue, Wash. Called the Harvester, the machine converts the store’s food waste into a fertilizer that WISErg sells to local farmers and gardeners. Whole Foods will pay a service charge each month that is cheaper than hauling its food waste to a dump, and WISErg shares data on the food that ends up in the Harvester that helps the store manage its inventory better. “We’ve focused on groceries and food services businesses,” said Larry LeSueur, one of WISErg’s founders, “but there’s no reason we can’t find applications that will work more broadly, say, in commercial kitchens including restaurants and even an appliance type of thing that could work in a home kitchen.” Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS