Advertisement By BEN SISARIOMAY 23, 2014
 YouTube’s plans for a subscription music service have stalled over a dispute with independent record labels, which contend that the online video giant has offered unfair licensing terms and threatened to block their music from the site. In a strongly worded statement, members of the Worldwide Independent Network, an umbrella for various trade groups around the world, complained on Thursday that the contracts YouTube had offered independents are “out of step with the marketplace for streaming,” and less favorable than those that have apparently been agreed to by the three major labels — Universal, Sony and Warner. Negotiations between independents and YouTube, which is owned by Google, have dragged on for months. But according to several people with direct knowledge of the talks, the indies’ decision to speak out was driven by a recent warning that if labels failed to agree to YouTube’s licensing terms, music on the indies’ official YouTube channels would be blocked. In addition, those labels would be unable to collect advertising revenue from user-uploaded videos that included their music. In response, a YouTube spokesman said, “We have successful deals in place with hundreds of independent and major labels around the world; however, we don’t comment on ongoing negotiations.” Advertisement Labels and artists have also frequently complained that YouTube’s per-stream royalty rates were far lower than those paid by other kinds of streaming services, like Spotify and Beats Music.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “This is not a fair way to do business,” Alison Wenham, the chief executive of Worldwide Independent Network, said in the statement. “WIN questions any actions by any organization that would seek to injure and punish innocent labels and musicians — and their innocent fans — in order to pursue its ambitions.” Advertisement The letter was signed by representatives of independent trade groups from 18 countries, including the United States, Britain, Germany, Australia and Brazil. YouTube has been planning a subscription service for at least a year — a move that has caused some head-scratching in the media world since Google already has another subscription service, Play Music All Access. According to music executives, separate teams from YouTube and Google have led licensing negotiations for these two services. While talks with the indies have been a stumbling block for YouTube, it was not clear if that was the only reason for the delay of the service. People briefed on YouTube’s plans said the new service involved an extensive overhaul of the site in preparation for the subscription rollout. A version of this article appears in print on May 26, 2014, on Page B6 of the New York edition with the headline: Independent Record Labels Waging a Battle With YouTube.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »