Updated, 4:41 p.m. |  In 2010, the Greek debt crisis and other market tremors forced Travelport Worldwide, a travel services company, to put off an initial public offering. But on Thursday, investors gave Travelport a warm reception as it made its debut on the New York Stock Exchange. Shares of Travelport opened at $17.69 each on Thursday morning, 10.6 percent above the I.P.O. price of $16 a share that was set Wednesday evening at the top of an expected range. The stock gave up some gains during the day and closed at $16.40 a share, up 2.5 percent. The company had a market value of about $2 billion. Travelport, based in Langley, England, is a middleman that helps travel agencies and tour operators book flights, hotels and rental cars for customers. It also processes payments for travel agencies through a majority-owned subsidiary, eNett, which is the fastest-growing section of Travelport’s business. Travelport’s earlier attempt to go public dealt a setback to the Blackstone Group and Technology Crossover Ventures, which bought the company for $4.3 billion in 2006. But Travelport may be better off for having waited to make its debut, Gordon Wilson, the chief executive, said on Thursday. “In retrospect, it’s quite a good thing that we didn’t go public in 2010,” Mr. Wilson said. In the years since then, the company has done a number of transactions to reduce its substantial amount of debt. A significant restructuring, in which Blackstone went from being a controlling shareholder to having a minority stake, wrapped up last year. This year, several holders of the company’s debt chose to convert those holdings to equity. And this month, the company refinanced its debt so that none of its borrowing would come due until 2021. The proceeds from the I.P.O. — $480 million before fees and expenses — will also help the company reduce its debt. On an adjusted basis, taking the expected effects of the I.P.O. into account, Travelport estimated that its debt totaled $2.4 billion as of June 30. Mr. Wilson said the level of borrowing was “comfortable” and that it could be reduced further. He also pointed out that, unlike other companies taken public by private equity firms, Travelport is no longer majority-owned by its private equity backers. This, in theory, gives stock market investors a greater degree of control. “There isn’t quite the overhang that many traditionally private equity-owned companies have when they come to market,” Mr. Wilson said. A version of this article appears in print on 09/26/2014, on page B5 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Market Arrival. Advertisement