Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMAY 15, 2014
 TOKYO — Japan’s economy grew at an annual rate of 5.9 percent in the first quarter, the fastest rate in nearly three years, as companies and consumers spent to beat a sales tax increase that is expected to cause a contraction in the current quarter. The growth figures for Japan, released Thursday, were in line with expectations. Strong private consumption, residential investment and corporate spending were the biggest contributors to growth, while public spending fell slightly. Japan’s quarter-to-quarter growth in January through March, adjusted for inflation, was 1.5 percent, the fastest rate since the rebound from the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami. It was the sixth straight quarter of expansion. Since taking office in late 2012, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has sought to get Japan’s growth back on track with heavy government spending, low interest rates and economic overhauls. Advertisement Although the economy was already recovering when Mr. Abe took office, his economic policies have been credited with lifting corporate profits and helping Japan escape from a longtime deflationary rut. Sustaining growth will require major changes to increase competitiveness and unblock bottlenecks that inhibit growth, economists say. Advertisement Mr. Abe is due in June to present his latest explanation of overhaul plans. Haruhiko Kuroda, who as governor of the Bank of Japan is the most influential economic ally of Mr. Abe, describes the overhauls as the “final and most important element in addressing Japan’s challenges.” Labor policy changes, like increased participation of women in the work force and better use of foreign labor, are needed to help improve Japan’s lagging productivity and improve public finances, Mr. Kuroda told a conference on Thursday.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “This will be a golden opportunity to resolve the medium- to long-term challenges facing Japan’s economy,” Mr. Kuroda said. Mr. Kuroda reiterated his belief that the economy is moving toward sustained growth, with price increases moving toward the official target of 2 percent inflation. Wages have not kept pace with inflation, even with minor increases for the fraction of workers who are represented by unions during spring labor negotiations. But Mr. Kuroda said tightening employment conditions will lead to the improved incomes needed to support growth in the long run. Although the increase in the sales tax on April 1 to 8 percent from 5 percent is expected to cause a contraction, the latest data suggest growth may rebound relatively quickly. The recovery in the United States and Europe may help Japan increase exports, so far an area that has lagged expectations as soaring import costs for energy, food and industrial components have outpaced increases in demand for Japanese products overseas. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »