Advertisement Supported by Advertising By Andrew Adam Newman AS soda sales have decreased over the last decade while obesity concerns rose, one of the fastest-growing alternatives has been coconut water. The number of coconut water products introduced in the United States in 2013 increased 92 percent over the previous year, according to Innova Market Insights data cited in Beverage Industry, a trade journal. And the market research firm Euromonitor identified coconut water as one of the United States’ top five beverage trends of 2013. Now Zico is introducing what it says is its largest advertising campaign, and it features a new spokeswoman, the actress Jessica Alba. The campaign represents a shift in tone for Zico, which was introduced in 2004 as an alternative to sugary sports drinks, but will now be pitched as more of an anytime beverage, like bottled water. While Zico advertising has tended to feature exercise buffs in spandex, in the new ads Ms. Alba wears casual clothing like a white cotton sundress or a sleeveless white blouse with jeans and poses on grass against a blue sky. The campaign also introduces a new tagline: “Crack life open.” The Coca-Cola Company first invested in Zico in 2009 and purchased the brand outright in 2013. The new campaign, by Butler, Shine, Stern & Partners of Sausalito, Calif., will be introduced in the June 2 issue of People magazine, which will hit newsstands on Friday. While the brand has typically advertised in fitness publications like Self and Men’s Health and will keep doing so, this is the first time it will advertise in People and other lifestyle publications, including Real Simple, Esquire and InStyle. The company declined to disclose the campaign’s cost, but said it would have a multimillion-dollar budget. The campaign also will include outdoor advertising like bus wraps and murals on buildings in New York and Los Angeles, and in Brooklyn, ads will dominate Williamsburg’s Bedford Avenue L train station. A revamped website will move away from images of athletes and instead feature shots of Ms. Alba with Zico coconut water. The advertising and the website will prominently feature an image of a halved green coconut, liquid swirling from its core, while on the website, affirmations reminiscent of those on the tags of some herbal tea bags will evoke coconuts. “Minds, hearts and coconuts are better open,” the new website and other marketing material will assert. Another aphorism will read, “The best stuff is beneath the shell.” Lorna Peters, the chief marketing officer for Zico, said that within the company there had been philosophical discussions about coconut water. “We asked, ‘What is this product? Is it a fruit juice? Is it a sports drink?’ ” said Ms. Peters. “We dug into that internally and asked where does this category source from and what are people looking for?” The conclusion they reached is that “it really behaves and acts a lot like water, and we’re really competing in that premium water space,” she said. “Marketing was around being a natural sports drink originally,” she continued, “but we realized that while sports marketing was helping us recruit and bringing consumers into the category, it wasn’t necessarily helping us pull apart from the other brands within the category.”  Zico’s founder, Mark Rampolla, first began selling the beverage in 2004 from a van outside yoga classes in New York; he promoted the naturally occurring electrolytes in coconut water as a healthful alternative to sports drinks. A 2013 campaign — the first for the brand by Butler, Shine — introduced the tagline “Natural oomph from coconuts.”  John Butler, the agency’s executive creative director, said that the campaign aimed to show the drink’s suitability beyond being a sports or energy drink, but that consumers may have inferred otherwise. “ ‘Oomph’ was never meant per se to be about energy, but instead about positive energy,” Mr. Butler said. “I think that consumers probably took it the wrong way and that the vernacular of ‘oomph’ means ‘to exert.’ ” Robyn Teplansky, a strategic insights director at Kantar Worldpanel, a part of WPP that surveys more than 40,000 Americans about their weekly beverage consumption, said that the way consumers viewed coconut water was evolving. “Coconut water started out in the fitness community, but it’s now much more about healthy hydration” on any occasion, Ms. Teplansky said. Both Ms. Teplansky and Kerry Corke, a vice president and head of United States operations at Kantar Worldpanel, agreed that the brand stood to benefit from Zico’s new approach. “If you’re looking at this product and what people are saying is driving consumption, what they’re doing now to change it is much more playing to their strengths,” said Ms. Corke, referring to the new Zico campaign. Sales of Zico beverages, which include a chocolate-flavored coconut water, reached $40.3 million in the year to April 20, a 30 percent increase over the previous year, according to IRI, a market data firm. Ms. Peters, the Zico marketer, said the “bull’s-eye” of its demographic is 30 years old, and while it advertises to both genders, it directs advertising somewhat more at women, who she said account for about 60 percent of coconut water drinkers. According to the Q Scores Company, which tracks the popularity of about 1,800 celebrities, Ms. Alba is recognized by 85 percent of American women ages 18 to 34, with 19 percent rating her as one of their favorite celebrities, meaning she has what the company calls a Q score of 19. Among men 35 to 49, Ms. Alba has a Q score of 25. Henry Schafer, executive vice president of Q Scores, said Ms. Alba had the most appeal among the consumer segments Zico seeks. “It sounds like they found the right spokesperson,” Mr. Schafer said.  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS