Updated, 8:02 p.m. |  News Corporation, the publishing company controlled by Rupert Murdoch, agreed on Tuesday to buy Move Inc., an operator of real estate listings websites, for $950 million in cash, as the newspaper publisher continues to branch out into new businesses. The transaction is the latest, and largest, by Mr. Murdoch’s publishing arm since it split from 21st Century Fox last year. Under the terms of the deal, News Corporation will pay $21 a share through a tender offer for Move’s stock. Facing steep declines in advertising and subscription revenue, News Corporation is trying to stretch beyond newspapers like The Wall Street Journal. News Corporation paid $415 million this year to take control of Harlequin Enterprises, the publisher of romance novels, to add to its HarperCollins publishing division. News Corporation also paid $25 million in 2013 for Storyful, a social and video news agency. “This acquisition will accelerate News Corp.’s digital and global expansion and contribute to the transformation of our company, making online real estate a powerful pillar of our portfolio,” Robert J. Thomson, News Corporation’s chief executive, said in a statement. “We intend to use our media platforms and compelling content to turbocharge traffic growth and create the most successful real estate website in the U.S.” When it separated from 21st Century Fox, which houses Mr. Murdoch’s lucrative television and film assets, News Corporation was given $2.6 billion and no debt. And it has deployed some of that cash as it seeks to tap into new revenue sources. Total revenue at the company declined 4 percent, to $8.57 billion in the year that ended June 30, compared with the previous year. Revenue in the news and information group, its largest business unit — which includes The Wall Street Journal and The Sun in Britain — dropped 9 percent, to $6.15 billion, compared with the period a year earlier. Long a pillar of the traditional newspaper industry, real estate print ads have eroded with the emergence of new digital outlets. Global ad spending on newspapers is expected to fall 2.9 percent in 2014, to $73.5 billion, the seventh consecutive year of declines, according to WPP’s GroupM. In contrast, spending on the online real estate market is steadily increasing. The Move deal is expected to jump-start News Corporation’s current real estate services business, which delivered $408 million in revenue to the company in the year that ended in June, up 18 percent from the previous year. Move will bring a slew of real estate listings, both properties for sale and for rent. Started in 1993 and based in San Jose, Calif., the company runs sites like Realtor.com and Move.com, and claims to reach about 35 million people each month. Last year, Move reported $600,000 in profit atop $227 million in revenue. Using earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, which excludes stock-based compensation, the company earned $29 million. Shares of Move rose $5.67, or 37 percent, to $20.96. News Corporation’s deal comes two months after Zillow, the giant online real estate listings service, agreed to buy a rival, Trulia, for $3.5 billion. Upon the closing of the deal, which is expected by the end of the year, News Corporation will own about 80 percent of Move, while an Australian affiliate, REA Group, will own 20 percent. Goldman Sachs and the law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom advised News Corporation, while Morgan Stanley and the law firm Cooley advised Move. A version of this article appears in print on 10/01/2014, on page B3 of the NewYork edition with the headline: News Corp. Buying Site for Property Listings. Advertisement