The Obama administration’s crackdown on inversions is already shaking up some multibillion-dollar deals.  On Friday, the medical device maker Medtronic said it was restructuring the financing for its $43 billion acquisition of Covidien, a deal that will allow the American company to reincorporate in Ireland and lower its tax bill.  The announcement was the most direct sign yet that new rules from the Treasury Department, announced last week, were having an impact on pending deal plans. It also suggested that the Treasury Department had found a way to hit inverting companies where it hurt.  Until Friday, Medtronic had planned to used overseas cash held by it and Covidien to help pay for the deal. That plan would have been tax efficient: Medtronic had intended to use so-called hopscotch loans to get around paying the Internal Revenue Service to repatriate billions in cash.  But the Treasury Department put an end to hopscotch loans for inverted companies last week, forcing Medtronic to rethink its financing for Covidien. Now, instead of using existing cash being held abroad, Medtronic will draw on $16 billion in external financing to complete the deal. The terms of the deal remain unchanged.  Medtronic’s chief executive, Omar Ishrak, reemphasized that the deal made sense even without all the tax benefits previously expected.  “This proposed acquisition was conceived and undertaken for strategic reasons and is intended to create a company that can treat more patients, in more ways and in more places around the world,” Mr. Ishrak said in a statement. “We believe our combination will be uniquely positioned to help advance the goals of the Affordable Care Act in the U.S. as well as the objectives of virtually all health systems — to drive access to high-quality, affordable health care for patients around the world. Since the announcement of this transaction, we have worked closely with our Covidien colleagues to plan for the integration of these two leading companies, and we look forward to closing the transaction and realizing these strategic benefits.”  Medtronic stock was up nearly 4 percent on Friday, as investors breathed a sigh of relief that the company had not taken a more drastic step, such as trying to renegotiate the price with Covidien or backing out of the deal.  “Despite the additional expense of the new financing, the strategic benefits of the transaction remain compelling,” the company said in a statement, adding that the deal was still expected to add to be financially lucrative.  Medtronic also stated that it still planned on striking an inversion, reincorporating in Ireland while running the business out of the United States.  “A new Irish holding company — Medtronic plc — will serve as the parent company of the new combined entity and will be listed on the NYSE,” the company said in a statement. “The company will maintain principal executive offices in Ireland and operational headquarters in Minnesota. Through this combination, Medtronic plc is expected to generate significant free cash flow, which it will be able to deploy with greater strategic flexibility, particularly in the U.S.” By DAVID GELLES The changes by the Treasury Department will not stop the deals but may make some more difficult to execute, corporate advisers said. Advertisement