9:13 p.m. | Updated  Barnes & Noble, the nation’s largest book chain, said on Thursday that it was considering spinning off its Nook e-reader division in an effort to help the nascent — and expensive — digital business grow. Separating the unit could potentially bring new investors into the Nook business to help shoulder its costs, but would also raise questions about Barnes & Noble’s ultimate ability to compete for readers. While the company has made quick work of capturing almost 30 percent of the e-book market in two years, the rise of digital reading has increased the pressure on Barnes & Noble to devise a winning long-term strategy against Amazon, which still dominates in e-book sales. The Nook has been a crucial component of that strategy. And while it has sold well and drawn praise from reviewers, Barnes & Noble has acknowledged that the Nook has not been profitable, leaving investors anxious about the future costs tied to it, with the need to develop new software and hardware and to advertise the products. By one analyst’s estimate, Barnes & Noble spends $200 million to $250 million annually on its Nook operations. “The Nook business has been a growth business for Barnes & Noble,” said Sarah Rotman Epps, a senior analyst with Forrester Research. “But there’s no doubt that continued growth and international expansion will take sustained investment that Barnes & Noble shareholders will not have the patience for.” Investors were unnerved Thursday when Barnes & Noble revised its earnings forecast downward for 2012, saying it expected losses of $1.10 to $1.40 a share. The company’s shares tumbled 17 percent in trading, closing at $11.24. Barnes & Noble’s stock has fallen 30 percent in the last 12 months. The company attributed the revision primarily to lower-than-expected sales of its black-and-white Nook devices, acknowledging that it had ordered too many of them. Still, the company forecasts a bright future for the Nook, and it has absorbed many quarterly losses while investing heavily in the Nook. Barnes & Noble said it was considering reporting Nook-related sales as a separate business segment, and added that it was in talks with potential partners to expand the Nook’s presence overseas, a vastly untapped opportunity for book publishers and retailers. “We see substantial value in what we’ve built with our Nook business in only two years, and we believe it’s the right time to investigate our options to unlock that value,” William J. Lynch Jr., Barnes & Noble’s chief executive, said in a statement. Sales of Nook devices for the nine-week holiday period ending Dec. 31 were up 70 percent over the same period a year earlier, Barnes & Noble said Thursday, while all Nook-related sales, including devices, accessories and digital content, were up 43 percent. Sales at its brick and mortar stores rose just 2.5 percent. In an interview on Thursday, Mr. Lynch said that he believed that the Nook business was undervalued by the current investor base. “Increasingly there’s been a drumbeat from investors in the market to look at options relating to it,” Mr. Lynch said, adding that there was also “increased appetite” from the company’s board to explore ways to increase the Nook unit’s value. There is no timeline for the move and Mr. Lynch said he did not want to speculate on its outcome. One possibility is that Barnes & Noble could sell part of the Nook business to the public and maintain a majority ownership stake. Mr. Lynch did not rule out the option of selling the Nook business entirely. But any move to create a separate Nook business would be complicated. For the last two years, Barnes & Noble has wrapped its physical stores and its digital business together in a way that would make them difficult to separate. Barnes & Noble bookstores prominently feature what the company calls “Nook boutiques” — sleek areas that call to mind Apple stores, with tables to display the Nook devices. And customers are encouraged to use the bookstores as showrooms, browsing for titles and then downloading them on their e-readers. The Nook business is something that Mr. Lynch “would be hesitant to give up,” said Peter Wahlstrom, a senior analyst with Morningstar Equity Research. “It is so ingrained with the physical bookselling experience.” Ms. Epps, the Forrester analyst, said that by separating the businesses, Barnes & Noble might forfeit long-term relationships it had built with publishers. “Will those publishers have as easy a working relationship with a separate Nook business?” she asked. But publishing executives, reacting with cautious optimism, said the move could give Barnes & Noble more flexibility to manage the physical bookstore and digital sides of the business, both of which are changing rapidly. “I’m kind of excited to see where else they can take this business now,” said Evan Schnittman, the managing director for group sales and marketing for Bloomsbury. “The healthiest thing that can happen in the book business is that there are three or four device and e-book platform players out there. Right now there is one dominant one, there is an up-and-coming one in Nook, there is Apple and Kobo has come a long way.” Mr. Lynch emphasized that the company planned to expand the Nook’s reach in international markets, a move to be announced in the coming months. Barnes & Noble has chipped away at Amazon’s market share for e-books in the last two years at a pace that has surprised publishers, who have been pleased by the entry of another major player in the e-book market. Barnes & Noble introduced its first Nook, a simple black-and-white e-reader priced at $259, in October 2009. In November, the company announced its latest color device, the Nook Tablet, for $249. The potential spinoff is the latest strategic plan that Barnes & Noble has explored in the last two years. The company previously shopped itself around, before deciding in August to sell a minority stake to Liberty Media for $204 million. Advertisement