Advertisement Supported by By Binyamin Appelbaum WASHINGTON — Senate Republicans on Thursday sharply questioned Janet L. Yellen, chairwoman of the Federal Reserve, about the persistence of unemployment and the slow pace of the economic recovery during a hearing that highlighted the growing prominence of election-year considerations on Capitol Hill. The hearing before the Senate Budget Committee flipped the standard script of congressional sessions in recent years with Ms. Yellen and her predecessor, Ben S. Bernanke. Generally, Democrats are the ones who fret about unemployment and the weak economy, while Republicans question whether the Fed will lose control of inflation or destabilize financial markets. With the midterm elections approaching, however, Democrats are increasingly eager to claim credit for the progress of the economic recovery, while Republicans are emphasizing that the recovery remains weak and incomplete. Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, the ranking Republican on the committee, was particularly critical of the Fed’s performance, sharply questioning Ms. Yellen’s statement that the labor market was showing signs of progress. “We’ve got fewer people working today than there were in 2007 and the population has increased by 15 million,” he said. “So how is this progress? Please tell me.” When Ms. Yellen responded that things were getting better, but were still not good, Mr. Sessions suggested the Fed should not overstate the improvement. “From the point of view of working Americans, this is the slowest, most anemic recovery that we’ve seen, ever,” he said. “Whatever we’re doing, we need to get better at it.” Senator Roger Wicker, a Mississippi Republican, asked Ms. Yellen what it would take for the Fed to extend its bond-buying campaign. The Fed is gradually reducing the volume of its monthly purchases of Treasury and mortgage-backed securities, now $45 billion, with the goal of ending the purchases sometime this fall. “Whenever we meet,” Ms. Yellen responded, “we ask ourselves the question, ‘Do we continue to believe that the economy is on a path that will take us toward our objective of reaching full employment or maximum employment?’ ” Other Republicans said that they doubted the Fed’s ability to help. “I worry that the Federal Reserve is trying to use its monetary policy hammer to solve a problem that’s really not a monetary problem and at some risk of doing so,” said Senator Rob Portman of Ohio. Companies, he said, would not invest “no matter how low interest rates go” because they were frozen by uncertainty about the economic outlook.  Mr. Portman suggested the Fed could help by ending its stimulus campaign because it had become a crucial source of the uncertainty. Ms. Yellen did not stray from her script in answering the attacks. “Monetary policy is not a panacea,” she said, invoking a favorite line. But “I think maintaining a policy of low interest rates has been helpful in a number of ways.” Democrats were more supportive. Senator Patty Murray of Washington, the committee chairwoman, opened the hearing by thanking Ms. Yellen and the Fed. “Our economy is much stronger than it was five years ago when the Great Recession hit,” she said. “More workers are getting back on the job, and the unemployment rate has declined to 6.3 percent — the lowest level since September 2008.” Ms. Yellen also faced a significant number of questions about fiscal policy, and she echoed Mr. Bernanke in chiding Congress for its failure to address the federal government’s long-term fiscal challenges. “We can see that going out 20, 30, 50 years without some further shifts in fiscal policy, it’s projected that the ratio of debt to G.D.P. will rise to unsustainable levels,” Ms. Yellen told the committee, referring to the country’s gross domestic product. “I would join my predecessor in saying that I do think it’s important that Congress address that issue.” Ms. Yellen also commented on proposals to raise the minimum wage. She said such a change would benefit workers whose pay increased, but was also “likely to have some negative effect on jobs,” an assessment that is shared by many economists. “It’s a question mark exactly how large that impact is,” she said. In response to questions, Ms. Yellen said that she was in favor of adding someone with community banking experience to the Fed’s board. She said she had shared her view with the White House, which is considering several such candidates for a pair of openings on the seven-member board.  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS