Generating revenue along with the buzz. I’m one of the many people in the United States who have had their individual health insurance policy canceled since the full implementation of the Affordable Care Act began Oct. 1. I own the Quintessence Group, a marketing consulting company based in Philadelphia. I have seven employees, but I’ve dodged the staff health insurance bullet for years because all of my employees have either had insurance through their spouses or have worked as independent contractors. I offered a group health insurance plan through the company until 2007, when I reorganized. I finally decided to offer health insurance again in the summer of 2012 — after my divorce became final and I had to get an individual policy. The process was not easy, even though I was 39 and in good health. I applied to Aetna, where I had been covered on my ex-husband’s policy, but was denied. The company pulled the results of a blood test during the underwriting process and decided a blood cholesterol score of 213 disqualified me. (The Mayo Clinic says that a score below 200 is desirable.) What they didn’t know is that I was on a medication before the test that has a side effect of elevating cholesterol. So this forced me to apply for the only other health insurance option in my market, Independence Blue Cross, which was happy to sell me a premium individual PPO policy for $447 a month. Four months later, after my 40th birthday, my premium was raised to $618 a month, which I thought was pretty expensive. With this insurance policy, I had $50 co-pays for regular doctor visits and experienced quite a bit of gap billing for lab work and minor in-office procedures. And, by the way, the policy did not include either dental or vision coverage. And then, in October, I got a letter informing me that my policy would be discontinued effective Jan. 1. Now I am panicked and irritated — but also hopeful that I can get a reasonably priced policy, through the Affordable Care Act, that won’t discriminate against my slightly elevated cholesterol, my race, my gender or any other preexisting condition. I have not yet decided if my health insurance options would be better served offering group health insurance again or just getting another individual policy. As my research progresses, I will chronicle my journey to get a new policy. My first stop is HealthCare.gov. I’m also going to reach out to a health insurance broker for advice. I may find that it’s more beneficial to make one of my contractors an employee and get a group plan instead. You must have at least two employees to apply for health insurance to qualify for a group plan. Has the Affordable Care Act had an impact on your business? Melinda F. Emerson is founder and chief executive of Quintessence Multimedia, a social media strategy and content development company. You can follow her on Twitter. You're the Boss offers an insider's perspective on small-business ownership. It gives business owners a place where they can compare notes, ask questions, get advice, and learn from one another's mistakes. The blog also offers analysis of policy issues, and suggests investing tips.
 The final You're the Boss post was published on Dec. 23. Advertisement