LONDON – Dominique Strauss-Kahn, formerly head of the International Monetary Fund whose career was damaged by a series of sexual scandals, is transforming himself into an investment banker. Mr. Strauss-Kahn joined Anatevka, an investment banking boutique based in Luxembourg, as chairman, the company’s founder, Thierry Leyne, said on Thursday. Anatevka will soon be renamed LSK, or Leyne, Strauss-Kahn and Partners, and offer investment banking advice and services, Mr. Leyne said. “There is a lot of demand from big groups to benefit from the advice of Mr. Strauss-Kahn,” Mr. Leyne said by phone. The two men started to work together on some client issues a few months ago and then agreed to join offices, Mr. Leyne said. Mr. Strauss-Kahn’s new role was reported earlier in The Financial Times. At LSK, Mr. Strauss-Kahn is expected to continue his work as an economic adviser to the Serbian government, which was announced earlier this month. As part of that role, Mr. Strauss-Kahn is helping Serbia restructure its foreign debt, attract foreign investment and manage relations with the I.M.F. Mr. Strauss-Kahn, a onetime presidential contender in France, will be working from the LSK offices in Luxembourg and Geneva. Apart from Serbia, LSK will also be working with clients in Morocco, South Sudan and Russia, Mr. Leyne said. Mr. Strauss-Kahn also joined the board of a banking subsidiary of Rosneft, the Russian state oil company, this year. Mr. Strauss-Kahn is seeking a new career after resigning as head of the I.M.F. in 2011 after accusations that he sexually assaulted a housekeeper in a New York hotel. The charges were later dropped, but Mr. Strauss-Kahn continues to face charges of being involved in a prostitution ring in France. Lawyers for Mr. Strauss-Kahn have denied any wrongdoing by their client, arguing that he was present at certain gatherings but did not know that the women there were being paid. A version of this article appears in print on 09/27/2013, on page B9 of the NewYork edition with the headline: New Career. Advertisement