
Updated, 7:55 p.m. | The French conglomerate Vivendi is saying goodbye to the telecom sector. The company, whose holdings include the Universal Music Group and the French pay-television operator Canal Plus, said on Thursday that it was in exclusive talks to sell its Brazilian telecommunications unit to the Spanish carrier Telefónica for about $9.8 billion. The announcement is the latest effort by Vivendi to shed its telecom assets as it focuses on traditional media offerings like music and television entertainment, as well as to reduce its overall debt. Over the last year, Vivendi has struck deals to sell telecom assets that, including the proposed sale to Telefónica, are worth almost $35 billion. That includes the proposed sale of its French telecom unit, SFR, to the local cable operator Numericable for around $19 billion, and the divesting of its stake in Maroc Telecom for $5.7 billion. The French company has also reduced its stake in the video-game company Activision Blizzard as part of its strategic shift. “Vivendi has been undergoing a significant transformation over the last two years,” Arnaud de Puyfontaine, the company’s chief executive, told investors on Thursday, adding that the company wanted to focus on its media assets. “There hasn’t been a summer break for Vivendi in the last couple of weeks.” The company’s proposed sale of Global Village Telecom, which operates a broadband network in Brazil, has pitted Telefónica against its European rival Telecom Italia. The Spanish carrier is also the largest shareholder of Telecom Italia through a separate holding company. Telefónica, which this month offered to buy the unit, wants to combine the business with its existing mobile and broadband services in Brazil, which operate under the Vivo brand. The revised bid came shortly after Telecom Italia, one of Telefónica’s main rivals in Brazil, offered to pay a combination of cash and shares that valued Global Village Telecom at about $9.2 billion. After the deal closes next year, Telefónica will have a stake of roughly 30 percent in Brazil’s broadband market, a market share similar to that of América Móvil, its main regional rival. Vivendi said the Telefónica offer “best meets” its strategic and financial goals. The French conglomerate said it would team up with Telefónica to offer its media services through the carrier’s mobile and broadband networks around the world. The rival bids signaled the desire of both companies to expand their broadband networks in Brazil to offset a gradual slowdown in growth in the country’s traditional mobile phone market. The two operators also continue to report sluggish growth in their home markets, and Brazil — despite concerns that its economy is slowing — offers an opportunity to bolster their overall revenues. Telefónica’s Brazilian operations, for example, are a main driver of its business in Latin America. The Brazilian unit posted revenue of 12.2 billion euros, about $16.1 billion, in 2013 and accounted for 42 percent of Telefónica’s revenue in the region last year. As of the end of June, Telefónica had about 95 million customer accounts in Brazil, primarily mobile clients. Telecom Italia’s Brazilian operations have about 73.4 million customers and annual revenue of about €7 billion, the company said. Telecom Italia, the former Italian monopoly, had hoped to combine Global Village Telecom with TIM Participações, also known as TIM Brasil, which it controls. Barring a change of heart by Vivendi or a breakdown in negotiations, Telecom Italia may have to look elsewhere to increase the size of its Brazilian business. The Brazilian provider Oi has separately signaled a willingness to pursue its own combination, saying on Wednesday that it had hired the investment bank BTG Pactual to explore the possibility of acquiring Telecom Italia’s controlling stake in TIM Participações. A deal for Global Village Telecom would be the latest in a wave of consolidation as European carriers rearrange their assets in the hope of attracting more customers by offering bundled packages of mobile, landline, broadband and television services. In July, European antitrust regulators gave the green light to Telefónica’s long-awaited acquisition of a German mobile operator, E-Plus. That deal, worth €8.6 billion, would combine the third- and fourth-largest cellphone providers in Germany and create a bigger rival to T-Mobile and Vodafone, which together control more than half of the German cellphone market. As part of its latest bid for Global Village Telecom, Telefónica would pay €4.66 billion in cash and give Vivendi a 12 percent stake in its Brazilian operations. About a third of those shares could be exchanged at Vivendi’s discretion for 5.7 percent of the share capital and 8.3 percent of the voting rights of Telecom Italia. Telefónica, based in Madrid, recently announced plans to sell convertible bonds, worth about €750 million, in Telecom Italia, to reduce its stake in the Italian company and to appease Brazilian competition regulators. A version of this article appears in print on 08/29/2014, on page B3 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Vivendi Unit in Brazil Has a Spanish Buyer. Advertisement