Bank of America shook up its top management team on Tuesday, as the beleaguered financial firm contended with a flagging share price and mounting legal liabilities. As part of the reshuffling, the bank announced the departure of two senior executives, Sallie L. Krawcheck, one of the top women on Wall Street, and Joe Price, a Bank of America veteran.  David Darnell and Tom Montag were named co-chief operating officers, in newly created positions that will report directly to the company’s chief executive, Brian T. Moynihan. Mr. Montag will oversee the banking and markets activities, including Bank of America Merrill Lynch, which he headed previously. Mr. Darnell, currently head of global commercial banking, will run all of the consumer businesses, including wealth management and home loans. The reorganization — which essentially splits the sprawling empire into two main units, one focused on consumers, the other on businesses and institutions — comes as Bank of America faces an erosion of investor confidence. Amid growing losses linked to the mortgage crisis and fears that its capital cushion was insufficient, the financial firm has been pummeled, the laggard stock in an already troubled industry. Bank of America got a brief respite from its market problems last month when the billionaire Warren E. Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway made a $5 billion investment. In the days that followed, the stock rose steadily. But the company’s legal problems continued to pile up, once again putting pressure on the stock. On Friday, federal regulators filed suit against Bank of America and 16 other firms, accusing them of misrepresenting the quality of mortgages that they sold to the housing giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Shares of Bank of America closed at $6.99 Tuesday, off about 50 percent since the start of the year. With Bank of America staggering under the weight of soured mortgages, most of which were acquired when it bought Countrywide in 2008, there has been speculation that a broader reorganization of the company could be in the offing. Options might include spinning off its highly profitable Merrill Lynch unit and putting Countrywide into bankruptcy, but bank officials say both possibilities are highly unlikely. The company, in an effort to reduce costs and increase profits, is set to review proposals for Project New BAC, an internal initiative aimed at making the company more nimble. It is expected to cut 10 percent of the overall work force over the next few years, according to a person with knowledge of the matter. The cost savings associated with the departures of Ms. Krawcheck, the president of global wealth and investment management, and Mr. Price, the president of consumer and small business banking, are potentially substantial. Ms. Krawcheck made $6.2 million in 2010, and $1.9 million in 2009, the year she was hired. Their teams also include large support staffs. The shake-up is the second time this year that Mr. Moynihan has changed his management team. He named a new chief financial officer, Bruce Thompson, to succeed Charles Noski, who left the role to tend to “a serious illness of a close family member.” (He remains on as vice chairman.) Gary Lynch of Morgan Stanley was selected to become the global chief of legal, compliance and regulatory relations, a new position. Ms. Krawcheck has been a well-known figure on Wall Street for decades and among the small cadre of top women executives in finance. After college at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, she moved to New York, landing a job as an investment banker at Salomon Brothers and switching after a few years to Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. Later at Sanford C. Bernstein, Ms. Krawcheck distinguished herself as a stock analyst, covering securities companies. Early on, she made headlines with some of her bold calls, notably upsetting Wall Street executive Sanford I. Weill when she criticized the acquisition of Salomon by his firm the Travelers Group. Shortly after Alliance Capital Management purchased Bernstein in 2000, she was named chairman and chief executive. Amid scandals over Wall Street research, she became head of research and brokerage at Citigroup in 2002, a move to restore credibility in the division. She eventually rose through the ranks, becoming chief financial officer at Citigroup and then head of its wealth management division. But she left the bank in September 2008 after clashing with top executives over whether to reimburse clients who lost money on Citigroup hedge funds. Ms. Krawcheck was hired in August 2009 by Kenneth D. Lewis, then the company’s controversial chairman and chief. Since her arrival, the wealth management group has posted steady results, even as the broader market has been battered by billions of dollars in losses. In the second quarter, the division earned $506 million, down slightly from the previous period, but up from $329 million in the second quarter of 2010. In particular, the Merrill Lynch brokerage force has been a surprising bright spot for the troubled bank, increasing its client base since the 2009 takeover by Bank of America. In a report earlier this year Michael Mayo, an analyst at Crédit Agricole Securities, said he expected the growth to continue. Despite the group’s steady performance, Ms. Krawcheck was not considered a member of Mr. Moynihan’s inner circle, according a senior executive at the bank. But her departure, said another bank executive close to Ms. Krawcheck, was not acrimonious like it was with Citigroup. “She has been through this before and gets it,” the person said, who was not authorized to speak on the record. Ms. Krawcheck did not respond to requests for comment. Under the terms of her employment agreement, Ms. Krawcheck could collect $2.4 million to $4.7 million in previously awarded stock grants, as of the end of December, according to an analysis of a regulatory filing by The New York Times and Footnoted.com, a division of Morningstar. She may also negotiate a separate severance package. Mr. Price’s departure closes the book on a long career at Bank of America, which he joined in 1992 from PriceWaterhouse. He is no stranger to shake-ups at the bank, serving as auditor general, risk manager and chief financial officer. His most recent move came in early 2010, when Mr. Moynihan assigned him to oversee the consumer bank. Under Mr. Price’s leadership, the division has had mixed results. The credit card portfolio has bounced back from the depths of the crisis, more than doubling its net income in the first half of 2011. But the bank’s deposit business has gradually reported lower returns over the last year. Mr. Moynihan in a statement praised the efforts of Ms. Krawcheck and Mr. Price at Bank of America, saying “delayering and simplifying at the scale in which we operate requires difficult decisions. We wish them well and look forward to their continued leadership and business successes in the future.” Ben Protess contributed reporting. 
Video

Bank of America Restructuring


Weighing in on the cuts being made by the bank, with Richard Bove, Rochdale Securities vice president of equity research, and Richard Parsons, Citigroup chairman.

Publish Date September 7, 2011.
                            

                                    Photo by Andrew Gombert/European Pressphoto Agency.
                                







embed










 Weighing in on the cuts being made by the bank, with Richard Bove, Rochdale Securities vice president of equity research, and Richard Parsons, Citigroup chairman. Advertisement