Several weeks ago, William O’Brien, the chief executive of the trading platform Direct Edge, and several of his senior managers flew discreetly to Kansas City, Mo. Waiting for them at the Charles B. Wheeler Downtown Airport there were Joe Ratterman, head of the rival BATS Global Markets, and his team. After working for months under cover of secrecy — Mr. O’Brien’s company was code-named “Delta,” while Mr. Ratterman’s was “Blue” — the two sides negotiated many of the finer points of a merger. The talks moved so quickly that their meeting finished an hour ahead of schedule.  The fruits of their efforts were on display Monday, as BATS and Direct Edge announced their plans to combine under the BATS name in an all-stock deal. The goal: to displace the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq atop the world of stock markets. Combining the two will vault the new company past Nasdaq to become the second-largest exchange operator in the United States.  “It pretty much guarantees you’re going to have a significant force to be reckoned with in the global exchange place for decades to come,” Mr. O’Brien said by phone. The deal, the terms of which were not disclosed, is the latest in the world of market operators, as companies seek more efficiencies and broader global reach by combining. Last year, the IntercontinentalExchange agreed to buy the N.Y.S.E.’s parent, NYSE Euronext, for $8.2 billion. Also last year, the parent of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange paid more than $2 billion to buy the 136-year-old London Metal Exchange. The pressure to join forces is a result of the challenges and changing environment facing exchanges. Technological advances and regulations have encouraged competition between markets, driving down the profitability of the Big Board and Nasdaq. The end of the merger process happened to coincide with bad news for other rivals. On Thursday, Nasdaq halted trading of all its listed stocks because of technical problems. Separately, Eurex, a derivatives exchange operated by Deutsche Börse, had a computer glitch on Monday that halted its trading. The breakdowns again raised questions about the health of modern stock markets, which are highly dependent on computers to carry out buy and sell orders. Both Mr. Ratterman and Mr. O’Brien said in interviews that they had long believed in more consolidation in their industry to harness greater scale and better compete against their older rivals. BATS and Direct Edge were both formed to take advantage of changes in the world of stock trading. BATS was founded in 2005 by a programmer at a high-speed trading firm looking to offer lower prices than those of the Big Board and Nasdaq. Direct Edge’s predecessor was created in 1998, but the company rose to prominence after being sold in 2005 to the big trading firm Knight Capital, which later sold large stakes to Wall Street firms like Goldman Sachs in 2007. Both companies are profitable on a stand-alone basis, their chief executives said. Last year, BATS reported $101 million in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and its Ebitda margin was 65 percent. Direct Edge, which like BATS is a private company, has not released its earnings. “Our competitors have lost the ability to be as efficient as we are,” Mr. Ratterman said. Over the last month, exchanges run by NYSE Euronext hosted about 22.5 percent of all stock trading, while Nasdaq’s markets serviced 17.5 percent. BATS and Direct Edge together had 20.5 percent, according to figures from the data arm of BATS, which the rest of the industry also uses. The combined company will keep all four of its parents’ exchanges, which offer slightly different prices and trading systems aimed at different types of customers. Mr. Ratterman will remain chief executive, and the company will stay based in BATS’s home in the suburbs of Kansas City, Kan. Mr. O’Brien will become president, and Bryan Harkins, Direct Edge’s chief operating officer, will take an unspecified senior position. The combined company’s primary shareholders will include some of Wall Street’s biggest trading firms, including Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and the hedge fund Citadel, as well as the private equity firms Spectrum Equity and TA Associates. BATS had tried to go public last year before withdrawing its stock sale amid technical problems. The new company is expected to remain privately held by its members for some time, Mr. O’Brien said. “You never say never on those things, but right now, an I.P.O. is not on the horizon,” he said. The merger will also help shore up the two exchanges against the steady disappearance of trading volume as investors seek alternatives. Other markets have sought to combat the problem by looking for trading opportunities in assets like bonds and derivatives, or moving into new markets around the world. BATS already runs the largest Pan-European stock exchange, and Direct Edge has been making plans to expand to Brazil. The leaders of both firms said that they would be looking for chances to expand into bond and currency trading, and to build stock exchanges in places like Japan and Canada. The men also said they saw opportunities to take existing business from Nasdaq and the N.Y.S.E. The older companies make a lot of money selling data to customers, which is possible because of the amount of trading they host. The combined trading volume of BATS and Direct Edge should allow them to come up with their own data offering. Mr. O’Brien said that the new company could also move toward opening a business of listing stocks, something that only the Nasdaq and the N.Y.S.E. do. Because the shareholders in the new company will be the large banks and trading firms that are responsible for a large portion of all stock trading, the new exchange may be a more attractive place for them to send their orders. “When you have that number of firms around the table, it creates the potential for this combined company to be a part of a lot of change in any part of the market,” Mr. O’Brien said. Getting to the deal took time. Though Mr. Ratterman and Mr. O’Brien have spoken regularly over the last three years, it was not until April that the two began seriously discussing a deal. Over a meal in May at Acappella, an Italian restaurant in Manhattan, the two men agreed on many of the important points of any merger. Several months of negotiations ensued, with BATS receiving advice from Broadhaven Capital Partners and Direct Edge working with Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Evercore Partners. The boards and shareholders of the two companies approved the deal on Friday as planned. Both Mr. Ratterman and Mr. O’Brien say more work needs to be done until the deal’s close, which is expected in the first half of next year. “We haven’t opened any Champagne bottles yet,” Mr. Ratterman said. A version of this article appears in print on 08/27/2013, on page B1 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Two Exchanges to Merge, Taking On Larger Rivals. Advertisement