Advertisement Supported by By Jenny Anderson LONDON — The Bank of England on Wednesday left unchanged its forecasts for growth and inflation in Britain, and indicated that the central bank was getting closer to the point at which it would need to gradually start raising interest rates. Analysts expect the bank to raise its record-low lending rate of 0.5 percent in the first half of next year. In its quarterly Inflation Report, the central bank said it expected the British economy to grow 3.4 percent in 2014, the same rate it had forecast in February. For 2015, the bank slightly increased its estimate, to 2.9 percent from 2.7 percent. Earlier in the day, the Office for National Statistics reported that Britain’s unemployment rate fell to 6.8 percent in the first quarter, the lowest level in more than five years. The central bank said it expected inflation to fall to 1.8 percent by the end of the year, down slightly from its February prediction. Inflation would remain at similar levels for 2015 and 2016, it added. The Bank of England’s governor, Mark J. Carney, employed a cautious tone during a news conference on Wednesday. “Amid the excitement that output is close to regaining its precrisis level,” he said, “we should not forget that the economy has only just begun to head back toward normal.” The stronger-than-expected employment data has raised questions about how long the British central bank can refrain from raising interest rates from historically low levels. “As time has moved on and the recovery has been sustained, the economy has edged closer to the point at which the bank rate will need gradually to rise,” Mr. Carney said. But now is not the time, he said, partly because of the margin of spare capacity, or the gap between the amount of goods and services the economy is capable of generating and what it is actually producing. That gap, he said, is between 1 percent and 1.5 percent of gross domestic product. When rates do rise, he said, the trajectory will not be drastic. “Bank rates may stay at historically low levels for some time,” Mr. Carney said. Some analysts questioned the central bank’s reluctance to raise rates or to shift toward a more aggressive approach. “Over all, it’s hard to get away from the impression that the M.P.C. is increasingly taking risks on the economy that probably aren’t worth taking,” said David Tinsley, an economist for BNP Paribas based in London, referring to the central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee, which sets lending rates. The number of employed people in Britain rose to 30.43 million in the first quarter, propelled by people who were registered as self-employed. The increase of 283,000 in the number of people finding work was the largest quarterly increase since records began in 1971. “The proportion of people working part-time because they can’t find a full-time job (one of Governor Carney’s favored indicators) is now falling, but remains relatively high,” Mr. Tinsley of BNP wrote in a note to clients. Pay growth was unchanged at 1.7 percent in the three months through March. Excluding bonuses, pay rose 1.3 percent in the first quarter, below forecasts. “This is a strong set of labor market data overall, indicating that unemployment is coming down markedly still as a consequence of the economy’s markedly improved performance in recent months and much healthier business confidence,” said Howard Archer, chief Britain and European economist at IHS Global Insight. During the news conference, Mr. Carney was asked repeatedly whether he saw a housing bubble developing in Britain. He said that while the Monetary Policy Committee monitors housing data, interest rates were not the right tool to address any such imbalances. He used a soccer analogy to sum up his view. “Securing the recovery is like making it through the qualifying rounds of the World Cup,” he said, adding that the real tournament “is just beginning and its prize is a strong, sustained and balanced expansion.” That prompted some reporters to note that England’s team, more often than not, disappoints. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS