Updated, 7:39 p.m. | “Hey, brother, have you invested in Zhang Ziyi?” So begins a cartoon advertisement referring to Ms. Zhang, an actress, for the latest retail investment product from the Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba. On Wednesday, Alibaba used Sina Weibo, a microblogging service in China, to announce its most recent push into innovative finance: a form of crowdfunding for Chinese movies. Investors were offered an expected annual interest rate of 7 percent for putting up as little as 100 renminbi, or $16. The new investment product, called Yu Le Bao, or Entertainment Treasure, is marketed as a way for ordinary Chinese to play a minirole as a film producer. Alibaba said investors could suggest what films should be made and who should direct and star in them. Alibaba said an initial batch of four projects — three films and one social networking game — together were aiming for total financing of 73 million renminbi. They include a fourth installment in the “Tiny Times” series of films, as well as a screen adaptation of the popular 2004 novel “Wolf Totem.” Yu Le Bao is the latest example of how Alibaba’s novel online investment offerings are encroaching on the staid state-owned banking system. By offering returns of as much as 7 percent, about twice the maximum interest rate that traditional banks are permitted to pay on a benchmark savings deposit, Alibaba is steadily amassing a share of China’s trillions of dollars in household savings. Alibaba is also moving forward with plans for an initial public offering of stock in the United States, which analysts have said could raise more than the $16 billion that Facebook achieved two years ago. In June, the company introduced a money market product called Yu’e Bao, which translates as Leftover Treasure. As of last month, 81 million people had signed up for the product, which had $40 billion in assets under management. That kind of success has led to greater scrutiny from China’s financial regulators. Reports in the state-run news media this month said the central bank, the People’s Bank of China, was considering limits on the payments handled by Internet companies like Alibaba and its biggest rival, Tencent, but officials have yet to carry out such restrictions. At the same time, Alibaba’s push into online finance has stoked a backlash from the state-dominated banking sector. On Tuesday, the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, the nation’s biggest bank, started restricting its business with Alibaba’s online payment unit to a single branch. In recent weeks, several of China’s big state banks have begun capping the amount of money their customers can transfer into Internet finance products like those marketed by Alibaba. By setting its sights on China’s movie industry, Alibaba is focusing on the world’s fastest-growing major cinema market. Box-office sales in China grew 27 percent last year, to $3.6 billion, a total second only to the United States’, according to figures released on Tuesday by the Motion Picture Association of America. But investments in Yu Le Bao would not go directly to financing movies. According to an email statement from Alibaba, “in the initial phase,” the money would be channeled into insurance and so-called wealth management products that were being offered by Guohua Life Insurance, which is based in Shanghai. They would later be invested in the cultural industry, the statement said. In another Weibo posting, Alibaba was careful to draw a distinction between the new investment product and traditional crowdfunding, where people who contribute money to a project usually receive goods or services in return. Depending on how it was structured, traditional crowdfunding would risk being seen by the Chinese authorities as illegal fund-raising, an offense that is not precisely defined but that has been used to condemn underground lending syndicates and pyramid schemes. “Crowdfunding projects can’t offer returns on equity or investment, and the people behind those projects can’t promise supporters any kind of profits,” Alibaba said in the posting. “This is innately different from Yu Le Bao’s platform, which offers anticipated capital gains on insurance and wealth management products.” A version of this article appears in print on 03/27/2014, on page B10 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Alibaba to Make Movies With Crowdfunding Idea. Advertisement