When Warren Woo, a deal maker at UBS, left the Swiss bank in 2007 to start his own firm, he named his family office Breakaway Capital. Years later, that choice of name has proved prescient. Since decamping from UBS, Mr. Woo — who subsequently jumped to two other firms — now finds himself defending accusations by his most recent employer, the lender Monroe Capital, that he stole confidential information to help start a competitor. It’s unusual that any company, let alone a risk-averse financial firm, would want to publicize firing an employee for cause. But Monroe Capital hasn’t been shy in letting the world know that it fired Mr. Woo for what its chief executive, Theodore L. Koenig, called “serious violations of company policies.” The firm’s lawsuit against its onetime employee tells a tale of deceit in which the banker forwarded over 300 messages of confidential information to his Breakaway email address over the past year and a half. Among the data were analyses of incoming deals and financial information of Monroe Capital clients. Mr. Woo regularly deleted the messages from his sent folder after forwarding them. The lender became aware of Mr. Woo’s email habits only this month when the Securities and Exchange Commission sent a subpoena requesting information about Breakaway Capital, according to the lawsuit. Within a week of receiving the S.E.C.’s request, Monroe Capital’s management decided to fire the executive for cause. It then filed suit against Mr. Woo in a state court in Illinois, where Monroe Capital is based. “Right now, our focus is to recover the information which he took and to prevent its use for anything but Monroe Capital purposes,” said Michael Dockterman, a lawyer for the firm. Neither Mr. Woo nor his lawyer returned calls or emails seeking comment. But in court filings, the banker is seeking to relocate the case to Federal District Court in Chicago. The lawsuit is the latest strange turn in the career of Mr. Woo, a Los Angeles native who climbed the ranks of investment banking at a number of firms before he joined UBS in 2000 as a specialist in lending and advising private equity firms. After leaving the Swiss bank in 2007, he spent roughly a year at Moelis & Company, the boutique investment bank run by his former UBS supervisor, Kenneth D. Moelis. Around the same time, he joined a group to buy the Nashville Predators hockey team. And after he left UBS, Mr. Woo set up Breakaway Capital, initially to become a full-service advisory firm. But his efforts initially led nowhere. Mr. Woo resurfaced in 2011, when Monroe Capital announced that it had hired him to lead its nascent Los Angeles office and run its West Coast operations. At the time, Mr. Koenig praised his newest hire as “one of the most successful and respected bankers on the West Coast over his 22-year career.” He was, the firm said, a rain maker who had advised on more than $25 billion worth of deals. At Monroe Capital, Mr. Woo became a prominent overseer of the firm’s main lending fund. And he was allowed to make some investments for his own account — provided that he give his employer the chance to participate in relevant deals. But within two years of joining, according to the lawsuit, he began forwarding trade secrets to his Breakaway Capital email. In some messages, Mr. Woo told at least one potential client to send all future communications to the Breakaway Capital email, the suit says. This spring, Mr. Woo filed papers in Delaware and California to do business as Breakaway Capital, working with a former private equity executive. And on Breakaway’s website, the new firm claims to be a private investment firm with $50 million in capital to invest. Not until receiving the S.E.C.’s subpoena on June 9 did Monroe Capital begin looking into the executive’s behavior. An investigation concluded that he “actively intends to use this information to compete with Monroe Capital by taking deal source leads generated by Monroe Capital.” During an emergency special meeting convened last Monday, Monroe Capital’s other senior executives digested the inquiry’s findings. They ultimately decided to fire Mr. Woo. Advertisement