Advertisement By LESLIE KAUFMAN and RAVI SOMAIYAMAY 15, 2014
 A day after The New York Times Company announced that it had dismissed Jill Abramson, The Times’s first female executive editor, it found itself mired in controversy, having to reassure employees and rebut reports that her removal was related to her complaints about receiving less pay than her male predecessors. In announcing Ms. Abramson’s departure on Wednesday, the company said she had been fired only because of management issues, but through Thursday, a strong counternarrative had emerged in the news media — including the “Morning Joe” show on MSNBC and The New Yorker — that Ms. Abramson had been a victim of sexism by being held to a different standard than male editors. The news even reverberated on Capitol Hill, where Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, used Ms. Abramson’s ouster to argue for equal pay legislation. As the debate coalesced around the issue of gender, senior Times editors met with employees to reiterate the company’s rationale for dismissing Ms. Abramson: that the decision did not reflect sexism and was not about pay disparity, but about Ms. Abramson’s style of leadership. Dean Baquet, who was promoted to replace Ms. Abramson, held a conference call with foreign correspondents and a meeting with the national desk to answer their questions about the change. The deputy managing editor for personnel issues, Janet Elder, called a meeting of senior female managers to solicit their feedback and also assure them that Ms. Abramson had received compensation comparable with her predecessors. Advertisement Alison Mitchell, the national editor, who attended the meeting, said it was not surprising that younger women in the newsroom would be upset. “Jill was an important figure,” she said. “It is important that a woman became the editor of The New York Times and she went out of her way to mentor younger women reporters.” Advertisement She added, “Those of us women in leadership positions right now need to do our job and reach out to other women.” At midday Thursday, The Times’s publisher, Arthur Sulzberger Jr., reached out to the entire newsroom, dismissing the notion that compensation had played a role in Ms. Abramson’s departure. Saying he wanted to correct “misinformation,” he wrote: “The reason — the only reason — for that decision was concerns I had about some aspects of Jill’s management of our newsroom, which I had previously made clear to her, both face-to-face and in my annual assessment.” The issue of pay rocketed around the Internet on Thursday after Ken Auletta of The New Yorker reported, in two articles, that Ms. Abramson had confronted management because she believed that her pay and her pension benefits were less than that of her predecessor, Bill Keller. Mr. Auletta, who appeared on “Morning Joe” and “CBS This Morning” wrote: “This may have fed into the management’s narrative that she was ‘pushy,’ a characterization that, for many, has an inescapably gendered aspect.” Details about her compensation were attributed to two unnamed people, an associate and a friend of Ms. Abramson’s. It was not clear who had characterized her as pushy. In his letter to the staff, Mr. Sulzberger said: “Her pay is comparable to that of earlier executive editors. In fact, in 2013, her last full year in the role, her total compensation package was more than 10 percent higher than that of her predecessor, Bill Keller, in his last full year as executive editor, which was 2010. It was also higher than his total compensation in any previous year.” In a phone interview, Mr. Auletta, who said he had not spoken to Ms. Abramson, said that his reporting showed that “in her mind, something bordered on unequal treatment for women” during her career as a senior editor and in the top job. He said he had been unable to verify with The Times the precise details of her compensation package, or those of her predecessors in various roles across the newsroom.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Within The Times newsroom, reporters and editors expressed a range of opinions over the role that gender played in her removal. Advertisement “I think traits that are perceived positively in men are perceived negatively in women: aggressiveness, decisiveness and even brusqueness,” said Patricia Cohen, a culture reporter who has been at The Times for 15 years. “Many male leaders in business have the same personality traits, and it doesn’t necessarily hurt them. But I certainly hope that gender did not play into this particular decision; I have faith in the institution of The Times.” Kate Zernike, a metro reporter who has been on staff for 14 years, said: “The rush to call this sexism is predictable, but unfortunate — and wrong. I think the truth, like it usually is, was more complicated. There are certainly gender issues at the paper, but I don’t think it’s right to see Jill’s departure as an expression of them.” Ann Marie Lipinski, the former editor of The Chicago Tribune and the curator of the Nieman Foundation for Journalism at Harvard, said that the issue of sexism in newsrooms was complex and nuanced. As with men leaving their jobs, she said, the stories are all individual. “Yet we have an ability to resupply that population,” she said of male editors, “but have not been able to sustain any level of senior female leadership in newsrooms.” Adding to the tumult at The Times, a lengthy report on digital and other innovation at the company was leaked to the website BuzzFeed. The report, prepared by A. G. Sulzberger, the publisher’s son, said The Times needed to accelerate its digital strategy, and suggested specific remedies for increasing reader engagement in the company’s journalism. Mr. Sulzberger, in announcing Ms. Abramson’s firing, said that the report had no part in his decision. And a shorter version of the report was released publicly. “We are extremely proud of this report,” said Eileen Murphy, a spokeswoman for The Times. “It is a candid assessment of our digital transformation with insightful recommendations, many of which we have embraced and are working to implement.” Ms. Abramson has not responded to repeated requests for comment over the last two days, but did surface on social media on Thursday. In an Instagram photo posted by her daughter, she stood before a punching bag, wearing workout gear and boxing gloves. Late Thursday, the president of Brandeis University announced that Ms. Abramson would not be attending the school’s commencement exercises on Sunday, when she was scheduled to receive an honorary degree. But Ms. Abramson confirmed that she would deliver the commencement address at Wake Forest University on Monday, according to a release from the school. A version of this article appears in print on May 16, 2014, on Page B1 of the New York edition with the headline: Times Seeks to Reassure Its Staff.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »