Updated, 4:15 p.m. |  Rising markets have given Lazard something to boast about. The investment bank reported on Thursday that second-quarter adjusted net income rose 43 percent, to $85.4 million, from the period a year earlier, as its asset management and deal advisory businesses showed gains. That amounted to 64 cents a share, exceeding the average estimate of 57 cents a share among analysts surveyed by Standard & Poor’s Capital IQ. Though best known as an adviser to big mergers, Lazard has benefited greatly from the strong performance of its asset management arm, whose operating revenue rose 18 percent, to $286 million. The business reported a record high of $205 billion in assets under management, as the booming stock market pushed up the value of investments. Lazard’s financial advisory arm showed strength as well, with operating revenue up 7 percent, to $281 million. “We’re kind of lucky,” Kenneth M. Jacobs, Lazard’s chairman and chief executive, said by telephone. “We’re in two of the best businesses in the financial industry right now.” The firm was the seventh-busiest merger adviser in the first half of the year, according to Thomson Reuters, having worked on 124 deals worth $275.8 billion. That put it above bigger full-service firms like Deutsche Bank and Credit Suisse. Independent investment banks have shown remarkable performance, gaining roles on some of the biggest transactions announced this year. One of the largest deals of the year, Reynolds American’s $27.4 billion bid for Lorillard, began with conversations between Lazard and another independent, Centerview Partners, according to people briefed on the matter. Such banks are seen as indicators of the health of the deal-making industry. They pitch themselves on the quality and independence of their advice, aimed primarily at deal-making, and forgo the trading operations of much bigger competitors. According to Mr. Jacobs, the firm has gained prominent assignments on big deals because of its combination of experienced senior bankers, its global presence and its breadth of industry knowledge. “Look at the Lazard franchise,” he said. “It’s designed for this.” Among the deals that the firm has worked on that closed during the quarter — especially important because that is when investment banks receive the bulk of their advisory fees — were Anheuser-Busch InBev’s $5.8 billion takeover of Oriental Brewery and American Express’s sale of half of its business travel division for $900 million. More impressive are the deals that have been announced, including AT&T’s $49 billion takeover bid for DirecTV, the Reynolds American transaction and a complicated three-way deal involving GlaxoSmithKline. Lazard worked on a number of other advisory assignments, including the Treasury Department’s sale of shares in Ally Financial during the lender’s initial public offering and financial matters involving the governments of Greece and Egypt. Mr. Jacobs says he expects the improving pace of deal-making to be sustained, as the United States’ revival appears to be continuing and Europe looks to be largely stable for the first time since fiscal turmoil erupted several years ago. The firm’s bankruptcy and restructuring practice, one of Wall Street’s largest, continued to be affected by the low level of corporate reorganizations, with operating revenue down 10 percent, at $21 million. Over all, Lazard reported that revenue in its financial advisory business for the first half of the year was up 29 percent, at $555.3 million, while revenue in its asset management arm rose 14 percent, at $548 million. A version of this article appears in print on 07/25/2014, on page B7 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Stock Market Gains and Deal-Making Lift Profit at Lazard. Advertisement