Dollar store mergers, it turns out, don’t come cheap.  Dollar General – call it General – joined the fight for a rival, the discount retailer Family Dollar, on Monday with a $9.7 billion cash offer. That topped an earlier agreed acquisition of Family by the smaller Dollar Tree, which as wags have noted could result in a combination called Family Tree. Even above General’s $78.50 a share bid, though, both suitors have room to lob in a few more singles. Dollar Tree’s deal was at $74.50 a share, denominated partly in stock. Aside from offering all cash and a bigger, 29 percent premium to Family’s undisturbed share price, General may be a better fit with Family as both companies offer goods at various prices whereas Tree sticks with items that actually sell for $1 or less. Both would-be acquirers may have left value on the table so far. General expects up to $600 million of annual synergies by the third year after a deal. Cut that to $500 million to include cost cuts rather than more nebulous revenue gains, and the savings could be worth approaching $2.9 billion in present value terms after tax. That implies General could in theory afford to pay nearly $86 a share for Family before it starts to destroy value for its shareholders. But if Family ends up with General, it will have to pay Tree a break-up fee of $305 million, or $2.68 per Family share. That may hold General back. Tree can also probably dig deeper. Its initial synergy target of $300 million a year is low, at just 1.6 percent of combined revenue. Raise that figure up to $400 million, and an $81 per share counterbid is plausible. Because there would be no termination fee, that’s probably closer to General’s actual ceiling than it looks. For now, Dollar General’s all-cash offer has the edge. Rick Dreiling, the retailer’s chief executive, has even agreed to postpone retirement to see a deal through. Dollar Tree may, however, also have a few more bucks up its sleeve if it hopes to clinch a deal. Kevin Allison is a columnist at Reuters Breakingviews. For more independent commentary and analysis, visit breakingviews.com. Advertisement