Hillary Rodham Clinton took her presidential campaign to Capitol Hill on Tuesday, where she made overtures to Congressional Democrats and spoke cautiously — and with a potential eye toward the future — about the Iran nuclear deal announced earlier in the day. The visit was Mrs. Clinton’s first to Congress since declaring her candidacy in April, and she had a packed schedule, meeting with the full House Democratic Caucus, Senate Democrats and several other party caucuses, as well as briefly addressing the news media on the Iran accord. The full day of meetings signaled Mrs. Clinton’s eagerness to lock down the support of Congressional Democrats, many of whom snubbed her in favor of then-Senator Barack Obama in 2008. Many of those same officials have already signaled their backing of Mrs. Clinton this time around, but on Tuesday, she made it “very, very clear” that she hoped to work closely with members of Congress, Representative Alan Lowenthal of California said. Members on hand for the full House caucus and Senate luncheon said Mrs. Clinton began each session with a brief stump speech focused primarily on wage growth and job creation. Then she took questions on a wide range of topics, including education policy, student debt, the environment and the Iran deal, sharing accounts of her experience in office and on the campaign trail. Mrs. Clinton’s visit unexpectedly coincided with the announcement of the long-awaited deal to curtail Iran’s nuclear program, but in both meetings, she took the occasion to outline the long history behind the agreement and her own role in bringing it about as secretary of state. “She said very positive things” about the deal, said Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia. “But she wasn’t telling anybody else what to do.” The accord is “not perfect” but “it’s a deal worth supporting,” she told lawmakers, according to notes taken by one Democrat at the morning caucus meeting and given to The New York Times. Hillary Rodham Clinton, a candidate for the 2016 Democratic presidential nomination, spoke on Tuesday about the nuclear accord between the United States and Iran. The visit came as Mrs. Clinton finds her wide lead in the Democratic field being narrowed in polls by Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, so she is working to corral the party establishment behind her. Mrs. Clinton’s stop at the luncheon briefly put her in the same room as Mr. Sanders, who left the meeting early for a news conference of his own, where he drew distinctions between himself and his former Senate colleague. Democrats in both chambers said Mrs. Clinton, and her direct appeal to work with them, was well received by an unusually large crowds gathered for her appearance. “She couldn’t have been greeted more warmly by the caucus,” said Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut as he left the Senate lunch. “She was tough, funny, powerful, very engaging and warm.” Representative Anna G. Eshoo of California said Mrs. Clinton’s experience with lawmakers on Capitol Hill and in other reaches of the government quickly became apparent to House Democrats during the morning session. Though Ms. Eshoo has yet to endorse a candidate, she said that she and others were glad to hear the former secretary of state offer a platform in line with their own. “We all know the political layers that are a part of this, but in order for national parties to be successful, they have to be able to compete with the best ideas for the future of the country, so that’s really what her visit was about,” Ms. Eshoo said. During her more than 90-minute visit with Senate Democrats, Mrs. Clinton offered to campaign for members running for re-election, said Mr. Kaine, who described Mrs. Clinton’s visit as an “unstated ask” for support. The daylong visit began with a private meeting with the House minority leader, Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, and also included meetings with members of the Congressional Black Caucus and other minority caucuses. Her visit with the black caucus lasted the longest, and touched on the controversy over the Confederate battle flag, incarceration, income inequality and poverty, among other issues, said Representative G. K. Butterfield of North Carolina, the caucus chairman. Mr. Butterfield said Mrs. Clinton impressed the caucus, and though he would not yet offer an endorsement, said she had the best chance of appealing to black voters. “I think African-Americans understand the enormity of the 2016 elections, and Mrs. Clinton, I think, is the right one to energize our base and to get a good voting turnout,” he said. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. A version of this article appears in print on 07/15/2015, on page A17 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Clinton Spends Day at Capitol, Courting Democrats and Praising Iran Deal. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			