It’s not unusual for contenders in political battles to try to win support with giveaways, a candidate offering tax cuts, for instance, or a labor union giving out free coffee and donuts at a rally. But Planned Parenthood, now embroiled in a fierce fight with Congressional Republicans, is taking the concept to a whole new level: free testing for sexually transmitted diseases.  Planned Parenthood, which provides an array of health services, including abortions, through clinics and affiliates nationwide, is under criticism by Republicans over the use of aborted fetuses in medical research. The Republicans want to cut off all federal funding to Planned Parenthood, and some lawmakers have even threatened to shut down the federal government in order to do so.  Fighting back, Planned Parenthood has declared Tuesday to be “National Pink Out Day,” and said it expected millions of supporters to rally in the group’s defense. As part of the day’s activities, the organization is offering free testing for sexually transmitted diseases in 28 cities, including Washington. where it will be available, curiously, at Ben’s Chili Bowl, a popular restaurant.  Planned Parenthood also said that its action fund had made a six-figure digital ad buy, including advertisements on the websites of The Washington Post, The New York Times and Politico. The ads emphasize the group’s work providing birth control and cancer screenings and in defending “reproductive rights.”  Other events include a march to the State Capitol in Salt Lake City, Utah, and an evening vigil in Concord, N.H.  House Republicans have announced that they are forming a special committee to investigate videos in which officials from Planned Parenthood affiliates discuss the use of aborted fetuses in medical research. Republican lawmakers have accused Planned Parenthood of violating the law by selling the fetuses for profit. Planned Parenthood has said that the videos were doctored by anti-abortion activists, that the recorded conversations were distorted and that the group does not profit from its cooperation with medical researchers. The National Pink Out Day will coincide with a House Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing on Tuesday morning about the allegations against Planned Parenthood. The committee had already begun its own investigation into the videos before leaders announced formation of a new special committee. The president of Planned Parenthood, Cecile Richards, is scheduled to testify.   Follow the New York Times Politics and Washington on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			