Remarks by Representative Kevin McCarthy linking Hillary Rodham Clinton’s sinking poll numbers to a House committee’s investigation into the 2012 attacks in Benghazi, Libya, were “deeply distressing,” Mrs. Clinton said in an interview to be shown this weekend. Speaking with the Rev. Al Sharpton on MSNBC, Mrs. Clinton, who is scheduled to testify before the Republican-led House committee on Oct. 22, said that Mr. McCarthy’s comments were evidence of the partisan nature of the investigation. Mr. McCarthy, the House majority leader from California who is seeking to become the next speaker, made his remarks Tuesday evening on Fox News.  “Everybody thought Hillary Clinton was unbeatable, right?” Mr. McCarthy said. “But we put together a Benghazi special committee, a select committee, what are her numbers today? Her numbers are dropping, why? Because she’s untrustable. But no one would have known any of that had happened.” “I have to tell you,” Mrs. Clinton told Mr. Sharpton in the interview, the transcripts of which were released Wednesday, “I find them deeply distressing,” because “I knew the ambassador that we lost in Benghazi.” “Along with him, we lost three other brave Americans who were representing us in a very dangerous part of the world,” she said. She continued: “So when I hear a statement like that, which demonstrates unequivocally that this was always meant to be a partisan political exercise, I feel like it does a grave disservice and dishonors not just the memory of the four that we lost, but of everybody who has served our country.” There have been embassies “run over,” Mrs. Clinton added. “We’ve had them blown up under Ronald Reagan, under Bill Clinton. We’ve had lots of attacks where we lost Americans or foreigners working for America, under George W. Bush. We can go back and there’s a wall in the State Department, there’s a wall in the C.I.A. where we lost those civilians we lost. It’s never been turned into a partisan political battle by the majority in Congress the way the Republicans in this Congress have done.”  Her campaign aides and allies have long viewed the committee’s work as a partisan witch hunt, and have seen her testimony as an opportunity to address it.  Mrs. Clinton also said that it remains unclear what Russia’s aim is with its air strikes into Syria, which began Wednesday, but she defended President Obama’s strategy for handling the threat posed by the Islamic State, also known as ISIS.  “I think what this shows is the complexity that we know very well, too well, some might say, in that region,” Mrs. Clinton said. “ISIS poses a threat to us. But the continuing instability, and the increased conflict that Russia is, I believe, going to add to, poses a threat to everybody.”  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER In just the past 48 hours, Mr. McCarthy insulted Speaker John A. Boehner and suggested a taxpayer-funded committee was designed to harm the political fortunes of Hillary Rodham Clinton. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			