Carly Fiorina raised $6.8 million in the three months ending on Sept. 30, a spokeswoman announced on Tuesday, a huge increase from her previous fund-raising. The surge came during a summer in which Mrs. Fiorina leapt over more established Republican rivals to become a significant contender for her party’s presidential nomination.  Mrs. Fiorina’s total, more than three times what she raised through the end of June, gives her the third-biggest haul of the candidates who are actively raising money and have announced their totals for the quarter, behind Ben Carson and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas. (Donald J. Trump, who leads in many polls, is largely funding his campaign himself.) And her total comes after a period when two candidates with strong ties to the Republican donor elite, Rick Perry and Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, dropped out of the race for lack of cash. Jeb Bush, the former Florida governor, has not yet announced his total for the quarter. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida raised about $6 million and ended the quarter with $11 million in cash on hand.  Mrs. Fiorina’s spokeswoman, Sarah Isgur Flores, said on Twitter that the candidate began the fall with $5.5 million in cash on hand. By NICK CORASANITI Mrs. Fiorina is among the presidential candidates trying to stay within federal rules, maneuvering around the gray areas and the loopholes while keeping campaign plans out in the open. By ERIC LICHTBLAU Mrs. Fiorina and Jerrold Perenchio, a billionaire who helped build Univision, became friends while traveling through similar business and political circles in California. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			