ATLANTIC, Iowa — Though Jeb Bush stood alongside Senator Marco Rubio of Florida on Tuesday night at the Republican debate, he largely steered clear of his former-mentee-turned-political-rival. But speaking to reporters amid pallets of soda at a Coca-Cola bottling plant here, Mr. Bush sounded a more confident, and aggressive, note against Mr. Rubio, saying that he was the safer choice to beat Hillary Rodham Clinton in a general election. “I’m a better bet,” Mr. Bush said.  “I’ve got a proven record, and I campaign in a way that is based on that record and based on the ideas that I have that are about the future,” he said. “And I’ve been vetted. I’ve been tested. I’m an open book.” Mr. Bush, the former governor of Florida, has struggled to gain traction with voters so far this election cycle, and has fallen in many polls. Mr. Rubio, who is competing for many of the same donors, has proved particularly confounding for Mr. Bush; an attempt to attack Mr. Rubio in a debate last month backfired, leaving Mr. Bush chastened and embarrassed. Right to Rise, a “super PAC” supporting Mr. Bush, also views Mr. Rubio as a serious threat, and recently promised to spend as much as $20 million trying to damage his reputation. It prepared, but did not air, an ad casting Mr. Rubio as unelectable in a general election because of his stance on abortion, which does not include exceptions in cases of rape or incest. But on Wednesday, when asked, Mr. Bush declined to personally criticize Mr. Rubio’s hard-line stance on abortion. “Look, I don’t think anybody should be critical of someone who’s pro-life, because I’m the most pro-life candidate on that stage,” he said, listing his various initiatives in Florida, from regulating abortion clinics and offering “Choose Life” license plates to expanding support for adoptions and funding crisis pregnancy centers. “By doing, not talking. This is the difference, again.” Asked if he would disavow his “super PAC” should it run the abortion ad against Mr. Rubio, he said, “I don’t think anybody should attack someone who’s pro-life.” Mr. Bush seemed notably more upbeat after his debate performance Tuesday evening. After hiring Jon Kraushar, an image maker who had also helped his father, former President George Bush, the younger Bush headed into the debate hoping to be more nimble and to keep his focus on Mrs. Clinton, the former secretary of state who leads in many polls of potential Democratic voters. He said Mr. Krausher was hardly an image maker — “You’re looking at it, man,” he said, gesturing to his perfectly ordinary black jeans and sports coat — but that he had “brought some logic to being able to say what you think.” “Just don’t get tripped up with the question,” Mr. Bush continued. “I’ve had 62 years of life that’s been jammed into my DNA that when someone asks you a question, you answer it. In my time as governor, we had a lively time with people in the press. I didn’t do a little kabuki dance around it.” But now, he’s trying a new approach: “Bring it on, baby,” Mr. Bush said. “That’s how I’ve been trained to do it. So now, I’m learning the new art of acknowledging the question, being respectful of the questioner, of course. And then answering with what’s on my mind. That’s change from 1953, when I was a little baby.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			