With federal budget negotiations seemingly frozen with Congress out of town, the Obama administration is increasing the pressure on congressional Republican leaders to quickly raise the federal debt limit when they return next week. In a letter to Speaker John A. Boehner, Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew warned on Thursday that the government could run out of enough money to pay its obligations by Nov. 3 instead of Nov. 5, as previously predicted. While it is only a two-day difference, that can be an important distinction considering that the Republican-controlled Congress has shown a tendency to push matters until the last minute when acting on the debt limit and other politically charged fiscal deadlines. Mr. Lew’s letter does not mention it, but the push is on to get Congress to act before Mr. Boehner vacates his position. His departure is scheduled for the end of the month, though he has said he will remain until a new speaker is elected. Mr. Boehner has made no secret of the fact that he wants to make sure the debt limit is increased — preventing a federal default — before he leaves. Mr. Lew’s letter could be seen as a help in that regard, but it could also be viewed suspiciously by Republicans as an attempt to put them under the gun when the federal government has more funding wiggle room than Mr. Lew is letting on. Whatever the case, the warning from the Treasury was stark. “We have learned from the past that failing to act until the last minute can cause serious harm to business and consumer confidence, raise short-term borrowing costs for taxpayers, and negatively impact the credit rating of the United States,” Mr. Lew wrote. “And there is no way to predict the irreparable damage that default would have on global financial markets and the American people.”  
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			