CNBC has set the stages for the Republican presidential debate next Wednesday. The 6 p.m. undercard will feature Rick Santorum, Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana, George Pataki and Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina. They will be relegated to the early slot because their average national poll numbers in the last five weeks are below 2.5 percent.  The main event, to begin shortly after 8 p.m., will have 10 candidates: Donald J. Trump, Ben Carson, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, Jeb Bush, Carly Fiorina, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, Mike Huckabee, Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, Gov. John Kasich of Ohio and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky. The lineups preserve the status quo of the previous two Republican debates in that none of the candidates were demoted from the prime-time event or banished from debating at all.  Candidates have been busy lodging complaints in recent weeks about the debate format, with Mr. Trump and Mr. Carson insisting that it be limited to two hours, rather than three, and that it include  opening and closing statements. Mr. Jindal suggested that he might skip the debate, arguing that his stronger performance in some state polls should be given greater consideration than the national polls that have him at the back of the pack.  The debate, which is being held at the University of Colorado Boulder, will focus on the economy. Mr. Trump and Mr. Carson, who are leading the polls, will stand at the center of the stage.  Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			