Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. may not be mounting his own presidential campaign, but it was clear on Wednesday that he was not ready to endorse Hillary Rodham Clinton. Mr. Biden’s remarks at the White House’s Rose Garden represented a staunch defense of the Obama administration’s legacy and some tacit warnings to Mrs. Clinton, the leading Democratic candidate who has distanced herself from some of Mr. Obama’s policies in recent months.  “I don’t think we should look at Republicans as our enemies,” Mr. Biden said, reiterating a point he made earlier this week that contradicted Mrs. Clinton’s assertion at last week’s debate that the other party is the enemy. Mr. Biden said he would continue to fight for the middle class over the next year and warned that walking away from the administration’s legacy would be wrong.  “This party, our nation, will be making a tragic mistake if we walk away or attempt to undo the Obama legacy,” Mr. Biden said. “Democrats should not only protect and defend this record,  they should run on this record.” Mrs. Clinton has recently split with the Obama administration on a range of policies, opposing the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal, calling for the repeal of the Cadillac tax on high-cost employer health plans under Obamacare, and criticizing deportations of illegal immigrants. The vice president also took a implied dig at Mrs. Clinton’s when he lamented the role of big money in politics, saying: “The middle class will never have a fighting chance in this country as long as just several hundred families, the wealthiest families, control the process.” Without mentioning the woman who would have been his opponent, Mr. Biden appeared to be calling on her to strike an inclusive tone for the good of the country. “How does this country function without consensus?” he asked. “How can we move forward without being able to arrive at consensus?” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			