Under pressure to consolidate her support among Latinos as Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont gains ground on her in Iowa, Hillary Clinton broke with the Obama administration on a key immigration provision on Monday night and promised not to be the “deporter in chief” if elected president. Speaking at the Iowa Black and Brown Forum, an event focused on minority issues and hosted by the television network Fusion, Mrs. Clinton said deportation raids were “sowing discord and fear” and argued that they were not an appropriate method of enforcing immigration laws. The Obama administration apprehended more than 100 adults and children from Central America and Mexico over the holidays as part of an effort to deport a new wave of immigrants who entered the United States illegally. As she spoke at the forum, which also separately featured her rivals for the Democratic presidential nomination, Mr. Sanders and Martin O’Malley, Mrs. Clinton’s campaign released a four-point plan for assisting Central American families in need. “It is important to put this in the broader context,” Mrs. Clinton said. “We have to have comprehensive immigration reform.” Mrs. Clinton declined to promise that she would not deport children, but she said she would ensure that they had sufficient counsel and were given “due process” and a chance to tell their story and avoid deportation. “What I don’t like are the mass roundups and the raids that just pick people up and send them out in the middle of the night,” she said. In December, Mrs. Clinton said she was “concerned” about reports of the raids but did not condemn them outright. The three Democratic presidential candidates have been canvassing Iowa ahead of the Feb. 1 caucuses. Mr. Sanders has come within three percentage points of Mrs. Clinton in the most recent poll of Iowa Democrats, and the contest has grown increasingly caustic. “It could be that the inevitable candidate for the Democratic nomination may not be so inevitable today,” Mr. Sanders said at the event, referring to Mrs. Clinton’s more aggressive approach. Mr. O’Malley, a former governor of Maryland, did his best to bolster his flagging candidacy and take advantage of some rare national exposure. Asked if he thought Mrs. Clinton would continue President Obama’s deportation policy, he appeared to take offense to the question. “No, because she is not going to win the election,” Mr. O’Malley said. “I am.” The Democrats did their best to focus on substantive policy issues and avoid attacks on Republicans. After trying to not to mention his name earlier in the evening, however, Mrs. Clinton could not help taking a dig at Donald J. Trump.  In response to a question about what she gave Mr. Trump as a gift when attending his 2005 wedding, she said, “Nothing.” Then she elaborated on their previous relationship and offered some fodder that other Republicans might use against the billionaire real estate mogul, who is leading most polls in the Republican race. “He was basically a Democrat before he was a Republican,” Mrs. Clinton said. “He was somebody that we all knew in New York. He was supportive of Democrats. He was supportive of a lot of the causes that I cared about and the people I know cared about. Now he seems to have taken another road.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			