Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, buoyed by a steady debate performance and a slew of encouraging polls recently in Iowa and beyond, is beginning a seven-day, 12-city, general-election-style tour on Thursday of the so-called Super Tuesday states. Mr. Cruz has invested heavily in the many Southern states that vote on March 1 and his delegate strategy is predicated largely on amassing victories across the region. As part of the trip, called the “Take-Off with Ted Cruz Country Christmas Tour,” he will fly first from a rally in Las Vegas, the site of the Republican presidential debate on Tuesday, to a gathering in St. Paul. Mr. Cruz will be traveling with family and staff members on a chartered plane, with planned stops in Virginia, Georgia, Alabama, Tennessee, Arkansas and Oklahoma. He also visited several of the states during a seven-day tour in August. “We’ve always believed that the G.O.P. primary calendar gives Cruz an early advantage,” the Texas senator’s spokesman, Rick Tyler, said in an email announcing the events last week. “So we have spent significant time in those states and have built an army of conservative volunteers to get out the vote just like the ones we have unleashed in the first four early states.” The rallies come as Mr. Cruz is engaged in an increasingly pitched confrontation with a rival for the Republican nomination, Senator Marco Rubio, over immigration and national security policies. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			