With attention focused on his rivals and the attacks they sling at one another, Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio is finding some signs of hope in New Hampshire. Mr. Kasich has devoted significant time and attention to the state, where the primary is Feb. 9, and he is planning to campaign there through Tuesday, according to his team. On Wednesday, he will address the New Hampshire House of Representatives in Concord on Wednesday. Two of his rivals for the Republican nomination, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida and Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, will also address lawmakers. On Sunday, Mr. Kasich was endorsed by The Telegraph of Nashua, which cited his experience as both an executive and a congressman. And on Friday, he won the backing of The Portsmouth Herald and Foster’s Daily Democrat; in a joint editorial, the newspapers wrote that “in a race awash in half-truths and exaggerations, Kasich can stand on his record of accomplishment without the need to embellish it.” While polls have shown Donald J. Trump with a wide lead in the state, Mr. Kasich is counting on a strong showing behind Mr. Trump to catapult his candidacy into the spotlight. In a Monmouth University poll conducted Jan. 7 to 10, Mr. Kasich, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas and Mr. Rubio were in close competition for second place. “If all the sudden I become very well known because we do well here, then, you know, it’s going to solve a lot of our problems,” Mr. Kasich said in an interview last week on WABC radio’s “Election Central With Rita Cosby.” Another possibility: If Mr. Kasich fares poorly, his campaign probably won’t be a campaign for too much longer. Mr. Kasich acknowledged as much in the WABC interview. “If I get smoked in New Hampshire, then, you know, kind of the ballgame’s over,” he said. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			