BURLINGTON, Iowa — Hillary Clinton on Wednesday defended Planned Parenthood, the Human Rights Campaign and other Democratic-leaning organizations and labor unions that have endorsed her candidacy and that her main opponent, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, has deemed part of the “establishment.” “I was proud to be endorsed by the Planned Parenthood Action Fund because of the work I have done to defend women’s health and I was proud to be supported and endorsed by the Human Rights Campaign because of the work I have done to end discrimination against the L.G.B.T. community,” Mrs. Clinton told a large crowd gathered in the ballroom of a hotel casino here. She added that she was “somewhat confused” by Mr. Sanders’s comments, which he made in an interview with MSNBC on Wednesday, that the groups that had endorsed Mrs. Clinton’s candidacy represented the establishment politics he rails against. “What we are doing in this campaign, it blows my mind every day because I see it clearly, we’re taking on not only Wall Street and the economic establishment, we’re taking on the political establishment,” Mr. Sanders told MSNBC’s Rachel Maddow. “So,” he continued, “I have friends and supporters in the Human Rights Fund and Planned Parenthood, but you know what? Hillary Clinton has been around there for a very, very long time. Some of these groups are, in fact, part of the establishment.” Mrs. Clinton, who has been endorsed by 21 national labor unions and labor alliances, reminded the crowd of the support she has garnered among Democratic-leaning groups and individuals, including Gabrielle Giffords, the Arizona congresswoman who survived a mass shooting in 2012 and  “who endorsed me because I’m standing up to the gun lobby.” She particularly defended Planned Parenthood, which Republican presidential candidates want to defund and which had not previously endorsed a candidate in a Democratic presidential primary. “I wish it were” establishment, Mrs. Clinton said. “If it were part of the establishment, we wouldn’t have to work so hard to protect it.” Mrs. Clinton’s lead in endorsements by labor unions and other groups is not just good optics. Support from groups like Planned Parenthood and the Human Rights Campaign mean Mrs. Clinton’s campaign can tap into their army of volunteers and supporters to knock on doors and serve essentially as an arm of the campaign. Mr. Sanders has earned the endorsement of progressive groups like MoveOn.org and Democracy for America but lags significantly in winning over elected officials and labor unions.
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			