HAMPTON, N.H. — The question came from a self-proclaimed “Bush-o-phile,” and the answer offered a fascinating, if free-form, glimpse into Bush family dynamics. Why, the voter asked, is Jeb Bush not using his father and brother — George Bush and George W. Bush, the 41st and 43rd presidents of the United States — more on the campaign trail, to help him rise in the polls? (“Your polls not being higher than they are,” the voter prodded, helpfully.) First, Jeb Bush tried the he’s-his-own-man trope. “People are going to vote for me,” he said, noting that he’s a “62-year-old man that has some life experience.” He added: “They may love my dad. Some may love my brother and not love my dad. It’s a little more complicated. It’s not all kind of a unified deal.” Next, the former Florida governor tried the but-he’s-also-a-proud-Bushie response. “I’m proud of them, I’m not running away from them, that is total nonsense,” he said. “I’m not running away from my brother or my dad, but I know for a fact that I’m going to have to win this because I’m running for president and people have to have confidence that I have the skills to lead.” Then he grew slightly philosophical. “And so, I spend time talking about my family in a loving way,” he said. “But you can’t ignore them because that’s weird. That’s kind of a strange thing. But you can’t over-rely on them either. There’s a balance.” Moments later, Jeb Bush announced among the worst kept — but most closely guarded — secrets of his campaign: That his older brother George W. will likely soon be joining him on the trail.  “I’m sure my brother will be campaigning for me by my side,” he said. And then Jeb Bush couldn’t help but address a general concern about his candidacy. “There are people who think it’s a little odd for a third Bush to be president of the United States,” he said, echoing a semi-common voter refrain. “The expectations on me are higher because of that. Fine. You know who has higher expectations than conventional wisdom? Me. I have higher expectations of myself.” Finally, he inadvertently stepped on his own campaign news, revealing that his mother had cut a video appeal for him, set to go public on Friday. In a campaign video released by the Bush campaign, the family matriarch Barbara Bush talks about Jeb. Later, asked by reporters about his mother’s video, he joked, “Did I say that? I said it out loud?” before acknowledging the obvious: “I don’t think she was prepared to endorse anyone else,” Mr. Bush said, “but it’s a nice validation just in case people were wondering.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			