CONCORD, N.H. – It was among the most memorable campaign pledges of the 2012 presidential race: In a Newt Gingrich administration, the onetime House speaker vowed, the United States would colonize the moon. Debate audiences laughed. So did some competitors. But at least one viewer, it seems, was moved by the cosmic challenge: Jeb Bush. Campaigning in New Hampshire on Wednesday, Mr. Bush professed a soft spot for the idea. “People started laughing,” he told voters at a town hall-style event, recalling Mr. Gingrich’s remarks. “And I’m thinking, ‘Really?’ I think it’s pretty cool.” Mr. Bush did not offer anything approaching an extensive plan. (There is no space travel section of his stump speech; he was responding to a woman in the audience who asked how Mr. Bush would reinvigorate the space program.) And he acknowledged that such efforts were “not risk-averse kind of enterprises.” Yet, citing the significance of space travel to Florida, where he served as governor, Mr. Bush wondered aloud what was “wrong about having big, aspirational goals.” “It’s not in the absence of taking care of the hungry or the poor,” he said. “We’re a big country, we’re a generous country, and the benefits of this are far more than people realize.” Mr. Bush said the country should partner with “dreamers in the private sector,” mentioning the business magnate and inventor Elon Musk by name, and noted the importance of persuading people that there were benefits to space travel “in the here and now, benefits on planet Earth, when we have a zeal for discovery.” In recent days, Mr. Bush’s enthusiasm for the subject has been clear. During a speech about his health care proposals on Tuesday, Mr. Bush invoked the words of President John F. Kennedy, recalling his stirring call to put an American on the moon. And on Wednesday, when the questioner said she had lived on Florida’s Space Coast, Mr. Bush offered her a modest fist bump. Speaking to reporters afterward, Mr. Bush was asked whom he might place in charge of his moon colony. “There’s lots of people that could be effective leaders of the moon,” he said dryly. “Let me think about it.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			