Advertisement By AMY CHOZICKNOV. 8, 2016
 Mrs. Clinton, the Democratic nominee, filled out her ballot in Chappaqua, N.Y., on Tuesday morning, surrounded by a crowd of fans. CHAPPAQUA, N.Y. — On a bright Election Day morning, Hillary Clinton cast a vote for herself for president, the final step of a turbulent 19-month campaign. Inside the cramped auditorium of Douglas G. Grafflin Elementary School, neighbors and supporters swarmed around Mrs. Clinton and former President Bill Clinton to catch a glimpse. Fathers hoisted their daughters on their shoulders and mothers held babies in the air to get a photo of Mrs. Clinton, bent down to fill out her ballot. “It’s a humbling feeling,” Mrs. Clinton told reporters as she shook hands with supporters gathered outside the polling location. What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “I know how much responsibility goes with this,” she added, “so many people are counting on the outcome of this election and what it means for our country.” Advertisement Asked if she thought of her mother, Dorothy Rodham, who was born on the day Congress approved women’s right to vote, and whose impoverished childhood formed the backbone of her daughter’s campaign, Mrs. Clinton replied, “Oh, I did.” After voting Mrs. Clinton went back to her house, about a five-minute drive from the school, and did a string of interviews to encourage people to vote. Advertisement “I was glad to see there were lots of people out to vote,” she told a Detroit radio station. Later on Tuesday, Mrs. Clinton and her top aides planned to decamp to a Midtown hotel to fine-tune the two versions of the speech she planned to deliver at the Javits Center, and to watch the results come in to see which version of that speech she would end up giving. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »