Advertisement By MARK LEIBOVICHSEPT. 7, 2012
 CHARLOTTE, N.C. “HEY, it’s Anderson Cooper!” Early Friday morning, about 90 minutes after President Obama finished his acceptance speech a few blocks away, a little slice of hell was breaking loose in front of the Ritz-Carlton. As mobs of delegates, donors and Democratic Usual Suspects were flooding out of the Time Warner Cable Arena, Mr. Cooper was trying to flee without notice from the free bar and restaurant, the CNN Grill, that his network had established for the week. It was one of several troughs within a few blocks of one another where seemingly anyone with rudimentary door-talking skills could freely nourish and inebriate himself. Eat and drink free, and maybe catch a picture of Anderson Cooper? This could be fun. Unless you’re Mr. Cooper, at this wee-hours moment at least: with 1 a.m. approaching, the host of CNN’s “Anderson Cooper 360” emerged from the grill looking exhausted, with his head ducked. He tried to cross the street. Cue hell. “Anderson, stop, Anderson!” a lunging woman yelled, and within seconds a hungry mob of a dozen iPhone paparazzi was chasing in a hot camera-pointing pursuit. “Just one picture, please, please,” shouted one stampeder, knocking a convention delegate to the ground. Mr. Cooper did his own 360 and headed to the safety of the Ritz, where the full-on decadence and celebrity culture of the modern political convention had been on eloquent display in the lobby all week. So much for hell. Advertisement This was the week’s culminating wee-hours scene: Mr. Cooper rushing through the mob, past the Democratic money maven Orin Kramer, who stood a few feet from where the actress Eva Longoria had just breezed through, and where Senator John Kerry, who himself had just finished a big speech, was now ducking into the lobby men’s room. Advertisement The wood-paneled tables of the lobby bar were veritable table-hops for signature Democrats. The hard-covered liquor and snacks menu resembled a book. Orders being discussed: milk chocolate fondue, mini lobster rolls with shaved asparagus and a $420 bottle of Louis Roederer Champagne. It was difficult to inch along the main convention drags in Charlotte last week, as in Tampa, Fla., the week before, without concluding that we are living in fat, prosperous times, and forgetting that the national economy has lagged for years and that large numbers of Americans are feeling deep contempt for the two major political parties. Never mind all that. Political conventions are about big speeches, funny hats and packed swag bags, and they are also moneyed and decadent affairs. To wit: the rolling party at the Ritz bar, spilling into the adjacent BLT Steak restaurant. “This is our temporary Gucci Gulch,” said Rick Williams, a Democratic lobbyist in from Nashville, christening the Ritz scene in honor of the seminal book about the Washington lobbying culture of the 1980s. He was plunked down Wednesday at a wooden table, picking at a Caesar salad. Mr. Williams was just sitting here, by the way, not actually staying there. Nor was Representative Steve Cohen, Democrat of Tennessee, who had just approached, parking himself under a silver wire structure hanging from the ceiling. He called the gilded tableau before him, “The crème brûlée, the tiramisù of our party.” This would make us hungry, except that we were just coming from the Bloomberg buffet, or was it that Huffington Post “Oasis,” or that brunch put on by those lobbyists, or that trade group — I forget which one. Indeed, there was nothing stopping the Democrats, the purported party of the middle class, from enjoying the sweeter One-Percenty parts of life last week. Not here, not last week, at this festival of pinstriped populism, packed swag bags and congressmen clutching Ritz-monogrammed umbrellas while bolting the arena on Tuesday before the first lady’s speech. (Representative John Larson of Connecticut, busted!) You can always tell the real players, the real overlords, by The Walk. Not so much by their entourages or the number of earpieces around them or the size of their silvery little lapel pins (smaller the pin, bigger the deal). But by their brisk and purposeful gait through the Ritz-Carlton lobby. Robert Rubin, the former Treasury secretary and Wall Street sovereign, still has The Walk. Late Wednesday afternoon, he was moving through the bar looking tired. But he still drew the “Hey, isn’t that Bob Rubin?” stares. Advertisement “You can always tell by the way they move, that sense of purpose,” said Jeff Smith, a former Missouri state senator who ran afoul of campaign finance laws and wound up in jail for a year. Mr. Smith never got to Washington, in other words, and now he’s teaching public policy at the New School in New York. As he spoke, Terry McAuliffe, the notable Democratic money man who presumably emerged from the womb doing The Walk, was blitzing through in the lobby, waving to everyone. “Hey, Terry!” someone yelled at him, and he detoured past the table-hopping former congressman from Tennessee, Harold Ford, now a regular on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe.” Mr. Smith was introduced to Mr. McAuliffe. “I used to date one of your biggest fans,” Mr. Smith said to Mr. McAuliffe, the former Democratic National Committee chairman, “and I’m pretty sure the feeling is mutual.” “Who is that?” Mr. McAuliffe asked. “Hillary?” No, it was Mr. McAuliffe’s former press aide, now working on the president’s re-election campaign. Mr. Smith and Mr. McAuliffe posed for a photo and the latter Walked on. A few seconds later, Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon headed onto a nearby elevator and waved. Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota walked in via the coffee shop (Bar Cocoa). There was the former governor of Ohio, Ted Strickland, holding court on a far couch, and Senator Chris Coons of Delaware (a k a The Guy Who Got to Run Against Christine O’Donnell in 2010), who would soon be heading to dinner at BLT Steak, where Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack would be dining, also, with the actor Jeff Bridges. By 6 o’clock, eight Democratic congressmen populated the lobby and bar, while another trickle of senators headed to a reception upstairs. One Bob Schieffer was coming through, a Tom Brokaw, a Piers Morgan, a Paul Begala, and dozens of super-donors, lobbyists, super-staffers, assorted coat-holders and other people on TV (“Hey, Chris Matthews, can I get a picture?”).  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “I am exhausted,” said Heather Podesta, a Democratic super-lobbyist, who was wearing a multicolored silk suit that looked as if it were spray-painted on. “Graffiti-inspired,” she called the outfit. She plopped down at a Ritz table for a few minutes. She is trying to stay on her best behavior after being quoted in a Reuters article that described Charlotte as a “second-tier city.” “It’s grim,” she said in the article. “Going to the Nascar Hall of Fame isn’t reason enough to be in Charlotte.” People noticed that, local people, and not happy ones. “Now I’m being good,” she said, picking from a bowl of sesame-crusted almonds. After a few minutes, she tried to haul herself to another reception, this one at the home of Erskine Bowles, the former chief of staff in the Clinton White House. Suddenly, the dull power roar of the lobby was interrupted by disjointed yells. A group of about a dozen pink-clad protesters was moving through the lobby. They were now singing something — hard to make out the words — to the tune of “Hit the Road, Jack” before breaking into a chant of “Get Money Out of Politics” as they were led out, briskly, by security guards. It’s always a little fraught with Democrats. Beneath the shiny surfaces, this was also true in Charlotte. They were celebrating themselves in a rough economy, renominating a president who has been accused (up and down, at the Republican self-love-counterpart in Tampa) of someone who punishes success. If you’re a Democrat, and sneering about the tax breaks you say Mitt Romney wants to give “the wealthiest Americans, like him,” shouldn’t you be at least sheepish about these lavish things? You have to ask. The responses are typically nonapologetic but can carry a slight whiff of defensiveness. “Working people should also be able to experience the good things in life,” said Dolores Huerta, the civil rights champion and co-founder of the United Farm Workers with César Chávez. She was at a late-night reception Monday hosted by the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States, standing a few feet from a bar made of ice and bathed in emerald green lighting. “Except for that ice bar, I don’t think this is all that ostentatious,” Ms. Huerta said as a waiter walked by, carrying a tray of mint chocolate macaroons. “The little guy should be able to enjoy this too.” In other words, Charlotte was a No Guilt Zone, liberal or otherwise. “Do too many shrimp die on a week like this? Yes, probably,” said Tony Podesta, the Democratic mega-lobbyist and Heather’s husband. He was wearing a tan suit and laceless red sneakers at a brunch reception that he and Heather were hosting Tuesday — their second in two days — at an art museum near the arena. Mr. Podesta, 68, was more shrugging than sheepish. And, as the head of a firm that lobbies for BP, whose crude has poisoned many a shrimp, his crustacean-friendly bona-fides are questionable. Advertisement Regardless, any hint of an apology tour was undetectable, especially in the presence of good food, powerful friends, well-fed and well-heeled clients — all mainstays of this or any convention. Processions of congressman, ambassadors, lobbyists and donor types filed through to pay respects. “I’m here to get Tony’s blessing,” said Rob McCoy, the state treasurer of Pennsylvania. Senators Ben Cardin of Maryland and Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island walked by, as did the Democratic fund-raiser Patricia Duff, and the Wal-Mart government relations guy, Leslie Dach. The Podestas had made a preconvention “tasting trip” to Charlotte. They sampled from 30 local eateries to yield this day’s decadent smorgasbord of bourbon chocolate truffles, cucumber slices topped with chicken salad and crab cakes slathered with peach chowchow. The cuisine does make the Obama-era vilification of lobbyists go down much easier. That is for sure. Four years ago, in Denver, the Podestas made up Scarlett “Ls” — for “lobbyist” — as badges of defiance. Even sweeter defiance? Business is grand these days, and so are the Bloody Marys. Mr. Podesta’s firm, the Podesta Group, is in line to have its best year ever, he said. Ms. Podesta said the anti-lobbying trash talk did bother her for a time. “It felt like I was in a cage,” she said, as she had before. “But the food was good.” She shrugged, which as much as anything was the prevailing expression of any angst on display in Charlotte last week. That’s the system. It might not be pretty, but you might as well eat, and better yet for free. “Look, I need to raise money, just like most members of Congress do,” said Representative Cohen, who on Wednesday afternoon was walking through the lobby of the Ritz-Carlton where, he reiterates, he was not staying. Senator Kerry, who was, walked out past him — cellphone to ear, not to be bothered — and into a waiting Suburban. Representative Cohen said he was being opposed in his Memphis-area district in November by a “self-funder” whom he said would spend $4 million to portray him as “a hermaphrodite, poppy-growing Al Qaeda member.” Yes, he would change the system if he could, absolutely, the congressman said. “But I have to operate in the real world,” he said, heading back into the Ritz-Carlton, if not the real world. A version of this article appears in print on September 9, 2012, on Page ST1 of the New York edition with the headline: In a Swirl of Excess, No Guilt Included.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »