As a general rule, foreign ambassadors in Washington do not comment on American politics. But that was before Donald J. Trump began broadcasting his views on the supposed danger posed by Muslims in the United States and abroad.  In a meeting Thursday with reporters, Sir Peter Westmacott, Britain’s ambassador to the United States, did not wait to be asked about Mr. Trump’s latest comments alleging that Britain was ignoring the Muslim danger within.  “There is somebody called Donald Trump running in your presidential campaign, and he again spoke this morning about the U.K., saying that we were busy disguising a massive Muslim problem, ” Mr. Westmacott said. “That’s not the way we see it. We are very proud of our Muslim community in the United Kingdom.” Mr. Westmacott said that the actions of Jihadist groups did not reflect the true nature of Islam, and he added that the sort of inflammatory language Mr. Trump has engaged in will only make the task of fighting terrorism more difficult.  Part of the solution, he said, “is to work with our Muslim communities, not to push them away with divisive or threatening language. So we don’t really recognize that kind of talk.”  Mr. Westmacott, who is winding up a four-year tour in Washington and who joined his country’s diplomatic service in 1972, added that his assessment was shared by Prime Minister David Cameron and the British police.  Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			