Republicans have been talking tough on immigration this primary season, and on Thursday, they will get a taste of how Democrats might use that against them in a general election. On the anniversary of President Obama’s executive actions to ease burdens on immigrants, the Service Employees International Union and iAmerica Action are releasing a “substantial” national advertising campaign that targets Republicans on immigration. The executive actions, which were to shield millions of immigrants from deportation and would have allowed them to work in the country legally, have been delayed in the courts, and with the rise of Donald J. Trump, Republicans have been using increasingly heated language on the issue, threatening mass deportations and tougher border controls. The ads will run in Spanish on Telemundo and Univision and during the Latin Grammy Awards on Thursday. The ads will also air in Nevada, Florida, Colorado and Texas through Sunday, and English versions will run online. “These candidates may be different, but their messages are all the same,” the narrator says, as clips of Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, Jeb Bush and Mr. Trump flash across the screen. “We will not accept hate. We will not allow anti-immigrant attacks.” The six-figure ad purchase also includes a Spanish-language spot urging Latino families to stand up to Republican policies. The groups are also mobilizing demonstrations across the country that will target Republican leaders such as Paul D. Ryan, the speaker of the House. On Monday, the Service Employees International Union endorsed Hillary Rodham Clinton for president. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			