Donald J. Trump has regained the initiative in New Hampshire, according to a new poll that demonstrates his enduring popularity in the face of more aggressive rivals and a fraught national security landscape. A survey from WBUR finds Mr. Trump leading the field of Republican presidential hopefuls with the support of 22 percent of likely Republican primary voters. Ben Carson and Senator Marco Rubio of Florida trail him, each with 11 percent, followed by Senator Ted Cruz of Texas at 8 percent. The poll had a margin of error of five percentage points. The results represent good news for Mr. Trump, who has seen Mr. Carson, a retired neurosurgeon, gain on him in recent polls. WBUR’s poll from late October showed Mr. Trump leading him by just three percentage points. But November has proved to be chilly for Mr. Carson, as questions about his honesty and his grasp of foreign policy have dogged his upstart campaign. Mr. Trump, meanwhile, has continued to harness his ability to generate buzz and publicity while undercutting his opponents with ruthless attacks. Steve Koczela, president of the MassINC Polling Group, which conducted the survey, said that Mr. Trump was luring the bulk of voters who want an “outsider” candidate while those who want someone with political experience were divided among several candidates. Rounding out the next tier of candidates in the Granite State were Jeb Bush, Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio and Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey. “There are enough of those voters and they’re concentrated enough in their support of Donald Trump that they are keeping him in the lead,” Mr. Koczela said. The poll was conducted after last week’s Paris attacks and found that just 38 percent of those queried said that more American troops should be deployed in the Middle East. On immigration, which is Mr. Trump’s core issue, 42 percent said that people who had entered the country illegally should be deported. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			