Speaking at the Citadel, a military college in South Carolina, the Republican presidential candidate Jeb Bush called for a United States-led coalition to take on the Islamic State. CHARLESTON, S.C. — Seizing on the Paris terrorist attacks, Jeb Bush called Wednesday for a United States-led global coalition, including troops on the ground, to take out the Islamic State “with overwhelming force.” Mr. Bush’s speech at The Citadel was originally meant to focus on his vision for overhauling the nation’s military to combat the threats of the 21st century.
But after Friday’s terrorist attacks in the French capital, Mr. Bush decided to call for deploying ground troops and having the United States take the lead in the global fight against the Islamic State, and as he reworked his 24-minute speech to address what he called the “brutal savagery” that serves as “a reminder of what’s at stake in this election.” “The United States should not delay in leading a global coalition to take out ISIS with overwhelming force,” Mr. Bush told an audience of cadets at the military college. “Militarily, we need to intensify our efforts in the air — and on the ground.” Mr. Bush called specifically for removing self-imposed restraints on the Air Force, enforcing a no-fly zone over Syria and creating safe zones there, allowing the nation’s Special Operations teams to go after terrorist networks, and arming Kurdish forces already battling the Islamic State.  “We are at war with radical Islamic terrorism,” Mr. Bush said. “Radical Islamic terrorists have declared war on the Western world. Their aim is our total destruction. We can’t withdraw from this threat, or negotiate with it. We have but one choice: to defeat it.” While the Republican presidential candidates have generally been critical of President Obama’s approach toward the Islamic State, they have shown some reluctance to offer detailed plans of how to respond. Further complicating matters for Mr. Bush is that his candidacy is viewed by many through the lens of his brother George W. Bush, who invaded Iraq in 2003 and lost support as the conflict dragged on.  At The Citadel, Mr. Bush was careful to stress that the United States should not work alone to spearhead a global fight against radical Islamic terrorism, and said that the majority of the ground troops would come from the forces of neighboring states in the region.  He also said he would rely on the recommendations of the military generals — a point President Obama often makes in defending how he decides on whether to use military force.
“We don’t need to be the world’s policemen, but we must restore our place as the leader and indispensable power of the free world,” he said. Reading from a teleprompter, Mr. Bush adopted the more forceful tone that was also on display on the campaign trail this week, casting himself as a serious-minded candidate for serious times, one whose proven record of fixing complex problems as the governor of Florida is meant to reassure voters that he is capable of serving as the nation’s commander in chief. The speech comes at a critical moment for Mr. Bush, who despite huge spending by the “super PAC” supporting him has seen his poll numbers stagnate in the high single digits since this summer. He has been overshadowed in the race by colorful political outsiders like Donald J. Trump and Ben Carson, who lead in many national polls. But his team hopes that the Paris attacks may lead voters to take another look at Mr. Bush, a former Florida governor, and his executive experience. This week, however, Mr. Bush struggled to respond to questions about how he would handle Syrian refugees after the Paris attacks.  He said he supported allowing some refugees into the country — especially women, children and Christians, but also moderate Muslims who have passed a rigorous vetting process. But he also said that he respected the decision of the more than two dozen Republican governors who have threatened to deny refugees entry into their states, as well as the proposal by Speaker Paul D. Ryan to suspend a federal program to let Syrian refugees into the country. On Wednesday, Mr. Bush also called for improving the nation’s defenses against cyberwarfare, and said he would fight to restore the National Security Agency’s bulk data collection program. Turning to the cadets, who gave him a standing ovation, Mr. Bush concluded: “Together, we can deter aggression, protect our vital interests, overcome the violent and defend the innocent who are helpless, but for us,” he said. “So let us accept the task, and see it through, to move this world again in the direction of peace.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. A version of this article appears in print on 11/19/2015, on page A22 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Ground Forces Needed to Vanquish ISIS, Bush Tells Cadets at Citadel. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			