The senator from South Carolina said the Republican Party might have to rally around Senator Ted Cruz to keep the nomination from going to Donald Trump. Senator Lindsey Graham, watching Donald J. Trump’s rise in Tuesday’s voting contests, now sees a colleague he reviles, Senator Ted Cruz, as the lesser of two evils to save the Republican Party.  “Ted Cruz is not my favorite by any means,” Mr. Graham told CBS News late Tuesday, as Mr. Trump was on course to win seven states. But he added, “We may be in a position where we have to rally around Ted Cruz as the only way to stop Donald Trump.” For Mr. Graham, the South Carolina Republican who dropped out of the presidential race in December, the comment is a sea change. Mr. Cruz, the Texas senator, is far from beloved among most of his colleagues. Many of them still resent that he called the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, a “liar” in a speech on the Senate floor.  Mr. Graham has said, at least half jokingly, that if someone killed Mr. Cruz “on the floor of the Senate, and the trial was in the Senate, nobody would convict you.” That sentiment has been part of why a number of Republicans have moved toward another senator, Marco Rubio of Florida, as their best option for defeating Mr. Trump.  But late Tuesday, Mr. Graham suggested that the situation has become so dire that, at this point, the party should get behind Mr. Cruz.  “I can’t believe I would say yes. But yes,” he told the interviewer Charlie Rose.   Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			