Donald J. Trump is not going this week to Nevada, where Republicans will hold their caucuses on Tuesday. While there’s a dearth of reliable polling there, Mr. Trump is not worried about his prospects in the state.  At an event in South Carolina on Wednesday morning, Mr. Trump boasted about available polls that show him with a wide lead in Nevada, where he owns property, including a hotel and casino.  “Maybe I don’t even have to go there and campaign,” Mr. Trump said.  Boasting about having to spend minimal time in a state is unusual for a candidate. And it’s a stark contrast to the Democratic caucuses in the state, which will be held this Saturday. Hillary Clinton, trying to fend off a strong challenge from Senator Bernie Sanders in a state she won in 2008, arrives there tonight to campaign in the run-up to the caucuses.  As of now, Mr. Trump only has one event scheduled for noon in Sparks, Nev., on Tuesday, the day of the caucuses.  If Mr. Trump wins South Carolina, as polls indicate he is currently on track to do, it will be after Senator Ted Cruz and others have aired ads describing him as a liberal, showing footage of him once calling himself “very pro-choice.”  Asked about his abortion position in Bluffton, S.C., Mr. Trump, said, “I’m pro-life.”  Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. A version of this article appears in print on 02/18/2016, on page A14 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Trump Is Staying Away From Nevada, Even With Only Days Till the Caucuses . 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			