Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York will help raise money for Hillary Clinton’s presidential bid at a campaign event in New York City next week, according to an invitation to the gathering. Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Cuomo are set to appear together at an undisclosed location in the city on Feb. 16, in the interval between the New Hampshire primary on Tuesday and the Nevada caucuses on Feb. 20. The fund-raising event is a new foray into the presidential race for Mr. Cuomo, who has typically shied away from federal politics since his election as governor in 2010. He only briefly attended the Democratic convention in 2012, and scrapped plans that year to campaign in Florida for President Obama because of Hurricane Sandy. Mr. Cuomo has been a more energetic advocate in the 2016 race for Mrs. Clinton, with whom he has a relationship dating to his time as housing secretary in President Bill Clinton’s administration. They traveled to Britain together for a visit with Tony Blair in 1997, and Mr. Cuomo campaigned for Mrs. Clinton when she ran for the Senate in 2000, and for her last presidential bid in 2008. Since endorsing her again last April – on the day she announced her campaign – Mr. Cuomo has regularly criticized Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont for his record on gun issues. The invitation for next week’s event asks donors to attend “a conversation with Hillary Rodham Clinton.” Donors who raise $25,000 or more are invited to a special reception with Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Cuomo.. Mrs. Clinton has promoted Mr. Cuomo, too, and last weekend posted on Twitter her approval of his announcement of new regulations against so-called conversion therapy, a discredited practice that purports to purge people of same-sex attraction.  Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			