Most Americans describe themselves as very concerned about the threat of attacks from terrorists, but considerably fewer worry about a mass shooting taking place in the area where they live, according to the most recent New York Times/CBS News poll. Roughly three in five Americans said they were very worried about terrorists coming from abroad or domestic attackers inspired by foreign extremists. Less than half that number — 23 percent — described themselves as very concerned about the threat of a mass shooting in the area where they lived. This contrasts with the widely reported fact that Americans are much more likely to die in mass shootings than in a terrorist attack. All told, almost nine in 10 Americans said in the poll that they worried to some degree about the threat of terrorism by extremists and foreigners, while 53 percent expressed concern about a mass shooting happening near them. Nineteen percent named terrorism or Islamic extremism as the most important problem facing the United States, against 6 percent citing guns or gun laws. The poll showed that despite fears of new attacks, Americans are lukewarm on strengthening gun control measures. Fifty-one percent said that laws covering the sale of guns should be made more strict, compared to 46 percent who either said they should be left unchanged or made less strict. That’s down from October, when 58 percent favored stronger gun laws. And 44 percent of Americans in this month’s poll said they would favor a nationwide ban on assault weapons, the lowest figure in the 20 years that The Times and CBS News have been asking the question. In January 2011, immediately after a mass shooting in Tucson killed six and seriously wounded Representative Gabrielle Giffords, 63 percent of those polled supported a ban on assault weapons. In August 1999, with the April massacre at Columbine High School still seared in the public mind, more than three-quarters of Americans supported a nationwide ban on assault weapons. Firearms kill more than 30,000 people in the United States each year, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Over the past 10 years, mass shootings have killed 641, according to data compiled by Stanford University Library’s Mass Shootings in America project, which does not count attacks motivated by gang or drug activity. By comparison, Islamic extremists have killed 43 people in the United States over the same time period, according to statistics compiled by New America. The shooting last month in San Bernardino, Calif., was a rare hybrid: a mass attack by people living in the United States, but inspired by the ideology of the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL. Gun owners tend to be slightly more concerned about the threat of terrorist attacks, and — not surprisingly — less enthusiastic about gun control. Seventy percent of Americans who own a firearm said they were very worried about terrorists from abroad attacking the United States; among those whose households do not have guns, 54 percent said so. Only 12 percent of gun owners said they thought tougher gun laws would do “a lot” to prevent gun violence, compared to more than a third of respondents without guns in their homes. The divide along partisan lines is glaring. While 74 percent of Democrats think that stricter laws would help prevent gun violence to some degree, only 22 percent of Republicans do. Americans appear more inclined to believe that mental health problems are the root cause of America’s high rate of gun deaths. Forty-five percent of poll respondents said that better mental health screening and treatment would do a great deal to prevent violence, with another 32 percent saying that improving those measures would do some help but not a lot. About one in five said better screening and treatment would not have much of an impact. The nationwide telephone poll was conducted Dec. 4-8 among 1,275 adults. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus three percentage points for all adults, though larger for subgroups like gun owners. By WILSON ANDREWS and THOMAS KAPLAN See what the candidates are saying about gun control, immigration and more, and how their positions align with the American people. Giovanni Russonello is a member of The Times’s news surveys department. This is one of an occasional series of posts taking a deeper look at polling during this campaign cycle. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			