Hillary Clinton will unveil a plan to raise wages and create jobs on Friday during a visit to a manufacturing center in Detroit. “You’ll hear her full vision for the future of good paying jobs,” her policy director, Jake Sullivan, said on Thursday, previewing the address, which will touch on a wide range of topics, including free trade, clean-energy jobs, and how to address stagnant middle-class wages. The visit comes less than a week before Michigan holds its Democratic primary on March 8. Mrs. Clinton and Bernie Sanders are fighting to win voters in the state with an emphasis on job creation. On Wednesday, Mr. Sanders’s campaign manager, Jeff Weaver, called Mrs. Clinton “outsourcer in chief” because of her past support for trade agreements. “At a rally on Wednesday, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton told those gathered, ‘Don’t let anybody tell you we can’t make anything in American anymore,’ ” Mr. Weaver said. “What she failed to tell the audience is that she has been a consistent advocate of job-killing trade deals.” On a conference call with reporters, Mr. Sullivan said Mrs. Clinton had long believed that the North American Free Trade Agreement her husband signed into law needed to be renegotiated to have stronger provisions to protect American jobs and the environment. But, he added, “the answer can’t be to shut down all trade” and pointed to all the American-made products that are exported globally. Mrs. Clinton has said that the pillar of her presidential campaign is to create jobs and increase wages for the middle class. Her previous proposals have included government incentives for companies to share profits with employees and closing tax loopholes so corporations are not incentivized to move overseas. On Sunday, Mr. Sanders and Mrs. Clinton will be in Flint, Mich., for the Democratic debate, the first since Mrs. Clinton has racked up big wins in South Carolina and across the South on Tuesday, pulling well ahead of him. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			