BIRCH RUN, Mich. — Gov. John Kasich of Ohio released partial tax returns on Saturday showing that he and his wife earned more than $5 million from 2008 through 2014. Mr. Kasich follows two of his Republican opponents, Senators Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio, who released partial tax returns last weekend. Their actions, followed by Mr. Kasich’s disclosure on Saturday, add to the pressure on Donald J. Trump to release his returns. Mr. Kasich, who finished a day of campaigning in Michigan on Saturday by addressing a Republican Party dinner here in Saginaw County, released the first two pages of his federal tax returns for 2008 through 2014, a seven-year span. Those returns do not shed much light on Mr. Kasich’s tenure at Lehman Brothers, the investment bank where he worked as a managing director from 2001 to 2008, after he left Congress. The 2008 return covered Mr. Kasich’s last year at the doomed bank. Mr. Kasich and his wife, Karen, had adjusted gross income of about $1.3 million that year, when Lehman Brothers collapsed. But their income that year had already been known; Mr. Kasich released the 2008 return when he was running for governor in 2010. Over all, Mr. Kasich and his wife had adjusted gross income of about $5.1 million in the seven years covered by the returns. In addition to Mr. Kasich’s pay from his time as governor and from his job at Lehman Brothers, his campaign said that sum also included income from investments as well as from his work as a Fox News commentator, public speaker, board member and author. As he talks to voters, Mr. Kasich stresses his modest upbringing, telling audiences that he is the son of a mailman and the grandson of a coal miner. But he has also brought up his job at Lehman Brothers, joking about being blamed for the bank’s collapse, and he has recounted delivering lucrative paid speeches after leaving Congress. True to form, he recalled his blue-collar roots while campaigning in Traverse City, Mich., on Saturday morning. “I used to say to my father, ‘What do we think about the rich, Dad?’” Mr. Kasich said. “He said, ‘Johnny, we don’t hate the rich, we want to be the rich.’” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			