NASHUA, N.H. — Early in Jeb Bush’s presidential campaign, his brother’s presidency — and, specifically, the 2003 invasion of Iraq — tripped up Mr. Bush. Asked if, knowing what the nation now knows about the intelligence failures that helped lead to that war, he would still have invaded Iraq, Mr. Bush first said yes, then backpedaled, before finally saying that he had misunderstood the question. But on Wednesday, speaking to a breakfast crowd in New Hampshire, Mr. Bush seemed better prepared for a foreign policy question involving George W. Bush, the 43rd president, when a voter asked if he would have advised his brother to have done something different. “Wow, the power of hindsight is a power that leaders don’t have, right, Madam President? And it’s easy looking back to say, well I would have done it differently,” Jeb Bush said, before adding that while his brother “made mistakes,” he admired his “dogged determination” and “fortitude” when it came to foreign policy. “He didn’t read a poll and change his foreign policy,” he said. The best example, Jeb Bush added, was the so-called “surge,” the 43rd president’s 2007 decision to send more than 20,000 American combat troops into Iraq. “The blood and treasure of the most amazing fighting force ever created was not sacrificed in vain, because at the end of his tenure, the beginning of President Obama’s tenure, there was a stable — a fragile but stable Iraq — because there was an adjustment in the policy and it worked,” he said. Still, he added, his older brother did mention the mistakes. “Were there errors along the way in Iraq? Yeah, you bet,” Mr. Bush said. “There were errors of faulty intelligence that both Democrats and Republicans alike saw and believed.” He concluded: “So there were lessons in every presidency, not just 41 and 43, but I’d say 42 and 44 and all the others as well. But I’m proud of my brother’s service. He kept us safe.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			