Donald J. Trump continues to overheat the Republican Party’s speech on immigration. What is his latest protest against political correctness? “Anchor babies.” Explaining his logic as to why birthright citizens should be deported from the United States, Mr. Trump told Fox News on Tuesday night that they might not have a legal right to live in the country. “I’d much rather find out whether or not ‘anchor babies’ are citizens because a lot of people don’t think they are,” Mr. Trump said. The phrase is as offensive as the word “illegals” for many immigrants who come to America. In 2011, it was defined by the American Heritage Dictionary as, “A child born to a noncitizen mother in a country that grants automatic citizenship to children born on its soil, especially such a child born to parents seeking to secure eventual citizenship for themselves and often other members of their family.” But after protests from immigration advocacy groups who complained that the language is a demeaning slur, the dictionary labeled it as “offensive.” Forced to reckon with Mr. Trump’s policies, former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida — a moderate on immigration — echoed the phrase on Wednesday. While he did not agree to a constitutional amendment ending birthright citizenship, Mr. Bush said that better border security was needed to prevent pregnant women from sneaking into the country to deliver their children. “Greater enforcement so that you don’t have, you know, ‘anchor babies,’ as they’re described, coming into the country,” Mr. Bush said on Hugh Hewitt’s radio program. Democrats pounced on Mr. Bush for using the term, suggesting that he was lurching to the right as his poll numbers have sagged. One potential opponent did not let the slur slide. “They’re called babies,” Hillary Rodham Clinton posted on Twitter. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			