Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey has  ardently opposed raising the minimum wage in New Jersey,  but on Monday he hinted that his opposition might not be absolute. The Republican presidential candidate reiterated why he thought increasing the pay floor was a bad idea, arguing that it did not help move poor people into the middle class. He also said it was bad for businesses. Asked by CNBC about his position on the minimum wage, he said that he opposed raising the wage  to $15 an hour, but he did not rule out an increase to $10. “We’d have to talk about it,” Mr. Christie said. “But $15, it’s gonna destroy jobs.” New Jersey residents circumvented Mr. Christie, voting to raise the state’s minimum wage to $8.25 last year and allowing for subsequent annual increases tied to inflation. Republicans have largely resisted the idea as being bad for business, while Democrats contend that incomes are not keeping pace with the cost of living in the United States. The Obama administration has called for raising the minimum wage to $10.10 an hour. Mr. Christie’s suggestion that he might consider a higher minimum wage comes as he is struggling to gain traction in polls and is facing questions about his economic record in New Jersey. The state’s credit rating has been downgraded multiple times and job creation has lagged the rest of the country. “There’s been no miracle in New Jersey,” Mr. Christie said, suggesting that the state will have to grind out its economic progress. “New Jersey is three yards and a cloud of dust.” 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			