CHILMARK, Mass. —  President Obama’s musical tastes run from boomer to Beyoncé, with a streak of jazz and a nod to Sinatra. That at least is what he released Friday in his first-ever Spotify playlists, sharing a 20-song “daytime” list and another 20-song “evening” one. A White House blog post said the lists were “hand-created” by Mr. Obama. If the lists are a guide to how the president rocks out, his days are spent mostly in the 1950s and ’60s, with songs like Bob Dylan’s “Tombstone Blues,” Stevie Wonder’s “Another Star,” the Isley Brothers’ “Live It Up” and “Rock Steady” by Aretha Franklin. The Rolling Stones are represented with “Gimme Shelter,” and Bob Marley’s “So Much Trouble in the World” is a perfect title for a commander in chief. And “Ain’t Too Proud to Beg,” by the Temptations, is an interesting choice for a president who faces an uphill battle in Congress persuading members of his own party to approve his nuclear deal with Iran. There are a few more recent hits on the daytime playlist: “Paradise,” by Coldplay, and “Shake It Out,” by Florence and the Machine. But unlike Hillary Rodham Clinton, whose recent Spotify list was filled with current pop hits, Mr. Obama has no Katy Perry or Kelly Clarkson or Ariana Grande. Mr. Obama’s evening list continues the pattern, with Al Green’s “How Can You Mend a Broken Heart?” and selections from Frank Sinatra, Ray Charles, Miles Davis and Billie Holiday. But the president’s playlist also includes a Beyoncé song, “Superpower,” and one called “Stubborn Love,” by the Denver-based folk-rock group the Lumineers. He’s also got Nina Simone’s “Feeling Good,” which might be a reflection of the last two months of his presidency, which have featured a series of foreign policy achievements, falling unemployment rates and rising approval numbers in the polls. “Due to popular request, here are my vacation playlists,” Mr. Obama said on Twitter, adding, “What’s your favorite summer song?” The response on Twitter has been mostly positive. VentureBeat, a technology website, called the lists “Barack Obama’s ‘cool dad’ summer jams.” A journalist in Florida said Mr. Obama’s songs were “pretty groovy.” One person wrote, in all capital letters: “OMG. Obama has Superpower on his Spotify playlist.” The initial reaction is far more positive than the response to Mrs. Clinton’s list, which her presidential campaign released earlier this summer. In an interview on MSNBC, Alan Light, a music critic for Rolling Stone magazine, panned Mrs. Clinton’s list as “poll tested” and a gimmick. “It doesn’t feel real,” Mr. Light said of the playlist, which included campaign-friendly songs like “The Fighter” and “Believer” and “Happy” — all of which were released after Mrs. Clinton reached her 50s. “It doesn’t feel like anything Hillary Clinton actually listens to.” A version of this article appears in print on 08/15/2015, on page A14 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Presidential Tunes, Day and Night. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			