NORTH CHARLESTON, S.C. – Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, in his first visit to South Carolina since nine people died in the church shootings, chose to address the massacre by praising the people of the Charleston region for their unity rather than discussing the gun control issues or the Confederate battle flag debate that arose afterward. And Mr. Walker, who officially declared his candidacy for the Republican presidential nomination on Monday, made a point of not giving any attention to the man charged in the killings, Dylann Roof. “I’ll never say his name,” Mr. Walker said, as he briefly addressed the shootings before a crowd of about 200 people at a Harley-Davidson motorcycle dealership. “It was amazing to see the kind of leadership you provided for this country in what could have been a negative not just for you all, but for this country,” Mr. Walker said of the peaceful and discerning responses to the massacre. “You all showed how to bring people together in this community and this region and this state and in turn you did it for this country.” He also hailed the leadership of “my friend Nikki Haley,” the state’s Republican governor, who he cites frequently as an ally during his campaign visits to South Carolina. He did not touch on her successful effort to remove the Confederate flag from the state capitol grounds after the shooting. As a newly announced candidate, Mr. Walker has not had time yet to give policy speeches on issues like gun control or government responses to the mass shootings that have been occurring in the United States. He often mentions his support for gun owners and for laws allowing them to carry concealed weapons.  Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			