Facing a worsening fiscal crisis in Puerto Rico and a bailout-fatigued Congress, the Obama administration on Thursday will begin a major push to win passage of a broad rescue package to grant the commonwealth new bankruptcy protections and to aid its citizens with health and tax benefits. Antonio F. Weiss, counsel to Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew, is set to testify on President Obama’s proposal before the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee on Thursday. The plan falls well short of a direct federal bailout to recession-battered Puerto Rico, which is facing $72 billion in debts amid high unemployment and poverty rates. But it does represent a recognition by Mr. Obama that the situation on the island is dire — one senior official warned of a “humanitarian disaster” this winter if nothing is done — and a determination that Congress must have a hand in addressing it. After months of quietly advising the government of Puerto Rico on how to weather its financial woes, top officials said they had reached the limits of what the federal government could do unilaterally to help the commonwealth. There is also a clear political calculation underlying Mr. Obama’s decision to leave the matter in lawmakers’ laps. The prospect of rescuing Puerto Rico from its current predicament has been met with skepticism and even outright hostility by some Republicans, who consider it a free pass for decades of financial mismanagement. But the growing political influence of Puerto Ricans in politically competitive states including Florida, where many of them have settled in recent years, means that Republicans may have to think twice before rejecting the measures the White House is proposing.   
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			