Have Democrats duped themselves with their fixation on carried interest? Grover Norquist, the anti-tax crusader who founded Americans for Tax Reform, thinks they have. Democrats have pointed to a provision that allows private equity and hedge fund managers to pay lower tax rates as an embodiment of all that is unfair in the tax code. Now, both former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida and Donald J. Trump, two Republican presidential candidates, have issued tax proposals that target the loophole, presumably throwing liberals a bone. While Mr. Norquist, who pressures candidates to sign pledges against tax increases, has been against increasing carried interest tax for philosophical reasons, he said that killing the loophole would not be that big of a deal. “You guys can have carried interest; we’ll take a big cut in the corporate rate, and we’ll call it even,” Mr. Norquist said, referring to Democrats. “Carried interest doesn’t matter.” Mr. Norquist estimated that taxing carried interest, the income that fund managers make when investing other people’s money, like ordinary income might generate $3 billion in tax revenue over a decade. He said that he would happily give that up in exchange for slashing the corporate tax rate and cutting the top personal income rate to 25 percent, as Mr. Trump has proposed. Likening attacks on carried interest to a dog chasing a bus, Mr. Norquist said that, for Democrats, closing the loophole could be more trouble than it is worth. “You didn’t mean to catch the bus, you meant to whine about the bus,” he said. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			