Hillary Rodham Clinton’s decision to express her concerns about the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement was something of an imperative before Tuesday’s debate in Nevada, and a crucial moment in the race. For Mrs. Clinton, opposing the agreement pleased union leaders, some of whom have expressed skepticism about her commitment to organized labor prerogatives. But it meant not only breaking with President Obama, but also distancing herself from a deal she once characterized as a potential “gold standard” for trade agreements while she was secretary of state. Mrs. Clinton set the terms by which she could oppose the deal — the absence of focus on dealing with currency manipulation — back in April. But politically, her opposition came after Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, her main rival in public polls at the moment, had already drawn support from the left in part because of his long-held criticism of the deal. Mrs. Clinton, who talked positively about the deal in her memoir, “Hard Choices,” is now getting criticized for flip-flopping, but for doing so after a candidate has gained steam among progressives. “I’m continuing to learn about the details of the new Trans-Pacific Partnership, including looking hard at what’s in there to crack down on currency manipulation, which kills American jobs, and to make sure we’re not putting the interests of drug companies ahead of patients and consumers,” Mrs. Clinton said in a statement about the deal, the terms of which were announced on Monday. “But based on what I know so far, I can’t support this agreement.” That statement was not, as many political observers pointed out, an ironclad disavowal of the deal. It left open the possibility that, if something were to change in the terms, she could later support it. And this will be far from the last time she’s pushed to discuss it. But Mrs. Clinton faced a political deadline of sorts on her statement — with Mr. Sanders and Martin O’Malley, who also opposes the deal, certain to raise the issue at the debate, she needed to address it. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			