Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. said that he is continuing to search his soul about running for president, and he acknowledged a decision might come after it is logistically too late to make a successful bid. In an interview with America Magazine that was conducted last week and published on Monday, Mr. Biden said that his thinking about a run had not changed since his last public statements on the question. The vice president has expressed interest in making another run for the White House but has said that he is not sure if he is emotionally ready for the rigors of a campaign after the recent death of his son.  “It comes or it doesn’t,” Mr. Biden said of entering the fray for the Democratic Party’s nomination. “I’ve just got to be certain that if I do this, I’m able to look you in the eye and everyone else and say I’ve given all my passion and all my energy and I will not be distracted.” The vice president went on to explain that he is considering the impact that running for president would have on his family. The decision would not be based on what polling numbers say about the possibility of him winning, he said, but is more based on personal considerations.  “I just have to be comfortable that this would be good for the family,” Mr. Biden said, noting that his previous political efforts have all strengthened his family. Still, Mr. Biden remains realistic that the political calendar is moving forward and that he might run out of time.  “It’s just not quite there yet and it might not get there in time to make it feasible to run and succeed because there are certain windows that will close,” Mr. Biden said. “If that’s it, that’s it. It’s not like I can rush it.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			