Join us for New York primary live updates. BUFFALO — On the eve of New York’s primary, Donald J. Trump told a crowd here that he wanted to talk about something close to his heart. “I was down there, and I watched our police and our firemen, down on 7-Eleven, down at the World Trade Center, right after it came down,” Mr. Trump said on Monday evening. “And I saw the greatest people I’ve ever seen in action.” Mr. Trump did not seem to realize that he had invoked a chain of convenience stores, and the crowd did not seem to mind. He continued speaking without hesitation, recalling the bravery he witnessed after the attacks. But he quickly drew some attention on social media for misspeaking. Mr. Trump was addressing an enthusiastic crowd at an arena, the First Niagara Center, where he was introduced by the head coach of the Buffalo Bills, Rex Ryan. After recalling the Sept. 11 attacks, Mr. Trump explained that he wanted to talk about “the New York values that we all know so well” — offering a very different take on those values than Senator Ted Cruz. “Despite its problems, we love this state,” Mr. Trump said. “We know it’s going to come back. If I’m president, it’s going to come back so fast, you won’t even believe it.”
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			