President Obama will travel to Flint, Mich., on Wednesday to hear firsthand from residents about the public health crisis caused by contaminated water and to learn more about the highly criticized government response to the problem. The president is traveling there after an appeal from an 8-year-old girl, Mari Copeny, who asked to meet with the president when she went to Washington for a Flint hearing on Capitol Hill in March. Instead, the president will travel to Flint and meet with her there. Mr. Obama also plans to meet with Gov. Rick Snyder, a Republican, and Mayor Karen Weaver of Flint and to deliver an address before about 1,000 people at a high school in a predominantly African-American neighborhood. Some have suggested that the city’s water crisis was allowed to fester because it had happened in a poorer community neglected by government agencies. “I think the president is concerned that there was a failure on the part of government officials to ensure that the people of Flint were protected, and there’s a lot of work that’s gone into determining exactly how and why that happened,” Josh Earnest, the White House spokesman, said on Tuesday. “But I think the fact that something like this happened in a community that is so economically disadvantaged is something that troubles the president.” This year, the president visited Detroit without stopping in Flint, drawing some criticism. This time, the president is visiting Flint while most public schools in Detroit have been closed after hundreds of teachers called in sick in protest over pay and funding.
Follow the New York Times Politics and Washington on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter. Follow the New York Times Politics and Washington on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			