Senator Ted Cruz is under fire from Senator Marco Rubio’s campaign, which accuses him and his campaign of employing more “dirty tricks” ahead of the Republican caucuses in Hawaii on Tuesday and spreading false rumors that Mr. Rubio is dropping out of the race. Emails that appeared to have come from the Cruz campaign were sent to his supportersÂ in Hawaii promoting a CNN report saying some of Mr. Rubio’s advisers seeÂ no path for him to win the Republican presidential nomination, and suggesting that he might leave the race before the March 15 primary in Florida.Â A spokesman for Mr. Rubio said that report is false. “Senator Cruz is up to his dirty tricks again spreading false rumors and lies,” said Joe Pounder, a spokesman for Mr. Rubio. In February,Â Mr. Cruz was forced to apologize to Ben Carson, who dropped out of the Republican race last week, after his campaign told caucusgoers in Iowa on the day of the voting that Mr. Carson was planning to quit the race. The Cruz campaign said at the time that it was just relaying information from news reports, but later it acknowledged that it was wrong to spread bad information. Both Mr. Carson and Donald J. Trump, the Republican front-runner, used the episode to brand Mr. Cruz as an unscrupulous politician who cost Mr. Carson votes in Iowa. The email that was said to have been sent from the Cruz campaign, which was forwarded by Mr. Rubio’s campaign, quotes Hawaii caucus voters as saying that they did not want to waste a vote on Mr. Rubio because he was likely to drop out. There are 19 delegates at stake in Hawaii on Tuesday. But the Cruz campaignÂ said it had nothing to do with the email, asserting that volunteers in Hawaii sent itÂ without permission. The volunteers have been instructed by the campaign’s lawyers to stop using itsÂ logo and remove any similar posts from social media accounts. “The at-issue email and social media posting was not sanctioned by the Cruz for President campaign,” said Alice Stewart, a spokeswoman for Mr. Cruz. “The campaign became aware of the email this morning by press accounts, and upon investigation learned that some volunteers in Hawaii were involved in the posting.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. A version of this article appears in print on 03/09/2016, on page A13 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Cruz Campaign Is Accused of Spreading Rumors That Rubio Is Withdrawing. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			