MIAMI —  Senator Marco Rubio of Florida said he had come to regret what became one of the most sensational moments of his campaign: his schoolyard taunting of Donald J. Trump. Mr. Rubio said the episode — in which he ridiculed the real estate developer as small-handed, orange-faced and wimpy — upset his children and was something he would not do again. “At the end of the day, you know what? It’s not something I’m entirely proud of,” Mr. Rubio said at a town-hall-style event for MSNBC that was taped on Wednesday here at Florida International University.  “My kids were embarrassed by it and I, you know, if I had to do it again I wouldn’t,” Mr. Rubio added. The question came from a young man in the audience who asked the senator bluntly, “How can you sacrifice basic Christian principles” with such personal and gratuitous attacks? Pressed by the host, NBC’s Chuck Todd, Mr. Rubio was more reflective than he tends to be in most public appearances, saying that he thought that Mr. Trump had degraded the tone of the entire presidential race.  “I don’t want to be that,” Mr. Rubio said, referring to someone who mocks and insults. “If that’s what it takes to become president of the United States, then I don’t want to be president.”  Mr. Rubio said he was not, however, embarrassed for attacking Mr. Trump on his business record, which the senator has said is riddled with instances of defrauding working-class people. “Not on the other charges, not on the other things,” Mr. Rubio said. “This time the stakes are not a worthless $36,000 degree at Trump University. The stakes are the greatest nation on earth.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. A version of this article appears in print on 03/10/2016, on page A17 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Second Thoughts; Rubio Says He Regrets Mocking Trump, a Move That Embarrassed His Children. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			