HENNIKER, N.H. — Ted Cruz is feeling the Bern. Sort of. At a town-hall-style event in New Hampshire on Wednesday, the Texas senator identified Bernie Sanders as an unlikely kindred spirit while describing the failings of Washington. “Actually in diagnosing the problem, I agree in many ways with Bernie Sanders,” Mr. Cruz said. “Media folks, they’re very puzzled when they say, ‘Gosh, Ted, you sound exactly like Bernie saying it is all big money and lobbyists and corruption.’ Well, you know what? That’s right, it is. Washington is corrupt.” Mr. Cruz repeated a familiar campaign refrain: that the country’s greatest political divide is not between Republicans and Democrats but between “career politicians” from both parties and the people they represent. Eventually, Mr. Cruz did get around to the caveat: He and Mr. Sanders, whose platform includes myriad tax hikes and tuition-free college, disagree on virtually every policy remedy. “His solution is, ‘So we need even more Washington, we need the government to take over even more of the economy and our lives,’” Mr. Cruz said. “I think that solution is nuts.” Mr. Sanders has long been a target of gentle ridicule from Mr. Cruz on the stump, though his most pointed vitriol is almost always reserved for President Obama and Hillary Clinton. After his victory in the Iowa caucuses victory on Monday, Mr. Cruz allowed himself a peek at the vote tallies across the aisle. “The Democrats here seem to be in a virtual tie between one candidate who admits he’s a socialist and the other candidate who pretends she’s not,” Mr. Cruz said to laughs. “I wish them both luck.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			