For Donald J. Trump’s aspirations to become the Republican Party’s presidential nominee, Tuesday night’s results in Indiana could be, finally, the end of the beginning.  Nearly three months after Mr. Trump won the primaries in New Hampshire and South Carolina, if he wins on Tuesday night, he could effectively lock in a path toward achieving the 1,237 delegates needed to clinch the nomination by the beginning of June.  Mr. Trump’s main remaining rival, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, has described Indiana as a crucial state. He has maintained that there is still a path forward even with a loss, as most public polls suggest is likely, and he has vowed to keep going until California votes on June 7. But even Mr. Cruz’s allies acknowledge that a loss would effectively obliterate any remaining path. The anti-Trump forces, which once roared loudly, appear to be petering out. For the most part, groups opposed to Mr. Trump did not start buying television airtime to run ads against him in the relatively cheap Indiana markets until the last two weeks, giving him room to make a push with voters at a string of rallies in the last few days.  A win in a state with a more conservative electorate, whose governor endorsed Mr. Cruz, would allow Mr. Trump to look toward the convention and leave his mark as planning gets underway now, and for the general election.  As for the Democrats, Hillary Clinton and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont appear to be in a closer contest. Mr. Sanders, despite laying off hundreds of campaign workers and facing a substantial delegate gap, might feel emboldened by a win. Still, Mr. Sanders’s path is also essentially gone, short of a vast amount of support from the superdelegates whose backing he once frowned on. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			