MANCHESTER, N.H. – Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, smarting from weeks of negative commercials against him in New Hampshire, has struck back at several Republican opponents in animated appearances on the campaign trail this week. One rival has drawn especially biting attacks: Senator Marco Rubio of Florida. Mr. Christie has long criticized Mr. Rubio for lacking executive experience. But in recent days he has dialed up his attacks, repeatedly deriding Mr. Rubio as a political lightweight in a tone that verges on contempt. In an appearance on Boston Herald Radio on Wednesday, Mr. Christie dismissed Mr. Rubio as “a 44-year-old first-term senator who’s never accomplished anything,” and ridiculed an interviewer’s suggestion that Republicans could rally around Mr. Rubio as an alternative to Donald J. Trump. “The only thing that he’s ever done in the United States Senate is write an amnesty bill with Chuck Schumer,” Mr. Christie said. “And then as soon as the heat got high, he ran away and hid and now claims he had nothing to do with it.” The Wednesday broadside caps a week of hard swipes from Mr. Christie against Mr. Rubio, and may signal to Republican elites – who have grown impatient with the fractious primary race – that uniting party support behind one establishment-friendly candidate remains a distant prospect. Mr. Christie called Mr. Rubio immature over the weekend for joking about the blizzard that struck the mid-Atlantic (Mr. Rubio said the snow would at least freeze up federal regulators for a few days). The governor repeated the criticism in a string of campaign strops in New Hampshire, mocking Mr. Rubio at length for missing important votes in the Senate.  No other Republican has attracted such criticism from Mr. Christie. On the radio Wednesday, Mr. Christie added that while it was too soon to rally behind any one candidate, he considered former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida and Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio to be his friends, and “very good governors.” Mr. Christie and Mr. Rubio are competing for an overlapping set of voters in the early primary states, and a “super PAC” backing Mr. Rubio has spent millions on attack ads in New Hampshire aimed at Mr. Christie. And Mr. Rubio has described Mr. Christie as having a weak record on issues of importance to conservatives.  Joe Pounder, a spokesman for the Rubio campaign, said in response to Mr. Christie’s radio interview that the governor “must be frustrated that conservatives aren’t rallying around his record of supporting abortion rights, Planned Parenthood, gun control, Common Core, and Obama Supreme Court picks.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. A version of this article appears in print on 01/28/2016, on page A18 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Under Fire in Ads, Christie Saves Scorn For Attacks on Rubio. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			