Bill Clinton, just off his first solo events of his wife’s campaign with two rallies in New Hampshire on Monday, will head to Iowa on Thursday. The former president will make stops in Cedar Rapids and Dubuque, his first events without Hillary Clinton in the state. Mr. Clinton did not compete in Iowa in his 1992 campaign, when the state’s popular Democratic senator, Tom Harkin, was also running. He campaigned heavily for Mrs. Clinton ahead of the 2008 caucus when she finished in third place behind Barack Obama and John Edwards.  Mr. Clinton introduced Mrs. Clinton at a Democratic dinner in October, when the singer Katy Perry also performed, but he has not held his own events since 2008.  On Monday in New Hampshire, Mr. Clinton stuck to his script praising about his wife’s record and commitment to the middle class. As he shook hands with a lunchtime crowd at the Puritan Backroom restaurant in Manchester, CNN broadcast on a TV overhead with the headline “Trump blasts Clintons over sexism.” But Mr. Clinton declined to comment on Mr. Trump’s remarks. “It’s great to be back,” he said several times as he went from table to table shaking hands in the state that made him the Comeback Kid in 1992. His coming appearances in Iowa will correspond with several Clinton friends crisscrossing the state. The actors Lena Dunham, Jamie Lee Curtis and Tony Goldwyn, as well as Mr. Clinton’s friend, Gov. Terry McAuliffe of Virginia, will also campaign for Mrs. Clinton in Iowa in the coming weeks.  Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			