His attendance record under scrutiny, Senator Marco Rubio returned to Washington on Friday to do something he doesn’t do so often anymore: vote. Mr. Rubio, Florida’s junior senator, was present for a roll call to keep the government running and avert a default in the wee hours of the morning. He voted against the measure, which passed and will increase spending by $80 billion over two years and raise the federal debt ceiling. He was joined by two other Republican senators running for president in opposing the measure, Ted Cruz of Texas and Rand Paul of Kentucky. Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, also a Republican candidate, voted for it. The vote, which took place around 3 a.m., forced Mr. Rubio to cancel a campaign appearance in Iowa on Friday morning. But his other events were still scheduled as planned, a spokesman said. Mr. Rubio has the Senate’s worst attendance record this year, missing about a third of votes. Jeb Bush has pressed the issue on the campaign trail, and called on the senator to resign in the debate on Wednesday.  But Mr. Rubio’s no vote on Friday could be considered good politics for the senator. Federal spending and the debt ceiling are major issues to his party’s right wing, particularly in a primary. Mr. Rubio also has returned to Washington recently for other votes he deemed important, including an attempt to strip funding from Planned Parenthood and another that would have sped the deportation of undocumented immigrants who have committed crimes. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			