Republican presidential candidates will not give opening statements at the next debate, hosted by the Fox Business Network, but they will have more time to respond to  questions — 90 seconds in their initial answer, and a 60-second rebuttal — according to an internal logistics memo the network sent to the campaigns on Friday. The candidates will also be allowed 30-second closing statements, said the memo, which was obtained by The New York Times and confirmed by Fox Business Network.  The memo comes in the wake of Wednesday evening’s CNBC debate, which angered the Republican National Committee and the candidates, for what they said was the combative tone of the questions, which party officials said did not focus on the economy as much as they had expected from a business news network. The Republican campaigns have scheduled a meeting in Washington on Sunday evening to try to regain control of the debate process and force the networks to address their concerns. But the Fox Business Network, which started in 2007 and is the sister network to the Fox News Channel, said it has not had any conversations with either the campaigns or the national committee; it said that Cherie Grzech, senior director of Fox News’s Washington bureau and politics, sent the memo as part of the network’s routine debate planning process. The 90-second response and 60-second rebuttal format at the Fox Business Network debate, scheduled for Nov. 10 in Milwaukee, are longer than in the first Republican debate in August, hosted by Fox News Channel, in which the candidates were given 60 seconds for an initial response and 30 seconds for a rebuttal. Candidates in the first debate, which broke rating records, also did not deliver an opening statement.   Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			