SARASOTA, Fla. – Summoning a bit of Donald J. Trump’s gloom, Senator Marco Rubio on Monday told an audience here that half of young Americans believe that the American Dream is dead, a warning sign he said should rouse voters to seek a new direction in 2016. Mr. Rubio cited unnamed public opinion surveys in which millenials say that they believe the American Dream no longer applies to them. “This is a warning sign for America – a sign that what’s at stake in this election is our identity as a special nation,” he said at a marine supply business here where he discussed economic and tax policy. “Here in America, anyone who works hard can leave their children better off than themselves,” he continued. “That is the real American Dream. But today, it is dying. It’s not dying because our people have changed. They haven’t. It’s dying because both parties in Washington, quite frankly, both parties have let us down.” Mr. Rubio’s words were striking not just because they channeled Mr. Trump, a rival for the Republican presidential nomination, but because they seemed so at odds with the optimistic and aspirational message Mr. Rubio has offered voters. That message, by and large, dwells on what Mr. Rubio describes as the unique and special character of America. But lately he has been more negative, saying for example that the country is in decline. He has also adopted a sharper edge with rivals like Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, whom he attacked again on Monday. He did not mention Mr. Cruz by name but went on at length about unnamed Republicans who, like Mr. Cruz, have proposed a form of a flat tax called a “value added tax,” or VAT. Mr. Rubio said that such a tax was nothing more than a liberal scheme supported by Mr. Obama and Nancy Pelosi, the House Democratic leader, to expand government’s reach. “No candidate who supports this tax can claim to be in favor of ‘abolishing’ the I.R.S.,” Mr. Rubio said, in another dig at Mr. Cruz, who has repeatedly called for dismantling the agency. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			