WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — Jeb Bush, the man who once promised to run for president joyfully, on Monday added a new social media twist to his campaign — Jeb Bush 2.0 will even take selfies joyfully. Asked at a luncheon here how the selfie has changed modern campaigning, Mr. Bush offered a dry retort. “The selfie is now the 11th amendment of the Bill of Rights,” he said. “It’s inspired by our framers and founders, apparently. It is a requirement that you take one, and I do it with great joy in my heart.” But Mr. Bush, who had spent his early Monday at a restaurant in Hialeah mobbed by eager selfie-takers — before being mobbed by the Miami press corps, who at one point he admonished by saying, “No violence” — wasn’t done just yet. “Look, it wasn’t that long ago that people wanted signatures on things, and now, forget that,” he said, before mimicking modern voters: “I want my damn selfie. I’m not leaving until I get it.” He said he hoped that voters had “a long enough arm” — “Or I will take over.” And he added some thoughts on selfie etiquette. “Just for the record, young people do it better than older people,” Mr. Bush said, before using his outstretched right arm to demonstrate proper selfie technique. “It’s cooler to do it diagonally rather than straight up, remember that, and it’s better to do it higher than lower, because you look skinnier.” And after the event, Mr. Bush gamely posed for more selfies, of course. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			