In the final days of the year and the first days of the next one, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas will battle for voters in Iowa in the lead-up to the caucuses. Last week, Mr. Cruz, who is surging in national polls but especially in recent surveys of Iowa, announced his “Cruzin’ to Caucus” bus trip from Jan. 4 through 9. Mr. Rubio, who has spent comparatively less time there, was scheduled to hold a three-day bus tour of his own, beginning Monday. But his campaign announced Monday that it had rescheduled the first leg of the tour. Whether or not Mr. Rubio ends up in Iowa, the tour was an excuse to unveil an important endorsement — over the weekend, his campaign announced a special guest, Representative Trey Gowdy of South Carolina, who has steered the Republican-led investigation into the 2012 terrorist attacks on a United States diplomatic post in Benghazi, Libya, when Hillary Clinton was secretary of state.  Mr. Gowdy and Mr. Rubio share an adviser in Terry Sullivan, a strategist based in South Carolina, who was a consultant on Mr. Gowdy’s race in 2010. But Mr. Gowdy can provide a lift for Mr. Rubio in South Carolina as well as serve as a crucial conservative voice to vouch for him with Iowa caucusgoers.  Mr. Rubio has faced questions about the depths of his conservatism since his work in 2013 on an immigration overhaul effort, and Mr. Gowdy’s endorsement appears to be an effort by the campaign to combat those questions. The person with the biggest megaphone in the race, Donald J. Trump, sought to undercut that endorsement on Sunday, faulting Mr. Gowdy on the Sunday news shows for how he handled Mrs. Clinton’s testimony before the House committee in October. But unlike others whom Mr. Trump has savaged in interviews or on Twitter, Mr. Gowdy will be tougher to dismantle for conservatives.  To that point, Matt Moore, the chairman of the South Carolina Republican Party, posted on Twitter on Sunday afternoon that Mr. Gowdy “is a public servant in every sense of the word: humble, focused, serious.” “Attack him and you’re attacking all South Carolinians,” he said. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			