Jeb Bush will end the suspense on June 15. The former Florida governor and likely presidential candidate teased on Thursday morning that he would make an announcement on that date. Aides to Mr. Bush said he would speak at the Kendall Campus of Miami Dade College. The choice of location highlights an issue Mr. Bush has focused on for years: education. “Coming soon…” Mr. Bush posted on Twitter, with a link to a page to sign up for more information. Coming soon…//t.co/t9HbLSu2ve — Jeb Bush (@JebBush) June 4, 2015  Mr. Bush has been aggressively raising money for his “super PAC” and has come under increasing pressure to declare his candidacy. But once he declares, he cannot raise money for the outside group. By releasing the date of the announcement, he may be trying to end the calls for some kind of investigation into his fund-raising efforts. Several of Mr. Bush’s aides, who will soon be on opposite sides of a campaign finance-imposed firewall between the campaign and the super PAC, are meeting this week in Miami.  Mr. Bush plans to use his super PAC for several campaign operations, although it is not yet clear exactly what Right to Rise, the name of the group, will do beyond airing ads. Mike Murphy, Mr. Bush’s longtime confidante and top strategist, will be at the super PAC, while another top adviser, Sally Bradshaw, is expected to work on the campaign.  Under campaign finance laws, the super PAC and the campaign cannot coordinate. Mr. Bush is expected to have more super PAC money than any of the other Republicans when the filings are made public next month.
Follow the New York Times Politics and Washington on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter. Follow the New York Times Politics and Washington on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			