Representative Trey Gowdy, the South Carolina Republican who is chairman of the House subcommittee investigating the 2012 attacks in Benghazi, Libya, on Wednesday released a copy of a  subpoena sent to Hillary Rodham Clinton, a day after she seemed to suggest in an interview that a subpoena was never issued. But aides to Mrs. Clinton said on Wednesday evening that she had been responding to a specific question that was “not accurate” and that mis Mrs. Clinton’s comment came in a tense exchange with CNN’s Brianna Keilar over the private email server Mrs. Clinton used for both work and personal communications while she was the secretary of state during President Obama’s first term. When Ms. Keilar raised the issue of the subpoena, Mrs. Clinton interrupted: “You know, you’re starting with so many assumptions that are — I’ve never had a subpoena. There is — again, let’s take a deep breath here. Everything I did was permitted by law and regulation. I had one device. When I mailed anybody in the government, it would go into the government system.” “Now I didn’t have to turn over anything,” she said. “I chose to turn over 55,000 pages because I wanted to go above and beyond what was expected of me because I knew the vast majority of everything that was official already was in the State Department system. And now I think it’s kind of fun. People get a real-time behind-the-scenes look at what I was emailing about and what I was communicating about.” In a statement late Wednesday afternoon, Mr. Gowdy said he had not sought to make his subcommitee’s subpoenas public previously, “but after Secretary Clinton falsely claimed the committee did not subpoena her, I have no choice in order to correct the inaccuracy.” “The committee immediately subpoenaed Clinton personally after learning the full extent of her unusual email arrangement with herself, and would have done so earlier if the State Department or Clinton had been forthcoming that State did not maintain custody of her records and only Secretary Clinton herself had her records when Congress first requested them,” he added. Mrs. Clinton’s aides did not immediately respond Wednesday to a request for comment. There have been several inquiries into the terrorist attacks on the American consulate in Benghazi on Sept. 11, 2012, which killed four Americans, including the ambassador to Libya. Mrs. Clinton has described these inquiries as partisan witch hunts. But the CNN transcript of the exchange, which seemed to bolster Mr. Gowdy’s point, appears to have been truncated. In the video of the exchange, Ms. Keilar can be heard asking whether Mrs. Clinton was suggesting that her predecessors deleted emails while “facing” a subpoena. A spokesman for Mrs. Clinton, Nick Merrill, said she was reacting to that specific question, pointing out that the emails were deleted in the fall of 2014, and the subpeona didn’t arrive until March 2015.  “She was asked about her decision to not retain her personal emails after providing all those that were work-related, and the suggestion was made that a subpoena was pending at that time,” Mr. Merrill said. “That was not accurate.”    He added that “the subpoena asked for documents pertaining to Libya and the attacks on our facility in Benghazi, documents which, along with tens of thousands of others, she had already given to the Department of State.”  
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			