Anticipating huge public demand for a glimpse of Pope Francis during his visit to Congress on Sept. 24, Speaker John A. Boehner said Wednesday that the speech would be broadcast live to those gathered on the West Front of the Capitol, with the possibility that the pope himself would make an appearance outside after his remarks. “Given the unprecedented nature of his visit, Pope Francis’ address to a joint meeting of Congress will be broadcast live to the members of the public on the West Front of the Capitol,” Mr. Boehner said in a press release. “In addition, Pope Frances has expressed an interest in making a brief appearance on the West Front.” Aides said the setup will be similar to a presidential inauguration, with large screens positioned along the mall for public viewing. They said access, ticketing and other logistical details would be announced later. The pope’s speech to a joint meeting of Congress will be in the House chamber, which can hold hundreds of House members, senators, guests, dignitaries, staff members and the news media as it does for the president’s annual State of the Union address and other speeches by foreign leaders. But it has nowhere near the room to meet the likely demand Congressional leaders will face for an invitation to what promises to be a major event. “The visit of Pope Francis to the U.S. Capitol is a historic moment for the country,” said Mr. Boehner, a lifelong Catholic who invited the pope in March. “We look forward to welcoming Pope Francis and Americans from all walks of life to our Capitol on Sept. 24.” Follow the New York Times Politics and Washington on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			