The American public isn’t paying much attention as the deadline looms to fund the government and avoid a government shutdown. Yet, there is strong bipartisan agreement that it is unacceptable for members of Congress to threaten a government shutdown as a bargaining tactic, and most Americans think Planned Parenthood should continue to receive government funding, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll.  The nationwide survey found that Congressional Republicans have more to lose in this recent budget fight. About four in 10 Americans say they will blame Republicans should a shutdown occur, nearly three in 10 Americans would blame the president and Democrats in Congress, while two in 10 would fault both parties.  Speaker John A. Boehner, who announced on Friday that he would resign late next month, said on Sunday that he expected that Congress would vote to fund the government by the Wednesday evening deadline. This would put aside the sticking point of government funding for Planned Parenthood for now, setting up another budget showdown ahead of the Dec. 11 deadline.   On balance, Americans have a favorable opinion of Planned Parenthood, though it divides sharply along party lines. Forty percent of the public (including most Democrats) rate the women’s health organization positively, while 27 percent (including most Republicans) hold a negative opinion of it. Republican women have a more favorable opinion than Republican men, but still only about three  in 10 have a positive opinion.  Over all, 55 percent of Americans (including most Democrats and independents) support government funding for Planned Parenthood.  Yet, two-thirds of Republicans stand with a group of conservative members of Congress who say such funding should not continue. Even a majority of those who oppose government funding do not think the issue is worth risking a government shutdown. A Quinnipiac University poll conducted Sept. 17-21, however, found that seven in 10 Americans over all oppose shutting down the government over federal funding of Planned Parenthood.   The Times/CBS News telephone poll was conducted on landlines and cellphones Sept. 23-27 with 1,000 adults and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 4 percentage points.  
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			