Congress has two weeks to find a way to keep the government open past Sept. 30 or risk lurching into another shutdown with its attendant disruptions in government services and damaging economic consequences. Hoping to smooth the way for an eventual spending bill, House Republicans are set to vote later this week on a set of abortion-related measures. One would cut off federal funding to any Planned Parenthood affiliate that performs abortions and a second would impose criminal penalties on health care providers who don’t give treatment to a baby that survives an abortion attempt. Neither would be expected to progress very far in the Senate, which is preparing to consider its own measure prohibiting abortions after 20 weeks. But the flurry of action on abortion restrictions is intended to give Republicans a platform to register their outrage over Planned Parenthood after a series of undercover sting videos suggested the organization acted illegally in selling fetal tissue to researchers for a profit, a charge the group vehemently denies. In the wake of the videos, some conservatives in the House and in the Senate have said they will not vote for any government funding bill that includes money for Planned Parenthood, which could trigger an impasse that would result in the second shutdown in two years. Republican leaders are hoping that the separate votes defuse the situation and clear the way for a spending measure that keeps the government open through the end of 2015. But with time off for religious holidays and a high-profile visit by Pope Francis, Congress has only a handful of days to act, meaning the fiscal drama is likely to go down to the final act yet again. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			