Underscoring how concentrated political money is dominating the early months of the 2016 primary season, several “super PACs” backing Republican candidates raised the bulk of their money from only a handful of donors or families, according to Federal Election Commission disclosures filed on Friday. These donors act as the equivalent of angel investors, in essence providing the bulk of the money behind a candidate in the hopes that they will take off during the primary battles ahead. Conservative Solutions PAC, which is supporting Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, raised $16 million during the first six months of the year. But $12.5 million came from just four donors: the billionaire auto dealer Norman Braman; the tech investor Larry Ellison; Laura Perlmutter, wife of Isaac Perlmutter, a prominent entertainment executive; and a horse stable owned by the health care executive Benjamin Leon Jr. Likewise, Unintimidated PAC, a group backing Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, boasted $20 million in donations, the vast majority from a handful of donors, mostly in Wisconsin. But $13.5 million came from just four donors: the roofing billionaire Diane Hendricks; the Ricketts family of Nebraska and Illinois; the New York investor Len Blavatnik; and the Uihlein family of Illinois.  The super PAC backing Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor, raised almost all of its money — about $3 million — from the poultry magnate Ronnie Cameron. Several super PACs backing Senator Ted Cruz of Texas and Rick Perry, the state’s former governor, were in essence controlled by a single donor. One pro-Cruz super PAC, Keep the Promise II, received a single contribution: $10 million from a businessman, Toby Neugebauer, currently the second-largest Republican contributor in the campaign. The biggest? The billionaire investor Robert Mercer, who contributed $11 million to yet another super PAC aligned with Mr. Cruz, Keep the Promise I. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			