As the Republican Party frets about how Donald Trump could affect its first presidential debate, each of the 16 presidential campaigns on Wednesday received critical guidelines from Fox News, the cable channel that will host and broadcast the August 6 debate. To qualify for the debate each candidate must place in the top 10 “of an average of the five most recent national polls as recognized by Fox News” by August 4th at 5 p.m. Eastern Standard Time, according to a memo that Fox News sent to the Republican candidates. The memo, a copy of which was obtained by The New York Times, explained other details, including that all Facebook questions submitted during the debate would be screened by the Fox News editorial team and that each candidate will be assigned a producer  during their stay in Cleveland. (Fox News did not respond to requests for comment.) Fox News, the high-rated cable news channel owned by Rupert Murdoch, wields enormous influence among the Republican Party’s base and has been the arbiter charged with setting the all-important debate criteria. Whether the RNC brass wants Mr. Trump included or not, his current poll numbers would easily secure him a place under these measurements. Other candidates such as Ben Carson and Carly Fiorina would likely fall short. The memo also included mundane planning information for the debate which will be moderated by Fox News hosts Bret Baier, Megyn Kelly and Chris Wallace: Each campaign can bring only one vehicle into the Quicken Loans Arena, where the debate will take place; each campaign will receive 15 credentials for the spin room and 10, including the candidate, for the backstage holding room; qualifying candidates must have filed appropriate FEC paperwork and paid all necessary filing fees. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			