In Hillary Rodham Clinton’s thick campaign finance report for the first three months of her 2016 race, more than 300 people were paid for work on her second national run. Fewer than 15 of them appear to have come from the ranks of Ready for Hillary, the “super PAC” that tried to harness early energy behind Mrs. Clinton and develop a list of supporters in the two years before she became a candidate and which dominated much of the early chatter after she left the State Department. The group has been a source of mixed emotions with Mrs. Clinton’s circle of advisers. Several people close to Mrs. Clinton were chagrined when the group came into existence, believing that, among other concerns, it would only make people view her through a political lens well before she was ready to announce a decision about a 2016 bid. But others, including people like the long-serving Clinton adviser Minyon Moore, saw value in the group’s work, and Mrs. Clinton came to embrace it. The group’s supporter list was acquired by the campaign six weeks after Mrs. Clinton announced her candidacy. In the spring, the campaign brought on Adam Parkhomenko, the Ready for Hillary co-founder and a former aide from Mrs. Clinton’s Senate office, to work on a grass-roots job. Another handful of people were hired at that time as well. At the time, a campaign aide made clear that some people from the political action committee would be interviewed, but not all could expect jobs. Still, several people involved with the super PAC, which wound down its work once her campaign began, had hoped to work on the race in some capacity. At the time, the expectation among Ready for Hillary supporters was that most of them would play a role. The number of Ready for Hillary staff members who tried to get jobs and didn’t is unclear. Among those who interviewed early for a job was Seth Bringman, who handled day-to-day press for Ready for Hillary. After waiting for many weeks to hear back, Mr. Bringman ultimately moved back to Ohio, where he had worked before, and is now a public relations consultant there. Mr. Bringman declined to comment but confirmed he had moved. Mrs. Clinton’s aides declined to comment. Also absent from the filings is Craig Smith, a former political director from Bill Clinton’s White House who joined Ready for Hillary as a senior adviser in the first half of 2013, and who was seen as lending a more senior voice to the group early. Mr. Smith declined comment, but is said to be in discussions with the campaign about a role of some kind. Another senior adviser to Ready for Hillary, Tracy Sefl, has been a surrogate for the campaign and currently lives in Chicago, advising other clients. The group played a role in lining up support from elected officials behind Mrs. Clinton, including in Iowa, where she received two endorsements on Friday. Jerry Crawford, an Iowa operative who worked with Ready for Hillary and has informally helped the current campaign, said the group was “phenomenal.” “If there are people who worked for Ready for Hillary who can help her become president, they’ll be hired,” Mr. Crawford said. An earlier version of this post gave the incorrect name of an Iowa operative who worked for Ready for Hillary. It is Jerry Crawford, not Jack Crawford.  Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			