Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, appearing on NBC’s “Late Night With Seth Meyers” on Monday, tried to laugh off his provocative essay from 1972 about gender roles and sexuality that recently surfaced and stirred controversy because of his suggestion that women fantasize about being gang-raped. Mr. Sanders, who is seeking the 2016 Democratic presidential nomination, stiffened a little when Mr. Meyers brought up the essay and noted that Mr. Sanders had already disavowed it as satire and “a bad ‘50 Shades of Grey.’” But then Mr. Sanders chuckled as Mr. Meyers teased him for not continuing to write in that vein, because he could have been “rolling in cash” given the success of the “50 Shades” brand. “No, it was bad fiction — I learned my lesson — I think I could make a good president, but I write fiction pretty poorly,” Mr. Sanders said to laughter and applause from the audience. While some Democrats – including, privately, advisers to another candidate, Hillary Rodham Clinton – have expressed bewilderment over the 1972 essay, Mr. Meyers moved on quickly to another creative endeavor in Mr. Sanders’s past: his participation in a 1980s folk album. Mr. Meyers played part of one song in which Mr. Sanders could be heard warbling tunelessly.  “Big mistake,” Mr. Sanders said about the album. “So now we have learned that I do bad fiction and bad music. But I do have some other attributes.” Most of the interview was substantive, dealing with Mr. Sanders’s positions on eliminating tuition at public colleges, ensuring health care for all Americans, and raising taxes on wealthy Americans and large corporations. The studio audience frequently broke into applause at his remarks, and Mr. Meyers struck a decidedly positive tone about the senator’s bid for the White House. “Some have tried to frame you as this fringe candidate, but a lot of the things you believe are things that the majority of Americans believe,” Mr. Meyers said, citing Mr. Sanders’s support for raising the minimum wage to $15 an hour. Mr. Sanders, 73, has been drawing unexpectedly large crowds over the last week to rallies and town hall-style meetings in Iowa, New Hampshire, Minnesota, and Vermont. He also has been moving up in public opinion polls about the Democratic presidential field (though remaining far behind Mrs. Clinton). Mr. Meyers started off the interview by complimenting Mr. Sanders’s well-combed hair. Then he showed a photograph of the senator – who is known for not being a stereotypically blow-dried politician – with his white hair in a messy frizz. “That was after the electric shock,” Mr. Sanders joked. So, readers, do you think the appearance will put the Sanders essay issue to rest? Is laughter the best medicine — or does it risk not taking rape seriously? Add your thoughts on Facebook. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			