Though the usual early-morning risers were already walking their dogs and stretching their legs as they strolled along the East River, this was not a typical Saturday on Roosevelt Island. At the southern end of the island, the residents found themselves bumping into hundreds of supporters of Hillary Rodham Clinton waiting in line hours before she was expected to give the kickoff speech of her 2016 campaign for president here. “I walk my dog here every day,” said Ping Gu, who has lived on Roosevelt Island for four years. “I didn’t get a ticket and I probably won’t wait in line for three hours to see her, but I do wish I had two tickets because my nephew has lived in China for most of his life and I want him to have exposure.” Ms. Gu said her 14-year-old nephew was staying with her this weekend.  The campaign was handing out tickets to the event to people standing in a line near Four Freedoms Park, which celebrates the famous speech by Franklin D. Roosevelt. Ms. Gu, a registered Democrat, said she supported Mrs. Clinton and did not mind the crowds on the island for the event. She also said the Clinton volunteers she had encountered were respectful and kind. “I hope I can get a ticket because I live here,” she said. “It feels weird to wait so long — I live here.” Another resident, Mohammed Khan, was on his regular walk around the island with his wife, Naher. Mr. Khan, also a registered Democrat, said they had stumbled onto the Clinton event by chance, asked campaign volunteers what was going on and decided they would continue walking and then come back to wait in line.  “She’s good,” he said of Mrs. Clinton. “We’ll come back.”  
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			