In which First Draft reads between the lines of the mission statement for Jeb Bush’s new PAC, Right to Rise.

We believe passionately that the Right to Rise — to move up the income ladder based on merit, hard work and earned success — is the central moral promise of American economic life.

Besides paying homage to Paul Ryan, who coined the phrase “right to rise,” Mr. Bush is playing to the G.O.P.’s linguistic foundation, with words like “earned” and “merit” to telegraph a message of personal responsibility, rather than government help. We are optimists who believe that America’s opportunities have never been greater than they are right now.

Optimism = Reagan. Box checked. Millions of our fellow citizens across the broad middle class feel as if the American Dream is now out of their reach.

No campaign for president is complete without a direct appeal to the middle class. See Clinton, Hillary. While the last eight years have been pretty good ones for top earners, they’ve been a lost decade for the rest of America. We are not leading – at home or abroad.

Intriguingly, Mr. Bush is touching on income inequality, not a strong suit for the G.O.P. His campaign is already infused with a touch of populism, as “Right to Rise” suggests. We will celebrate success and risk-taking, protect liberty, cherish free enterprise, strengthen our national defense, embrace the energy revolution, fix our broken and obsolete immigration system, and give all children a better future by transforming our education system through choice, high standards and accountability.

This is the part where Mr. Bush politely tells critics of Common Core and national education standards to go fly a kite. We will not cede an inch of territory — no issues, no demographic groups, no voters — as we unite our citizens to strengthen America through greater economic growth and widespread prosperity.

In other words, we won’t run Mitt Romney’s 2012 campaign all over again, losing minority voters by wide margins. We believe in the transformative power of conservative ideas to renew America.

For those keeping track, this is the third reference to conservatism. There is a single reference to “government” and zero to “Washington.” Join us.

 Vote for me! 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			