Advertisement By KATIE ROGERSAUG. 21, 2015
 For years, an anonymous producer of “Bad Lip Reading,” a popular series of dubbed-over YouTube videos, has added absurdist humor to our already fairly absurd political process. The latest video, of the first prime time Republican presidential debate, put words in the mouths of the candidates, transforming them from showboaters to nincompoops who talked about tuna-melt indigestion (Donald Trump), swallowing goldfish (Senator Ted Cruz), and completing a puzzle on stage (Ben Carson). The video has been watched more than 4 million times. In an email interview, the Los Angeles-based Bad Lip Reader discussed ongoing projects and his favorite politicians. When it comes to characters, that last election cycle will be hard to top. Romney, Obama, Cain, Gingrich, Perry, Ron Paul, Michele Bachmann — from a writer’s perspective they were just so well-defined, and from a visual standpoint they were also particularly unique. Maybe some of the new G.O.P. batch will grow on me, but as of right now they seem slightly less interesting. Though I guess Trump has enough color for the whole group. On the Democrat side, Hillary will obviously be fun to tackle. Bernie Sanders too. I would be ecstatic if Biden decided to run, because I think he works so well as a character. Advertisement My favorite so far has been Mitt Romney. I was bummed when he decided not to run in 2016, because he just works so well — his mannerisms, the way he looks and carries himself. I enjoyed making those videos. Plus, I was asked to do his voice for an episode of “30 Rock,” which was a thrill for me. I’m not entirely sure when the next video will drop, but if all goes according to plan, some time in the next month. Advertisement Some videos take a few days; some take weeks; some take months. I even have one that I’ve been working on intermittently for years now. Literally years. Just chipping away a little bit here and there. I know, it sounds insane. It is insane. But I don’t release on a schedule. They’re just done when they’re done. I do have quite a few videos that have never been released. Some of them are done, just sitting there on a hard drive. For some reason or another I decided not to put them out there. A couple of TV shows and movies. A couple of sports ones. There are a few music videos. One video that I sometimes think about going back and finishing is Josh Groban and the Bee Gees featuring Snoop Dogg. It’s an absurd combination. Kind of works, though. I work in several different areas, and I like to keep those areas separate. At least for the time being. So, staying anonymous helps in that sense. But the anonymity thing is something that just interests me in general. I actually have quite a few anonymous or pseudonymous projects out there, some of them predating Bad Lip Reading by several years. It’s fascinating to watch these things grow and spread on their own. It’s an interesting social experiment. (The producer’s identity was confirmed in a very fitting way — through a YouTube video.) This interview has been edited and condensed. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »