The Clinton campaign is returning to the airwaves after a brief absence, buying roughly $175,000 worth of television advertising in Kentucky to air in the next week, according to two media buyers tracking the reservations.  The campaign has not made any new reservations or paid for advertising since Mrs. Clinton’s decisive victories in the Mid-Atlantic states on April 26.  In Indiana, the campaign was outspent on advertising by Bernie Sanders by $1.6 million to zero. Mrs. Clinton also lost that contest.  With Mr. Sanders reiterating his pledge to “fight for every remaining vote in every remaining state” Monday morning at a campaign rally in Atlantic City, and Donald J. Trump campaigning around the country as the presumptive Republican nominee, the Clinton team is finding itself battling two foes at once.  The majority of the new creative ads coming from the Clinton side has been focused on Mr. Trump; both her campaign and Priorities USA, the “super PAC” supporting her candidacy, released digital videos last week attacking him for comments claiming to be a “unifier.”  But, without a new ad being produced by the campaign, the reservations in Kentucky are most likely a shift back toward the primary, at least as much as their reservation takes them. The state’s Democratic primary is May 17.
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			