All those pigs-in-a-blanket can get pricey. Saddled with hundreds of thousands of dollars in catering bills, Hillary Rodham Clinton’s campaign wants to have donors foot the bill for those appetizers and gin-and-tonics -– not to mention valet parking – at some fund-raisers. She made the unusual request in a letter this month to the Federal Election Commission  asking for its legal blessing to offload the expenses without running afoul of campaign finance limits. The request was first reported by Politico. The worry is that if the donors pick up the tab themselves, the F.E.C. might consider that an “in-kind contribution” to Mrs. Clinton’s campaign that would count against the $2,700 they can each contribute to her campaign in the nominating contest. And that, of course, would leave less cash for the donors to contribute to the campaign. In the request, the campaign wrestled with the distinctly Washington dilemma of how to provide alcohol and nourishment to a roomful of hungry donors. Marc Elias, a lawyer for the Clinton campaign, argued in the letter to the F.E.C. that if Mrs. Clinton holds a fund-raiser at a hotel or a restaurant – but doesn’t explicitly promise the guests any food or drinks – the donors should be free to buy it themselves without a legal problem. “Any contrary conclusion here is proven unsound when taken to its logical extreme: if an event  attendee purchases a hot dog at a cart that happens to be set up outside of a campaign event, clearly the payment for the hot dog is not considered an in-kind contribution to the campaign,” Mr. Elias wrote. “The facts presented here are no different. In each case, the campaign has not provided event  attendees with food or beverages, and the attendee has independently made the decision to eat or drink. Further, in each case, that decision has no impact — financial or otherwise — on the campaign.” The F.E.C. had no immediate comment.  Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			