The Rev. Al Sharpton is known for his fiery oratory and excoriating those who cross him.  But he had words of forgiveness for the adviser who was fired by Donald J. Trump over Facebook posts with racially inflammatory words, including one in which he used a slur to describe Mr. Sharpton’s daughter. The adviser, Sam Nunberg, sent Mr. Sharpton a letter on Monday apologizing and asking for forgiveness.  “Trump did the right thing” by firing Mr. Nunberg, Mr. Sharpton said, “and the guy did the right thing to admit he was wrong and apologize.”  “Unlike others who have had accusations, he at least did not deny the gravity of what he did,” Mr. Sharpton said of Mr. Nunberg, adding that he also “forgave a guy who stabbed me once in Bensonhurst.”   Mr. Trump’s campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, announced that Mr. Nunberg had been fired on Sunday. Mr. Nunberg has insisted that he doesn’t recall writing the 2007 posts, which were revealed by Business Insider last week as others published news accounts of Mr. Trump’s history of racially incendiary remarks.  In his letter to Mr. Sharpton, Mr. Nunberg called the Facebook posts “disgusting” and  “inexcusable” and said that was not how he was raised. He pointed to his father’s judicial clerkship with a prominent African-American female jurist and said his grandparents had survived the Holocaust.  Mr. Nunberg, who has worked for Mr. Trump for years,  was fired once before by the real estate mogul, in 2014, but was rehired.  Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			