 The “super PAC” supporting former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida started airing ads on Tuesday promoting his record in Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina, but making no mention of his top rival for the Republican presidential nomination, Donald J. Trump.  But a minute-long online ad that the group, Right to Rise, put on its YouTube channel contrasts Mr. Trump’s language with Mr. Bush’s.  “One candidate is in a dark place,” reads text at the beginning of the ad, which PAC officials said would run only on the web. Mr. Trump’s face emerges, along with many of his most caustic remarks.  The spot then switches to the words “Choose a brighter path” and Mr. Bush talking optimistically as sun-drenched Americana images play on the screen — flags flying, a farmer on a tractor, a building under construction, a blonde girl running in a field.  “We will lift our sights again,” Mr. Bush says, speaking of an America “where everyone matters and everyone has a right to rise.”  On the screen are the words: “With positive, conservative leadership, America’s brightest days are ahead.”  The spot is meant as a clear contrast with Mr. Trump, which Mr. Bush’s advisers have long believed will favor him. But the spot uses the same words that have helped propel Mr. Trump to the front of the polls, and some of the same language Mr. Bush has used as his survey numbers have declined. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			