Hillary Rodham Clinton’s popularity is sinking as the spotlight on her campaign intensifies, according to a new ABC News-Washington Post poll that shows the American electorate growing moreÂ polarized along racial lines. The survey found that 53 percent of Americans now see Mrs. Clinton unfavorably, nearly matching the nadir she reached in April 2008 during her first presidential bid. Although 45 percent still view Mrs. Clinton favorably, the bulk of her support comes from blacks and Hispanics, while whites are taking a dimmer view of her candidacy. The poll points to the negative attention surrounding her use of a private email server as secretary of state as a reason for the negative feelings. On the Republican side, Donald J. Trump is even more polarizing than Mrs. Clinton with an unfavorable score of 59 percent. He did show a small uptick in support from Hispanics, but over all his favorability among nonwhites is 17 percent, with 79 percent of that demographic viewing him negatively. Former Gov. Jeb Bush’s overall favorability is slightly stronger than that of Mr. Trump. The Florida RepublicanÂ fares better with blacks and Hispanics, but his popularity with the latter group has dipped slightly, suggesting that Mr. Trump’s remarks about immigration could be damaging the Republican Party more broadly. The poll had margin of sampling error of plus or minus 4 percentage points. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			