SIOUX CITY, Iowa – As Republicans grapple with how to respond to Donald J. Trump’s caustic comments about Muslims, Senator Ted Cruz seems to be groping for a middle way. When asked on Friday about Mr. Trump’s call for a national registry of Muslims, Mr. Cruz said he was “a big fan of Donald Trump’s, but I’m not a fan of government registries.” Though the disagreement was notable, the Texas senator’s treatment of Mr. Trump was gentle, particularly for someone whose language toward other adversaries can sound far more belligerent. (“If you want to insult me, come and do it to my face,” Mr. Cruz said of President Obama, who criticized the refugee proposals of Mr. Cruz and other Republicans during a foreign trip this week.) Rather than expand upon his differences with Mr. Trump, Mr. Cruz accused reporters of trying to divide the Republican party. “I recognize that the media would love to get me and other candidates to attack Donald Trump,” Mr. Cruz said, speaking before an event in Sioux City. “There may be other candidates who want to do that. I ain’t gonna do it.” Yet it was striking that Mr. Cruz, who is aggressively courting evangelicals and is seen as well positioned to attract Mr. Trump’s supporters should he falter, moved to establish a clear contrast. Sweeping federal oversight of the sort that Mr. Trump proposed, particularly concerning the classification of a religious group, would seem directly at odds with the beliefs of the conservative voters Mr. Cruz has courted with large-scale rallies in defense of religious freedom. Mr. Cruz then pivoted quickly to a criticism of President Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton, assailing proposals to take in Syrian refugees. He has repeatedly called the idea “lunacy,” after expressing support for accepting Syrian refugees in the past. By ALAN RAPPEPORT Mr. Trump said the idea that Muslims in America should register with the federal government had come from a reporter. By MAGGIE HABERMAN and RICHARD PÉREZ-PEÑA Mr. Trump drew back from his call for a mandatory registry of Muslims in the United States, capping a week where candidates discussed their approaches to terrorism. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			