President Obama wrote on Wednesday that voting rights must be “vigorously defended” and called on Congress to restore the Voting Rights Act in the wake of a Supreme Court ruling that invalidated central parts of the historic 1965 law. Mr. Obama made his comments in a letter to the editor published in The New York Times on Wednesday. He wrote that he was inspired by an article in The New York Times Magazine this month, “A Dream Undone,” by Jim Rutenberg, that chronicled the half-century effort to dismantle the law. “As Rutenberg chronicles, from the moment the ink was dry on the Voting Rights Act, there has been a concentrated effort to undermine this historic law and turn back the clock on its progress,” Mr. Obama wrote in his letter. He added: “They remind us that progress does not come easy, but that it must be vigorously defended and built upon for ourselves and future generations.” Since the 2013 court ruling that removed the requirement for certain states — mostly in the South — to seek federal approval before they change their election laws, Mr. Obama has repeatedly called on Congress to update the Voting Rights Act. Last week, on the 50th anniversary of that law, Mr. Obama said thatÂ  recently passed voter-identification measures and other state laws were threatening to erode the fundamental promise of the federal voting laws. In his letter to the editor, the president called it a “cruel irony” that poll workers in the South used the preamble to the Constitution as literacy tests to keep African-Americans from voting. He said he is “where I am today” because people like the ones mentioned in the Times Magazine article fought to change the laws. “Their efforts made our country a better place,” he wrote. “It is now up to us to continue those efforts.” 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			