At a rally in Iowa this week, Donald J. Trump explained in bold terms and broad brush strokes the many ways he would improve the United States as president: building a wall, rebuilding the military, beating China on trade. When a protester chimed in to question how the Republican would do the things that he promised, Mr. Trump decided that instead of removing the man from the audience, he would respond. “You watch,” the billionaire developer said flatly. His supporters cheered. Mr. Trump has regained momentum in Iowa two weeks before the state’s caucuses, and many voters cite his bravado and willingness to assail political correctness, more than his policy proposals, as the main reasons. “I like that he’s not politically correct,” said Sarvinder Naberhaus, 54, of Ames. “Nowadays everybody has to have the same opinion. I love that he’s being so blunt.” For Bill Brown, a 58-year-old factory worker who caucused for Mike Huckabee in 2008, Mr. Trump’s tough stance on immigration is a plus, but the fact that he does not shy away from sensitive political issues is the primary appeal. “He speaks what’s on his mind,” Mr. Brown said. “I’m tired of political correctness.” The term “politically correct” has become a boogeyman in the battle for the Republican presidential nomination, as candidates look to embrace the outsider mantle in a year when being “establishment” is out of style. Mr. Trump has pushed the envelope in this area with his ban on Muslim immigration and contentious comments about women and Mexicans. While such ideas have offended some, his supporters see the fact that Mr. Trump has not backed away from his views, even when criticized, as evidence that he will fight for them. Benjamin Rittgers caucused for Mitt Romney in 2008 and became so disillusioned with the Republican Party that he changed his affiliation to independent. He recently re-registered as a Republican so that he can caucus for Mr. Trump on Feb. 1. “I think he can follow through,” Mr. Rittgers, 39, said at the rally where Mr. Trump was endorsed by Sarah Palin. “I don’t want someone who will just compromise with the Democrats.” Mr. Trump’s opponents lately have pointed to his previous liberal positions, and some have suggested that he has a weak grasp of Christianity. His most ardent fans, however, shrug off these arguments, pointing out that former President Ronald Reagan was once a Democrat and that former President Jimmy Carter – disliked by many Republicans – was a man of deep faith. Ultimately, Mr. Trump’s outsider status seems to win out. “I like the idea of someone who is not a politician,” said James Rogers, who drove to Iowa from Wisconsin to hear Mr. Trump speak. “I’m going to vote for him.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			