HOOKSETT, N.H. — The exchange began inauspiciously. “Unlike you, I do not believe that my life was divinely inspired,” said the young man, standing in the middle of a Jeb Bush event on Tuesday night, as he pointedly asked Mr. Bush if he thought religious references should be removed from the White House.  “Does it offend you that I express my view that life is a gift from God?” Mr. Bush responded. The two men — one the former governor of Florida, the other a 19-year-old student at Union College in New York — seemed to talk past each other at points, with Mr. Bush explaining this his religion allows “people to know what’s in my heart” and the student, Ari Bennett, trying to argue for a more clear separation between religion and government. But the back-and-forth also provided a personal glimpse into the life of Mr. Bush, who is Roman Catholic, and the religion that plays a quiet if omnipresent part of his daily routine. Mr. Bush reiterated that he did not mean to offend Mr. Bennett, and said he does not judge others who don’t share is faith. But he explained that, as a candidate for president, he feels it’s appropriate to share his religious underpinnings with voters. “I’m a public person aspiring for public office,” he said. “I’m not saying that I’m going to impose my religion on you as president of the United States. But I’m running for president and I want people to know what’s in my heart. I want people to know how I make decisions, how I view life itself, and I think that’s more than appropriate.” Moments later, Mr. Bush — who said he says a prayer each morning when he wakes up — added, “I will continue to kind of give people what my moral architecture is, how I make decisions.”  Then he paused, fishing around in his pants pocket. “I actually carry little Baby Jesus here with me because it’s my strength,” he said, producing a figurine of Jesus, in what looked like a manger, in his palm.  “This is an arduous process, man.” The crowd applauded, as he finished: “I’m just trying to explain me. And you explained you. And I respect you.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			