FARMINGTON, N.H. – Donald J. Trump asked New Hampshire voters on Monday to hand him a victory so big, so beautiful, that only one word in the political lexicon could describe it. “We have to have a mandate,” Mr. Trump told a lively and at-times boisterous crowd in a high school gymnasium. He added, “We have to get big numbers.” Mr. Trump has long held a wide lead in New Hampshire primary polling, and his campaign has treated it as the most essential of the early-voting states. (“New Hampshire has been so amazing from day one,” he said on Monday night.) But the stakes have risen here for Mr. Trump as Senator Ted Cruz of Texas has emerged as a strong threat to win the Iowa caucuses next week. Should a rival prevail in Iowa, Mr. Trump may rely on the New Hampshire primary on Feb. 9 to help him bounce back. He is due back in the state on Friday, the morning after the final pre-caucus debate in Iowa. Taking both states, however, could give the Trump campaign rocket-like momentum heading into the rest of the nominating fight. Mr. Trump leveled his harshest attacks on Mr. Cruz, criticizing his failure to fully disclose loans he received from two major banks, and again questioning Mr. Cruz’s eligibility to serve as president because he was born in Canada. Mr. Cruz, he warned, has a legal “cloud over his head” that might require Supreme Court action to be resolved. (Mr. Cruz was born in Canada to an American mother and a Cuban-born father who was later naturalized.) “He could run right now for prime minister of Canada,” Mr. Trump said. Mr. Cruz has actually renounced his Canadian citizenship, so such a career move is not in the cards.
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			