Washington was recovering slowly from the weekend’s fierce snowstorm, leading House Republican leaders to cancel votes and committee sessions in what was already going to be a short week as a result of a Democratic strategy retreat. Citing the difficulty of traveling to a city where the airports have been shut down, Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the Republican majority leader, announced Sunday morning that the House would resume business on Feb. 1. House Democrats still intend to travel to Baltimore midweek for a scheduled party planning session. The Senate prepared to convene this week but will do so a day later than expected. Senators will now vote on a judicial nomination Wednesday evening before turning to an energy bill.   Congressional lawmakers weren’t the only ones who had their plans changed by the storm. Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., returning from the economic forum in Switzerland, was unable to land in Washington on Saturday. He was diverted to Miami to await a chance to return to the nation’s capital. The absence of Congress didn’t mean the Capitol grounds were empty. Hundreds of people descended on the Capitol to sled after Congress lifted an unpopular sledding ban on one of the best spots in the city. It’s not called Capitol Hill for nothing.
Follow the New York Times Politics and Washington on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter. Follow the New York Times Politics and Washington on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			