The saga of Anthony D. Weiner has been out of the headlines for a while, but it will be on the silver screen in January, just in time for the Iowa caucuses. Sundance Institute announced this week that a documentary about the former congressman and New York mayoral candidate will be shown at its film festival next year. The documentary is entitled “Weiner.” The filmmakers were granted unrestricted access to Mr. Weiner’s failed 2013 run for mayor of New York City. According to Sundance, “the film reveals the human story behind the scenes of a high-profile political scandal as it unfolds, and offers an unfiltered look at how much today’s politics is driven by an appetite for spectacle.” The film could make waves on the campaign trail, because Huma Abedin, a longtime aide to Hillary Clinton and Mr. Weiner’s wife, is expected to be featured. However, the creators of the film would not say whether she would appear. “Weiner,” which is still being edited, was directed by Josh Kriegman and Elyse Steinberg of Edgeline Films. Mr. Kriegman served as chief of staff for Mr. Weiner’s district office from 2005 to 2006, when Mr. Weiner was a member of Congress. Mr. Weiner resigned from Congress in 2011 after revelations that he was sending explicit messages to women online. He tried to resurrect his political career and run for mayor, but it emerged that he continued such behavior even after he left Congress and sought treatment. Ryan Werner, a publicist for the documentary, said that the idea was proposed by Mr. Kriegman and that he had access to Mr. Weiner, his staff and Ms. Abedin from May to September 2013. The film is expected to be about 90 minutes long. Its creators will be looking for distribution opportunities after the showing at the Sundance festival. Donald J. Trump made an issue out of the couple’s relationship earlier this year, raising questions about how the former secretary of state could have a confidante who was married to Mr. Weiner and referring to him as a “sleaze bag” and a “perv.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			