In the past week, the Republican presidential primary has gone from the sober to the surreal. There is now a little over a week before a pivotal contest in Wisconsin, and the candidates will be focusing more and more attention on the state governed by Scott Walker, one of their former rivals.  A week ago, four presidential candidates — all except Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont — gave speeches at the American Israel Public Affairs Committee meeting in Washington, pledging fealty to Israel. That was the sober moment.  Within days came the surreal, as the focus of the Republican race shifted to Donald J. Trump’s attacks on the wife of his rival Ted Cruz, with a threat to “spill the beans” about her. Mr. Trump’s threat, posted on Twitter, came after a “super PAC” that was created to stop Mr. Trump used an image in an ad in Utah of his wife, Melania, a former model, posing nude on his jet. Mr. Trump insisted that the group behind the ad was tied to Mr. Cruz, and criticized him for not disavowing the spot — but the group is not tied to Mr. Cruz, and he did disavow it.  Mr. Trump also resent a Twitter post of a side-by-side comparison featuring an unflattering photograph of Mrs. Cruz against one of Mrs. Trump. That type of broadside on a political spouse is unusual in any campaign, let alone one for president, and it left Republicans fearful, once again, of the harm that their front-runner’s comments about women could cause up and down the ballot in the fall.  The week ended with Mr. Cruz denying a National Enquirer report that he had had affairs with five different women, and blaming Mr. Trump for the story. Mr. Trump denied that claim in his lone television interview on Sunday.  All of this sets up a toxic mix for a race that was already tense. Elsewhere, Mr. Sanders had the best day of his presidential campaign, winning three caucuses and bringing his total in the week to five. Caucuses have been fertile territory for Mr. Sanders against Hillary Clinton, but there are only two such contests left on the calendar. The Republican race seems destined to get nastier this week, as the candidates take part in a town-hall-style event on CNN on Tuesday night and Mr. Trump faces new questions about his foreign policy views. On the Democratic side, Mr. Sanders has been pressing for an additional debate in New York, a wish that Mrs. Clinton’s team seems deeply reluctant to grant in a contest in which the senator has, mathematically, fallen far behind. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			