Donald J. Trump on Sunday promised to make public this week a list of five to 10 judges he would nominate to the Supreme Court, seeking to ease concerns among conservatives that he would appoint liberal justices if he is elected president. The move came in the final minutes of a freewheeling, nearly hourlong speech to the Palm Beach County Republican Party in which Mr. Trump described the man who punched and kicked a protester at his Tucson rally as “wonderful,” denounced Republicans who he said were “plotting against me,” urged people to contribute to races for offices other than president if conservatives recruit a third-party candidate against him, and mocked audience members for donating $25,000 per person for the privilege of having a photo taken with him. Saying that he was about to make news, Mr. Trump said the next president would remake the high court. “You might have five Supreme Court justices to be picked over the next four years, because we already have one, and you’ll probably have four more,” he said. “So you could change the balance of the court very quickly, very easily.” Mr. Trump acknowledged that there were questions about the type of justices he would choose for the court if he were president. “So what I’m going to do is, I’m going to get between five and 10 judges that everybody respects, likes and totally admires,” he said, adding that he would “guarantee it personally, like we do in the world of business, which we don’t like to do too often, but I will guarantee it that those are going to be the first judges that I put up for nomination if I win.” A spokeswoman, Hope Hicks, said late Sunday night that Mr. Trump would release the names of those judges sometime this week. Earlier in his remarks, Mr. Trump, who insisted that he does not condone violence, nonetheless praised the man who assaulted a protester who was being led out from his Tucson rally on Saturday, noting that a second protester, who was not assaulted, had been wearing a Ku Klux Klan mask. Mr. Trump said that videotape of the incident had been unfairly edited so that the only thing seen was what he called “this wonderful – because I hear he’s a very, very fine guy – this wonderful African-American man swinging, swinging, swinging, and nobody knows why he did it. And I think it’s very, very unfair.” Mr. Trump also lamented a report in The New York Times about conservatives looking to field a third-party candidate if he captures the Republican nomination. “They’re plotting against me,” he said, adding that if his detractors’ gambit succeeded, Republican donors should save their money on the presidential race and support candidates for lower offices instead. Mr. Trump played insult comic at one point: After calling the people in the room “fantastic businessmen,” he paused, then added: “Maybe you’re not, because you paid 25,000 bucks to have a picture with me.” Just kidding, he said, amid laughter. In other seemingly candid moments, Mr. Trump said he frequently brings up his proposal to build a wall on the nation’s border with Mexico when the energy in a room is “lagging” and he wants to whip up the crowd. And he ruminated about the millions that have been spent against him in television ads, only to see his numbers go up. “I don’t know what the hell is going on in politics,” he said. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			