Donald J. Trump expressed his solidarity with Israel in passionate terms on Monday, promising a gathering of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee that as president he would always stand up forÂ it against itsÂ enemies in the Middle East. The Republican presidential candidate, who has been criticized for saying that he would like to remain neutral in negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians, made clear in no uncertain terms that Israel had his unbridled support. He assailed the United Nations and the Obama administration for failing to side with Israel and promised to take a hard line against Iran. “I speak to you today as a lifelong supporter and true friend of Israel,” Mr. Trump said. Drawing several rounds of standing ovations, Mr. Trump thundered against the Iran nuclear deal and made clear that he was not, in fact, on the fenceÂ when it came to brokering a deal with Israel and the Palestinians. “The Palestinians must come to the table, knowing that the bond between the United States and Israel is absolutely and totally unbreakable,” Mr. Trump said. “They must come to the table willing and able to stop the terror being committed on a daily basis against Israel.” Last year Mr. Trump drew jeers for fumbling a question on the sensitive issue of whether the American embassy should be moved to Jerusalem from Tel Aviv. Taking the opportunity for a do-over, he said that he believed it should be moved to Jerusalem, which he called “the eternal capital of the Jewish state.” In remarks that were delivered with more crispness than his usualÂ stump speeches, Mr. Trump still could not resist briefly discussing his poll numbers. He also criticized Hillary Clinton, who took several shots at him before the same gathering earlier in the day. “Hillary Clinton, who is a total disaster by the way, she and President Obama have treated Israel very, very badly,” Mr. Trump said. The Manhattan businessman made sure to note that he would happily meet with Israel’s prime minister and demonstratedÂ deep ties to Jewish people by recalling his participation as grand marshal in the 2004 Salute to Israel Parade and by mentioning his daughter’s Jewish faith. “I love the people in this room, I love Israel,” Mr. Trump said. “My daughter Ivanka is about to have a beautiful Jewish baby.” By MARK LANDLER and MAGGIE HABERMAN The candidates previewed for an influential pro-Israel audience a debate on foreign policy that could play out this fall if they face each other in the general election. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			