What if the Senate were actually considering Judge Merrick B. Garland’s nomination to the Supreme Court? Senator Mark S. Kirk, Republican of Illinois, offered a momentary glimpse Wednesday of what a conventional nomination process might look like, distributing a memo to his Republican colleagues that laid out the policy concerns he discussed during his meeting with Judge Garland last week. In the one-page document passed around during a weekly lunch, Mr. Kirk again urged his colleagues to sit down with Judge Garland — albeit in a less charged way than his call for a “rational, adult” approach. “We had a positive conversation, and I encourage you to meet with him,” he said in the memo. Mr. Kirk, who is in a tough fight for re-election, seized on four of his “priorities” that he said need the court’s attention: the treatment of detainees; the prosecution of drug gangs; the sex trafficking of children; and the autonomy of state governments from federal control. He did not elaborate on Judge Garland’s responses to his inquiries. What was most striking about the memo was what it lacked — specifically, any reference to the bitter partisan fight that has led lawmakers like Senator John Boozman, Republican of Arkansas, to defend themselves against charges of betrayal for simply agreeing to sit down with Judge Garland. Instead Mr. Kirk took more of a “can’t we all just get along?” approach, appealing to more universal concerns, such as whether federal law is being used to shield sex traffickers on websites like BackPage.com. (The Senate unanimously passed a resolution last month holding the website’s chief executive in contempt for failing to comply with a subpoena.)  Also notably absent from the memo were some of conservatives’ strongest rallying cries when it comes to the court, including abortion and illegal immigration. Many Senate Republicans filed an amicus brief on Monday to a case challenging Mr. Obama’s executive actions on immigration. It was unclear whether Mr. Kirk’s note prompted any second thoughts among those 37 Republicans who have not expressed an opinion or have dismissed meeting with Judge Garland. But a Senate Judiciary Committee announcement earlier Wednesday added one more meeting to Judge Garland’s calendar: He will have breakfast on Tuesday with Senator Charles E. Grassley, the Iowa Republican who, as chairman of the committee, will tell him why he will not hold hearings for him. Follow the New York Times Politics and Washington on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter. A version of this article appears in print on 04/07/2016, on page A14 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Battle for the Supreme Court; Illinois Senator Gives Glimpse of Would-Be Nomination Process. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			