The Republican National Committee’s loyalty pledge died on Tuesday night. It was nearly eight months old.  At a town-hall-style event hosted by CNN, Donald J. Trump said he would not promise to support the eventual nominee if it was not him, despite a loyalty oath that he and 16 other candidates signed in September.  Senator Ted Cruz of Texas also would not explicitly vow to back the nominee, in his case if it was Mr. Trump, saying only that Mr. Trump would not get that far. Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio was more explicit, saying that if the nominee was someone who “is really hurting the country and dividing the country,” then he just wasn’t sure. Pressed by the host, Anderson Cooper, on whether he was saying he thinks that’s what Mr. Trump is doing, Mr. Kasich declined to elaborate. The reason the pledge existed in the first place was to prevent Mr. Trump walking out of the Republican contest and into a third-party candidacy. But the comments marked a fresh stage in the open warfare that has erupted in the past weeks, as Mr. Trump has moved closer to capturing the nomination of a party whose major leaders remain deeply troubled by his comments. The wounds in the party are becoming so deep that they may be impossible to heal in time for the general election campaign, no matter who the nominee is.  The pledge discussion also shifted the focus away from the controversy around Mr. Trump’s campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, who was charged with battery, accused of grabbing a Breitbart News reporter as she was trying to ask the candidate a question. Mr. Trump fiercely defended Mr. Lewandowski throughout the day, with rivals on both sides criticizing him for doing so.  Hillary Clinton, the Democratic front-runner, spoke carefully about the issue involving Mr. Lewandowski, although she said candidates were responsible for their campaigns. Mrs. Clinton speaks from experience in this respect — she and her campaign took heat for days last summer when aides used a rope to keep reporters away from the candidate.  Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			