PALM BEACH, Fla. — “I think there are two Donald Trumps,” said the first version of Donald J. Trump, addressing reporters at a news conference at Mar-a-Lago, his club where he was endorsed by his former Republican presidential rival Ben Carson on Friday. Then, moments later, the second version emerged, to offer an opposing theory: “I don’t think there are two Donald Trumps,” said this Mr. Trump. “I think there’s one Donald Trump.” Ah, to be Donald Trump, either version. Mr. Trump was responding to questions about his public and private persona, first raised by Mr. Carson, who said, “There are two different Donald Trumps.” “There’s the one you see on the stage, and there’s the one who’s very cerebral, sits there and considers things very carefully,” Mr. Carson said. “You can have a very good conversation with him. And that’s the Donald Trump that you’re going to start seeing more and more of right now.” Asked about the discrepancy between his showman-like public self and more private self, Mr. Trump first said he agreed with Mr. Carson’s assessment. His public version, he said, “seems to have worked over my lifetime.” But, he added: “I’m a big thinker. And I have my ideas and they’re strong, and typically they worked out.” But later, prompted by reporters, he returned to the question, first saying he doesn’t like “to overanalyze myself,” before offering a bit of introspection. “I will tell you that I try and be who I am, I want to be honest, certain questions are asked of me and I give a straight answer as opposed to a politically correct answer,” he said. “I know the politically correct business better than anybody.” Seeming to realize the political peril of saying he would give different answers in private that he does in public, he added that he always answers questions honestly, before finally concluding:  “I don’t think there are two Donald Trumps. I think there’s one Donald Trump.” But, he added: “You have somebody else that sits and reads and thinks, and I’m a thinker and I have been a thinker, and perhaps people don’t think of me that way, because you don’t see me in that forum. But I am a thinker. I thought it was very nice what Ben said, because it is another side of me. I’m a very deep thinker. I know what’s happening.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			