At a campaign stop at the University of Florida in Gainesville, Senator Bernie Sanders told students he hoped to pull off another upset like the one in Michigan. Join us for live updates of the Republican debate. _______ Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont spent Thursday talking to thousands of people in rallies across Florida in an effort to garner support before the state’s primary next week. Mr. Sanders began his day in Miami and flew to Gainesville for a morning rally at the University of Florida. There, he told about 5,600 supporters that he would need their help to score another victory like the one he had in Michigan’s primary on Tuesday. He also continued to contrast his stances on trade with those of his rival, Hillary Clinton. “We just pulled off a major upset in Michigan the other night, and on Tuesday we have five states coming up, including Florida,” Mr. Sanders said to cheers. “If you guys come out to vote, we are going to pull off another upset.” He went on to accuse Mrs. Clinton of hurting America’s manufacturing industry by supporting trade deals that robbed people of their jobs. “I believe that corporate America has got to start investing in this country, not just in China and low-wage countries all over the world.” Mr. Sanders said. “I have opposed every one of these disastrous trade agreements which have cost us millions of decent paying jobs. Secretary Clinton has supported almost all of them. That’s a real difference.” Gemma Galvez, 22, a graduate student at the University of Florida who is studying mental health counseling, said she was “pretty confident” that Mr. Sanders had a “good” chance of winning the Democratic nomination after Wednesday night’s debate and his surprising victory in Michigan. “I know people keep telling us that we shouldn’t expect too much, but I feel really, really good,” Ms. Galvez said. “I think he has excellent momentum considering I had no idea who Bernie Sanders was last year.” Later in the day, Mr. Sanders held a rally in Kissimmee, where more than 5,200 supporters cheered him on. There, he again focused on overhauling the campaign finance system, and also said that Florida could be a leader in solar energy to help combat climate change. He again focused on his Michigan victory in arguing that he could beat Mrs. Clinton despite what the polls say. “This coming Tuesday, you have a very important primary here in Florida,” Mr. Sanders told the crowd. “Now, about a week ago, we were 20 or 30 points behind in Michigan, and what all of the pundits said and what all of the media said, ‘Bernie Sanders and the political revolution can’t win in Michigan.’ Guess what? We won in Michigan.” Mr. Sanders added, as he has countless times before, that with a large voter turnout he could also win Florida and other states. “If you come out and your friends and family and neighbors come out, we are going to win here in Florida,” Mr. Sanders said to cheers. The senator was scheduled to hold a rally in Tampa on Thursday night. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			