Rolling out endorsements from elected officials is a ritual of presidential campaigns, a sign a candidate is embraced by party leadership. Donald J. Trump added a twist on Thursday by announcing that “dozens of Georgia officials” endorse him, but only naming four of them.  A Trump press release said Mr. Trump had received his first endorsement by a statewide elected official in Georgia, Lauren (Bubba) McDonald Jr., the chairman of the Public Service Commission.  “It is my great honor to receive these coveted and influential endorsements from tremendous people in the state of Georgia,’’ Mr. Trump was quoted as saying in the release. There was no hint of who the dozens of officials might be. Last month, Mr. Trump announced a growing effort in Georgia, including opening a campaign office in Cobb County and the recruitment of grass-roots leaders in all 159 counties. Two state senators were named at the time as supporters: Burt Jones and Michael Williams. In addition, a well-known former chairwoman of the George Republican Party, Sue Everhart, also endorsed Mr. Trump.    Republican leaders anxious about Mr. Trump have watched closely for signs of establishment figures growing comfortable with him as the party’s nominee. His most prominent endorsement by a statewide official came recently from South Carolina’s lieutenant governor, Henry McMaster, who appears in a radio ad for Mr. Trump ahead of the state’s Feb. 20 Republican primary. The billionaire developer was also endorsed by Sarah Palin ahead of the Iowa caucuses, and by Joe Arpaio, the Arizona sheriff known for tough stands on undocumented immigrants. Asked if a list of the “dozens” of Georgia officials had been omitted in error from its announcement, a campaign spokeswoman, Hope Hicks, said by email, “No glitch.’’ Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			