The Democratic National Committee will lift its ban on donations from political action committees and lobbyists for it convention fund-raising and for the accounts it shares with presidential campaigns, highlighting the coming shift within the party as it moves from being led by an incumbent president to its next nominee.  The committee’s current policies, put in place by President Obama’s team when he was the nominee in 2008, reflected his desire to change the culture of Washington. Under those rules, the party committee could not accept money from PACs or lobbyists, even so-called leadership PACs of major elected officials.  There were slight modifications to the policy in Mr. Obama’s 2012 re-election campaign as fund-raising around the Democratic convention was sluggish, but the rules have basically stayed in place.  But officials at the White House this week approved of two carve-outs to the ban — one for the committee for the party’s nominating convention in Philadelphia next year, and the other for the joint fund-raising agreements. Holly Shulman, a spokeswoman for the national committee, confirmed the changes, and added that the policy would remain in place for other committee fund-raising.   “These changes restore the fund-raising policies in effect at the D.N.C. in most prior cycles for its joint fund-raising and convention activities,” Ms. Schulman said in a statement. “President Obama will continue to decline to raise funds for the D.N.C. from lobbyists or political action committees for any of the committee’s activities or programs. At this time the D.N.C. will continue its policy of not accepting donations from political action committees and lobbyists for its general fund-raising operations. The D.N.C. will continue to review and update its policies looking ahead to 2016.”  Allowing PAC and lobbyist donations to the joint fund-raising committee was something that Hillary Rodham Clinton’s campaign encouraged, people briefed on the discussions said. Mrs. Clinton has spoken openly about her frustration with the way that Jeb Bush, one of her Republican rivals, raised funds for his so-called super PAC by delaying his formal campaign declaration, even as he toured the country as an all-but-official contender.  The concern within her Brooklyn-based campaign headquarters is that she will be heavily outspent on the Republican side, given the comparatively slow pace of fund-raising at the super PAC supporting her.  Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			