After much hand-wringing over their vacation plans, Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton will return to the Hamptons this summer, according to people with knowledge of their August plans.  At least one fund-raiser there is already on Mrs. Clinton’s schedule and more will be added as her campaign seeks donations to build its coffers heading into the busy fall season of the Democratic nominating contest.  The Clintons have been mainstays of the hamlets on the shores of Long Island in recent years. They’ve rented multimillion-dollar mansions in East Hampton, Sagaponack and Amagansett over the last several summers, hosting their extended families and going on long walks on the beach with their dogs. But now that Mrs. Clinton’s presidential campaign is official and she is taking her message of lifting the middle class and alleviating income inequality to voters, the vacation spot, known as a playground for the wealthy, seemed like it could prove problematic image-wise. For months, Republicans have tried to portray Mrs. Clinton’s paid speaking fees and comment that she and Mr. Clinton were “dead broke” when they left the White House as evidence that she is out of touch with average Americans.  The fund-raiser in mid-August, which will be hosted by several Clinton supporters, is said to be being planned at a public space surrounded by rural farmland, rather than in an opulent private home, which could strike an elitist tone. People close to Mrs. Clinton advised that it was better to come across as authentic and not change her vacation plans because of political optics, as she did ahead of her 2000 campaign when she was seeking to become a senator from New York. That year, Mr. and Mrs. Clinton vacationed in the upstate Finger Lakes region, in addition to going to their usual haunt of Martha’s Vineyard. The only problem with weighing the pros and cons of a summer vacation for so many months? The cliffside estate in Amagansett, next door to Harvey Weinstein’s beach house, that the Clintons loved staying in last August was already booked.  Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			