Donald J. Trump earned just $14,222 in salary. He owes at least $265 million in debt. He is paid about $250,000 per speech. And he received $110,000 from a pension with the Screen Actors Guild. Those details were revealed in Mr. Trump’s financial disclosure form, filed with the Federal Election Commission last week and made public on Wednesday. Like Mr. Trump’s favorite, elongated adjective, “hu-u-u-ge,” his disclosure filing, which covers the past 18 months, is mammoth, clocking in at 92 pages, far longer than any other 2016 presidential contender’s. When he submitted it, Mr. Trump boasted in a statement that his wealth exceeded “TEN BILLION DOLLARS.” (His capitalization.) However, the document’s limitations made it difficult to corroborate his claim. It showed that Mr. Trump, a Republican, earned at least $380 million, making him the highest-earning candidate in the 2016 presidential field. And it detailed assets worth at least $1.4 billion. But the form contained wide ranges for asset values and incomes that made it impossible to calculate a very wealthy candidate’s net worth or income with precision. The largest range, in fact, was infinite: those assets worth “over $50 million.” Mr. Trump listed that category more than 20 times. (Examples: Trump Tower Chicago, the Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster, N.J., and the Mar-A-Lago Club in Palm Beach, Fla.) Despite Mr. Trump’s reputation as a builder of office and residential towers, it turns out that roughly half of his income, about $200 million, derives from golf courses and resorts. He reported $49 million in revenues from one such development, Trump National Doral, in Miami, and another $20 million from the Trump Turnberry, in Scotland — which will host the Women’s British Open next week, the first major golf tournament on a Trump course. Roughly 17 percent of Mr. Trump’s income, $66 million, came from the sales of condominiums; another 11 percent, or $41 million, came from rent, according to the document, which covered the period since Jan. 1, 2014. Mr. Trump stated $1.75 million in earnings from speaking engagements, most of that paid for by a company called ACN Inc., a multilevel marketing company that sells telecommunications services and whose website prominently features Mr. Trump’s endorsement. Mr. Trump, it seems, has not embraced the widespread practice of diversifying his financial holdings. Of his $1.4 billion in assets, a relatively small amount — at least $78 million — is invested in a portfolio of hedge funds, mutual funds, traditional stocks and a small amount of gold. It earned at least $15 million during the 18-month filing period. The hedge funds are managed by big names in the industry: BlackRock oversees $25 million to $50 million for Mr. Trump, while John Paulson, famed for his lucrative, billion-dollar bets against the housing market, looks after another $3 million to $15 million. (Mr. Trump appears to eschew private equity, a fashionable vehicle for the super-rich in the past decade: His portfolio includes none.) He trades stocks in accounts at Oppenheimer, Deutsche Bank, and J.P. Morgan, and his holdings are in fairly traditional, Fortune 500 companies: Apple, Bristol-Myers Squibb, and Kinder Morgan, the energy company. The document offered new insights into the reach and value of the Trump name, which he and his family have long deployed in licensing agreements for everything from beverages to fragrances. It showed, for example, that Mr. Trump’s wife, Melania, earned at least $105,000 from brands that license her name, including a line of skin-care products and fashion accessories. Mr. Trump himself earned at least $9.5 million in royalties from licensing his surname, allowing luxury hotels and residential towers in Istanbul, Panama and Washington to borrow it. But his bombastic campaign style has already imperiled or destroyed several of those arrangements, as licensees have distanced themselves from his caustic remarks about Mexican immigrants. The PVH Corporation, the clothing conglomerate better known as Phillips-Van Heusen, recently said it was winding down its licensing agreement to produce the Donald J. Trump Signature Collection dress shirts and neckwear sold at Macy’s (which itself severed ties with Mr. Trump.) Assessing the value of Mr. Trump’s best-known real estate holdings was always difficult, and the disclosure form did little to change that. What is 40 Wall Street worth, for example? Mr. Trump has said he bought the Lower Manhattan office tower in 1995 for the paltry sum of $1 million during a real estate depression. He has since renovated it and leased its office space to tenants. According to his filing, the building produced $5 million in income for Mr. Trump and was worth more than $50 million. But in the same document, he listed the mortgage on the property at more than $50 million, making it impossible to know its true value. The filing did resolve a few mysteries, however. In 2010, Mr. Trump took over the management of the Central Park carousel, promising to revive the merry-go-round after its previous operator was removed by the city’s parks department. His cost at the time: $7,500 a month. The disclosure said Mr. Trump earned revenue of $588,518 from carousel admissions over the past 18 months. With a mix of hyperbole and self-confidence, Mr. Trump has long described himself as a gravity-defying success story in whatever field he tackles. But the financial disclosure offered a glimpse of lesser-known — and well-performing — corners of Mr. Trump’s financial empire, such as his library of financial advice books. Several of those have earned him tens of thousands of dollars in royalties during the period covered by the disclosure. But 11 of them, with colorful titles like “Think Big and Kick Ass in Business and Life,” reaped less than $201 each. Charles V. Bagli and Julie Creswell contributed reporting. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. A version of this article appears in print on 07/23/2015, on page A19 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Income and Wealth Are Shown in Trump Filing but Are Hard to Pinpoint. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			