A senior executive of Koch Industries sent a letter on Tuesday to the company’s employees disputing a new book about the Kochs and other conservative families, saying it significantly exaggerated the role of the company’s founder, Fred C. Koch, in constructing an important refinery for the Nazi regime in Germany. Mr. Koch, who died in 1967, was the father of the billionaire political activists Charles G. and David H. Koch, who now control the family business. The book, “Dark Money,” by Jane Mayer, reports that in 1934, Mr. Koch’s company, known as Winkler-Koch Engineering, “provided the engineering plans and began overseeing the construction” of a large oil refinery in Hamburg. Her book cites archival documents, a study of the Nazi-era oil industry, and other published work. By Ms. Mayer’s account, the refinery was personally approved by Hitler and played an important part both in the German war effort during World War II and in the growth of the Koch family business. “Fred Koch’s willingness to work with the Soviets and the Nazis was a major factor in creating the Koch family’s early fortune,” Ms. Mayer wrote. But in the letter to employees, company officials disputed elements of that account and said Ms. Mayer had unfairly taken Mr. Koch’s work out of context. David L. Robertson, the president and chief operating officer of Koch Industries, said that Mr. Koch’s work for the Nazi regime long predated the outbreak of World War II and was one of hundreds of international projects Winkler-Koch worked on during the late 1920s and early 1930s. Mr. Robertson said a review of company archives indicated that Mr. Koch’s company was responsible only for the German refinery’s “cracking” equipment, the machinery that helps convert crude oil into gasoline and other products. “Simply put, this cracking unit was just one element in the composition of a single refinery,” Mr. Robertson said. The cracking unit was one of 39 built by Winkler-Koch from 1928 to 1934, he said. The company also had projects in England, Scotland, France and Canada, according to Mr. Robertson, and was one of many “iconic” American businesses that did business in Germany during the same period. “To cherry-pick one project among hundreds during this time frame and then use it out of context in order to further an agenda-driven story line is grossly inaccurate,” he said. Koch Industries has long been critical of Ms. Mayer, a staff writer for The New Yorker, who has written about the Koch family on several occasions, beginning with a 2010 magazine article that significantly raised the two brothers’ public profile. “As the Kochs are confirming, Fred Koch was integrally involved in the creation of a German refinery that Adolf Hitler personally greenlighted,” Ms. Mayer wrote in an email Tuesday night. “Splitting-hairs by disaggregating which parts of the equipment Fred Koch provided is a distraction. Without the cracking unit, which Fred Koch designed, there would be no refinery.” A version of this article appears in print on 01/13/2016, on page A13 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Koch Executive Says Book Overstates Work for Nazis. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			