The House returns this week from its holiday break, and it will open 2016 doing something Republicans have been itching to do for years: send a repeal of the Affordable Care Act to President Obama’s desk. “We owe it it to the country to take our best shot at repealing #Obamacare while Pres Obama is still in office,” Speaker Paul D. Ryan said on Twitter in advance of the House’s reconvening for the second session of the 114th Congress. To reach their long-sought goal, House Republicans are planning to approve a Senate measure repealing the health care bill and stripping federal money for Planned Parenthood. It was passed under special budget rules that prevented Senate Democrats from using a filibuster to block, as they have in the past. But Republicans seizing the majority in the Senate will allow them to finally push the measure through to Mr. Obama. The victory, while symbolic, will be short-lived. Mr. Obama will certainly veto a measure that repeals his signature domestic policy achievement. House Republicans will try to override the veto but cannot reach the necessary threshold without Democratic support. But Republicans view forcing the president to reject the measure as meeting their promise to do whatever they can to overturn the legislation. They also hope it eases some conservative unrest over the recently approved budget deal struck with Democrats. The Senate will not be back until next week, just in time for Mr. Obama’s final State of the Union address. Follow the New York Times Politics and Washington on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			