Updated, 12:39 p.m. | Within hours of the Republican National Committee’s decision on Friday to suspend a scheduled Feb. 26 debate hosted by NBC News and Telemundo, the Spanish-language station was on the phone with the Democratic National Committee, pushing for a greater role in the Democratic Party’s early nominating process. Telemundo had already been in discussions with the Democratic committee about hosting a candidate forum, but intensified its push after the R.N.C.’s move to suspend its NBC News and Telemundo debate. That suspension of the Feb. 26 debate followed the fallout of last week’s CNBC debate, which many candidates called unfair. The Washington Post reported Telemundo’s renewed outreach to the D.N.C. The Democrats, which are hosting six sanctioned debates, already have a scheduled debate with Univision, a Spanish-language network, on March 9 in Miami. But NBC News, which is hosting an official Democratic debate in January in Charleston, S.C., did not bring in its sister station, Telemundo, for that debate — and Telemundo is eager to hold a forum of its own. If Telemundo schedules a Democratic forum — which the D.N.C. would help promote, as it has with other forums (including an MSNBC one this Friday in South Carolina), but would not officially sanction — it would give the Democratic candidates two major opportunities to reach Hispanic voters, a stark contrast to the Republican side now that the party has suspended its Telemundo debate. “It’s regrettable but understandable that Republicans are afraid to debate before a Hispanic-American audience given their track record that left Hispanic unemployment on the rise when the last Republican president left office, that would try to take away health care under the Affordable Care Act, and with every single one of their candidates opposing reform to fix the broken immigration system,” Luis Miranda, the D.N.C.’s communications director, said in a statement. After Mitt Romney won 27 percent of the Hispanic vote in 2012, the Republican Party made Hispanic outreach a key goal of 2016, making suspending Telemundo as a debate partner particularly problematic. At a private meeting of Republican campaigns Sunday night in Alexandria, Va., Danny Diaz, Jeb Bush’s campaign manager, lobbied to reinstate Telemundo. But Corey Lewandowski, the campaign manager for Donald J. Trump, refused, threatening to the boycott the debate. Since removing NBC News and Telemundo as a partner, the R.N.C. has not had any behind-the-scenes conversations with the Spanish-language station. But the Republican committee remains hopeful that it can work things out with NBC News and Telemundo. “What we’ve tried to tell everyone at NBC is it’s a suspension, not a cancellation, so we’ll see,” said Sean Spicer, communications director at the R.N.C.  The demands of the Republican candidates were outlined in a letter to the networks that was the result of their deliberations Sunday. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			