CNBC will allow the Republican presidential candidates 30-second opening and closing statements at a debate this month, bowing to the demands of Donald J. Trump and other leading candidates that they be allowed to introduce themselves.   The Oct. 28 debate at the Coors Events Center in Boulder, Colo., will last two hours, including commercials, another accommodation to Mr. Trump, who was unhappy with the length of the three-hour Republican debate last month in California. Officials from the Republican National Committee telephoned senior operatives to the campaigns on Friday to relay the news. Mr. Trump and Ben Carson, who are leading in many polls of the Republican field, led the push on the opening statements and time limit, threatening to boycott the forum if their demands were not met. “The campaigns have figured out if they act collectively they can effect change,” said one top strategist to a Republican hopeful. By moving to adjust the format, CNBC may be setting a precedent for the other media organizations sponsoring debates. The presence of Mr. Trump in the race led to record-shattering viewership of first two Republican forums. Were the provocative real estate magnate not to appear at future debates, the audience could sharply drop off.  Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. A version of this article appears in print on 10/17/2015, on page A14 of the NewYork edition with the headline: CNBC Meets Trumpu2019s Terms for Debate. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			