Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. took his prolonged and increasingly speculated-upon flirtation with entering the 2016 presidential race to new heights on Thursday when he bantered with reporters outside his residence who were peppering him with questions on whether he’ll run. He found several different ways to essentially say, “No comment,” although Mr. Biden indicated he might soon be ready to say more. Seconds after the vice president walked out of his residence at the Naval Observatory in Northwest Washington on Thursday to await the arrival of President Park Geun-hye of South Korea, who was joining him for lunch, journalists began asking if he was running. “I’ll answer in Korean,” he said with a smile. Then he tried another strategy. “I can’t hear you,” he told a reporter who had asked if he had made a decision yet, then stood silently when she repeated the question. This reporter then asked if there was still an opening in the race for him, to which Mr. Biden replied: “I’m here to greet President Park. I’ll talk to you all about that later.” When will “later” be, he was asked? “I’ll tell you what,” Mr. Biden said, as the reporters leaned in. “Good to see you all.” The 40-second exchange did not provide many hints about the vice president’s political plans, which have been the subject of incessant rumors recently, each day bringing a new whisper that he is definitely in, definitely out, or right on the brink of announcing his intentions. But its very occurrence suggested that Mr. Biden might be ready to put all the speculation to rest. It is rare for the president or the vice president to arrive before the start of a public event when the news media is present, the better to avoid unwanted questions. On Thursday, Mr. Biden left his home to face waiting reporters nearly 10 minutes before his guest’s arrival. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			