As Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. weighs joining the Democratic presidential contest, the latest CBS News poll provides some encouraging news for him. Voters nationwide rate him highly on honesty, empathy and experience. Of course, moving from a hypothetical candidacy to a real one will likely put a dent in those numbers. But for now, the public puts him at the top of the list of six Democratic and Republican candidates tested on several qualities they say will affect their vote. Most say he cares about the needs and problems of people like them, is honest and trustworthy and has the right kind of experience to be a good president. Ben Carson, the Republican, comes in second on empathy and honesty, while Hillary Rodham Clinton is second on experience.  Donald J. Trump leads the pack on leadership, with 65 percent saying he has strong leadership qualities, followed by 55 percent who say so of Mr. Biden, 53 percent for Mrs. Clinton, 51 percent for Mr. Carson, 44 percent for Carly Fiorina and 39 percent for Senator Bernie Sanders.   Mrs. Clinton maintains a solid lead among Democratic primary voters in the race for the Democratic nomination – with or without Mr. Biden in the mix.  But she continues to be dogged by low favorability ratings and questions about her honesty and trustworthiness among voters over all, the CBS News survey finds. Thirty-three percent of registered voters say they have a favorable opinion of Mrs. Clinton, while 53 percent do not. In August, her favorable-unfavorable rating was 41 percent to 47 percent. Democratic primary voters give her a 68 percent rating for honesty and trustworthiness (compared with 85 percent for Mr. Biden), but among all voters her honesty rating plummets to 35 percent.  The first Democratic debate is set for Tuesday evening in Las Vegas. Mr. Biden has been invited to join, but only if he declares his candidacy by then.  Dalia Sussman is a member of The Times’s news surveys department. This is one of an occasional series of posts taking a deeper look at polling during this campaign cycle.
 Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			