In the days after the fatal shooting of nine black churchgoers in Charleston, S.C., in June, Senator Lindsey Graham, the Republican presidential candidate from the state, joined the calls to remove the Confederate battle flag from the State House grounds. Weeks later, it was gone. And on Thursday, as Mr. Graham was discussing the issue with reporters from The Boston Globe and its spinoff website, Boston.com, he put Massachusetts’s state flag on the hot seat. “You got an Indian with a – what’s that all about?” Mr. Graham asked, according to Boston.com. “What is that – is the guy holding a severed arm?” It is actually a free-floating arm holding a sword, floating above a blue shield emblazoned with an Indian. “I never understood what that was all about,” Mr. Graham said. Massachusetts’s flag has long raised concerns among Native Americans and some others there. It drew renewed scrutiny amid the Confederate flag debate, including in a Boston Globe column that called it “blindingly archaic,” but efforts to change it have not gained traction. Minnesota’s state flag, which depicts an Indian with a spear riding a horse past a farmer, was also criticized in the news media this summer. In June, Gov. Charlie Baker of Massachusetts, a Republican, said, “I would say if there is an interest among the players, and there are many, to have a conversation on the flag, I would certainly be happy to participate in that.”  Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			