Campaigning in New Hampshire on Sunday evening, Martin O’Malley urged the leaders in the public opinion polls, Hillary Rodham Clinton and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, to support a series of gun control measures that he has proposed. Mr. O’Malley, whose speeches have been met with praise from Democrats but who has been struggling to gain traction, has repeatedly raised the issue of gun control, particularly since the shooting of nine black congregants at a church in Charleston, S.C., in June. He has called for, among other things, reinstating the expired federal ban on assault weapons. But his calling out of Mr. Sanders and Mrs. Clinton by name comes after the shooting at a community college in Oregon on Thursday in which a gunman killed nine people. And it comes nine days before the first Democratic debate in Nevada, where he is set to share the stage with them. Mr. O’Malley has sought to draw a contrast between himself and these two candidates on the issue, particularly between himself and Mr. Sanders, the Vermont lawmaker whose record on gun control has been criticized as too soft by some Democrats. But his support for reinstating the ban on assault weapons has come as others, including Mrs. Clinton, have not made such a direct call. Citing his experience as the mayor of Baltimore, a city that had a high gun crime rate when he came into office, Mr. O’Malley said his plan would be to “cut gun violence in half in the next 10 years in the United States.” In New Hampshire, Mr. O’Malley called for fingerprinting and licensing for every person who purchases a gun and for changing the laws so that trafficking illegal guns is a federal crime. He also urged the federal government to refuse to buy guns from manufacturers that do not use all safety technology available, such as micro-stamping. “I know that not everyone in this room has made a decision about what candidate you will support,” Mr. O’Malley said. “But I also know this is New Hampshire and that some of you have. So I’m asking supporters of Senator Sanders to please urge Senator Sanders to back these four common sense provisions that I just laid out to reduce gun violence. And I am asking the supporters of Secretary Clinton to please urge Secretary Clinton to back the specific provisions that I just laid out. And I’m asking both Senator Sanders and Secretary Clinton, Governor Chafee, all of those in our race, to join me in building a new consensus.” Aides to both Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Sanders declined to comment. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			