More than 13 million people tuned in to Fox Business Network to watch the fourth Republican presidential debate on Tuesday night in Milwaukee, according to Nielsen ratings data provided on Wednesday by the business news network. The viewership was the most ever in the history of the business news network, but less than previous debates in the 2016 presidential race. The highest rated debate so far this campaign season was the first on Fox News in August, which drew 24 million viewers. A subsequent debate on CNN in September drew nearly 23 million viewers. On Tuesday, Fox Business Network tried to distinguish itself from rival CNBC, which faced a barrage of criticism for its handling of the previous Republican debate two weeks ago. That event, which  drew 14 million viewers, became a lightning rod for complaints about the focus of the questions, a perceived bias and a lack of speaking time. In the aftermath, the Republican National Committee and the individual candidates’ campaigns met to discuss changes in the format for future debates,  Fox Business was not shy about tweaking CNBC, its rival business news network, during Tuesday’s debate as it tried to emphasize its ability to focus on policy and avoid becoming part of the story. Neil Cavuto, one of the moderators, closed the debate by saying, “It wasn’t about us, it’s about them.”  The debate, which had 13.5 million viewers and received generally positive reviews, was moderated by Mr. Cavuto and Maria Bartiromo, both Fox Business Network anchors, and Gerard Baker, the editor in chief of The Wall Street Journal. The event was a big moment for Fox Business Network. Started eight years ago, the network is available in about 82 million homes, less than the 97 million homes where CNBC, CNN and Fox News are available. Fox Business Network also streamed the debate on its website FoxBusiness.com, where usage peaked at 1.4 million concurrent streams at 10:15 p.m., according to Akamai, a measurement company. That beat CNN’s 921,000 concurrent streams for its Republican debate and the 1.3 million concurrent live streams that NBC reported for the 2015 Super Bowl. By EMILY STEEL Tuesday’s debate was a high point for Fox Business Network, which worked to distinguish it from the previous debate on CNBC. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			