A document certifying a new employment position for one of Hillary Rodham Clinton’s senior aides at the State Department was signed by Mrs. Clinton’s then chief of staff, Cheryl D. Mills, according to a copy of the document provided to The New York Times on Sunday. Last week, The Times and other news outlets reported that the document was signed by Mrs. Clinton personally, based on a copy that was obtained by a conservative watchdog group. On the document, Mrs. Clinton’s name was printed above the signature in a box intended for the aide’s supervisor, but the signature itself was redacted by the State Department, according to the group, Judicial Watch. The document was part of a process undertaken in 2012 by which Mrs. Clinton’s then deputy chief of staff, Huma Abedin, began working simultaneously for the State Department, the Clinton family’s foundation, and the consulting firm Teneo. A Clinton aide on Sunday, speaking on condition of anonymity, confirmed that the signature was that of Ms. Mills, and said that it was within Ms. Mills’ duties to sign such documents on behalf of Mrs. Clinton. Ms. Abedin’s work for Teneo is under scrutiny by Republicans, who are reviewing whether it posed any conflicts of interest or whether Teneo clients received favorable treatment from State Department officials. Mrs. Clinton’s aides have defended Ms. Abedin’s employment arrangement in the past as appropriate and have said that she complied with State Department rules. But they have declined to say what role Mrs. Clinton may have played in authorizing Ms. Abedin’s multiple roles. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			