House Democrats have decided once again to participate in a House investigative committee they despise.  But unlike the Select Committee charged with investigating the 2012 terrorist attack in Benghazi, Libya, which Democrats denounced from the start as a political operation intended to harm former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, a new group investigating Planned Parenthood is one that Democrats plan to leverage from Day 1.  On Wednesday, Representative Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California, named her appointees to the group, formed by John A. Boehner in his last days as House speaker, after hidden-camera videos were revealed purporting to show Planned Parenthood employees discussing the sale of fetal tissue. As with the Benghazi committee, Democrats say they want to play watchdog to the watchdogs.  “As Republicans try to take affordable family planning and lifesaving preventive care away from millions of American women, Democrats will be in the room to fight for the truth,” Ms. Pelosi said in a prepared statement.  While the Benghazi matter only recently became a boon to Democrats as the investigative committee foundered, the base of the Democratic Party generally craves the fight to defend Planned Parenthood. The polarized politics are revealed in the names the two sides use to refer to the panel. It is officially called the Select Panel to Investigate Handling of Infant Lives; Ms. Pelosi refers to it as Republicans’ Select Committee to Attack Women’s Health. Of Ms. Pelosi’s six appointees, only one, Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, is a man. Mr. Boehner’s eight appointees were split with male and female members.  
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			