Donald J. Trump canceled a planned appearance at a South Carolina presidential candidate forum being held Friday by a conservative group, citing a business transaction he had pending. The cancellation came a day after Mr. Trump declined to correct a questioner at one of his events in New Hampshire who called President Obama a Muslim and made other anti-Muslim comments. In a statement from his campaign, Mr. Trump’s aides said he “has a significant business transaction that was expected to close Thursday. Due to the delay he is unable to attend today’s Heritage Action Presidential Forum. He sends his regrets and looks forward to being with the great people of South Carolina on Wednesday in Columbia.” Mr. Trump’s campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, declined when asked to offer details about the business transaction. After soaring in the polls and tailoring his performance toward the demands of a presidential candidacy, Mr. Trump was widely perceived as performing weakly at the debate on Wednesday in Simi Valley, Calif., hosted by CNN. The debate focused heavily on national security, and his rival Carly Fiorina won widespread praise. Mrs. Fiorina is scheduled to appear, along with many other Republican presidential candidates, at the South Carolina event. Many political watchers had questioned what would happen once Mr. Trump began to behave more like a conventional politician. The sudden cancellation at the South Carolina event, if nothing else, seemed aimed at reminding people that he isn’t a politician. It also lets him avoid a detailed policy conversation at the event.  Dan Holler, a spokesman for Heritage Action, whose slogan for the 2016 presidential race has been “Take Back America,” said it was “unfortunate” that Mr. Trump would miss an event with “thousands of voters who are coming to listen to a substantive policy discussion.” “It will be a great opportunity to talk about policy issues and address the concerns facing all Americans,” Mr. Holler said. “That’s unfortunate that Mr. Trump is unable to attend.” Mr. Holler did not immediately respond to a question about whether Mr. Trump’s campaign had given the group a more detailed reason for his absence. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			