Forcing change in Donald J. Trump’s message, as his new advisers are trying to do, is likely to take some time.  After a more surgical and precise speech about the economy and jobs in the lobby of Trump Tower after winning the New York primary, Mr. Trump was back to familiar form at rallies in Indiana and Maryland on Wednesday. He made references to Senator Ted Cruz of Texas as “Lyin’ Ted” and Hillary Clinton as “Crooked Hillary” and, when protesters interrupted, he urged security to “Get ’em outta here!” Such remarks are crowd-pleasers that send his supporters roaring, but they are a bit less focused on the troubles people face in their lives. That said, Mr. Trump did spend some of his Indiana speech addressing trade and the economy. He also praised the state’s governor, Mike Pence, a conservative favorite with whom Mr. Trump had met earlier in the day.  Elsewhere on the campaign trail, Mr. Cruz called Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio a “spoiler,” while declining to address his delegate shut-out in New York, a state where he had competed.  But the real action was in Florida, where the Republican National Committee held its spring meeting and where Mr. Trump’s aides were preparing to give presentations on Thursday. Mr. Trump’s team, thinly staffed and ill equipped for a professional delegate slog, is now preparing to work with the existing system even as his campaign questions the integrity of the rules. As for the Democrats, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, after losing by double digits to Mrs. Clinton in New York, spent a quiet day off the trail. His aides spoke for him, insisting that he would soldier on and that he had a way forward. Whether that is true is a subject of debate among Democrats.
In the meantime, some of Mrs. Clinton’s aides spoke about hoping that Mr. Sanders would tone down his criticism of her, suggesting that it is over the top. The difference between the two is that Mrs. Clinton, who is the likely nominee, has something to lose by alienating Mr. Sanders or his supporters. Mr. Sanders has very little to lose.  Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			