Hillary Clinton holds a wide lead over Donald J. Trump in a new national poll that came out shortlyÂ after the Manhattan businessman became the presumptive Republican nominee. The CNN/ORC poll, released Wednesday morning, showsÂ Mrs. Clinton with 54 percent of respondents’ support, compared with 41 percent forÂ Mr. Trump, a lead that isÂ one percentage point above her showing inÂ a similar survey in March. The poll suggested that Mrs. Clinton’s support is driven heavily by aversion toÂ a Trump candidacy: 51 percent of her supporters say their backing comesÂ more fromÂ opposition to Mr. Trump than fromÂ a preference for the Democratic candidate. But the same isÂ true for those who said they supported Mr. Trump: 57 percent saidÂ their backingÂ wasÂ driven by anÂ opposition to Mrs. Clinton. The poll shows that Mrs. Clinton’s rival, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, would hold an even wider lead over Mr. Trump than Mrs. Clinton: In a hypothetical matchup, Mr. SandersÂ would beat Mr. Trump by 16 percentage points, the poll suggested. Mr. Sanders has seized on his strong performance against Mr. Trump in polls as a mainÂ argument for keeping his candidacy alive despiteÂ Mrs. Clinton’s lead in delegates. Both Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton hope to clinch their parties’ nominations by getting the requiredÂ majority of their parties’ delegates by the last round of state contests, on June 7. The CNN/ORC poll of 1,001 adults had a margin of sampling error of 3.5 percentage points. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			