Senator Bernie Sanders’s presidential campaign replaced its California state director Wednesday, less than a month before voters in the delegate-rich state cast their primary ballots. Michael Ceraso, who had been directing the campaign’s efforts in the state, will be replaced by Robert Becker, who has run the Sanders campaign’s operations in other states. Mr. Ceraso, 34, said in an interview Wednesday that he wanted the campaign in California to devote more resources on supporting volunteers, digital initiatives and field organizing than on buying expensive television advertising. “I felt that we should be spending more on digital and more on the grass-roots team,” Mr. Ceraso said. “It just came down to a disagreement.” When asked about the change, Michael Briggs, a spokesman for the Sanders campaign, did not provide details on why Mr. Ceraso was no longer with the campaign, but he praised Mr. Becker as “one of the most seasoned and savvy people working on our campaign or any campaign.” Mr. Becker was the campaign’s Iowa state director and also worked for the campaign in New York. Recently, he had been helping Mr. Ceraso with Mr. Sanders’s efforts in California, which holds its primary on June 7. Mr. Sanders has said that he is focusing much of his resources on California in an effort to amass as many of the state’s 475 Democratic delegates as possible. A Fox News poll shows Mr. Sanders in a tight race with Mrs. Clinton in the state.  Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. A version of this article appears in print on 05/12/2016, on page A18 of the NewYork edition with the headline: West Coast Shake-up; Sanders Campaign Replaces Director in California, Weeks Before Primary. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			