CENTRAL FALLS, R.I. — If Donald J. Trump starts to soften his image, Hillary Clinton has a warning for voters. Don’t believe it. “Trump,” she said at a rally here on Saturday, “keeps saying things like, ‘Well, you know, uh, I didn’t really mean it. It was all part of my reality TV show.’” “Well, you know what?” she added. “If we buy that, shame on us. Because he’s already showed us what he believes and he’s already said what he wants to do, and he wants to go after every one of the rights we have.” On Saturday, the Clinton campaign also released a video that amounted to a highlight reel of Mr. Trump’s incendiary comments. The video said that Mr. Trump “is getting ready for an extreme makeover.” “Donald Trump wants you to forget everything he’s said,” the video said. “Don’t.” Mr. Trump’s newly installed campaign chief, Paul Manafort, assured members of the Republican National Committee on Thursday that Mr. Trump intended to reshape his image as the campaign moved forward. (On Saturday, though, Mr. Trump seemed to differ, telling voters in Connecticut that they should not expect him to begin “toning it down.”) Before coming to Rhode Island, Mrs. Clinton also campaigned in Connecticut on Saturday, holding a round-table discussion in New Haven on issues such as wages. Both states will hold their primaries on Tuesday, along with Pennsylvania, Maryland and Delaware. In a commanding position in the Democratic race, Mrs. Clinton focused on making a case against Mr. Trump and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas when she spoke to voters who gathered here in a high school gymnasium. Criticizing Mr. Trump over foreign policy, she brought up his call to temporarily bar Muslims from entering the country as well as his views on NATO and nuclear proliferation. “Loose cannons tend to misfire,” she said, “and what we have with him is the loosest of all cannons.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			