Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio has tried to stand out through his sunniness. Now he plans to warn about the danger of embracing a candidate who takes a different approach. As he searches for a toehold in the Republican race, Mr. Kasich will deliver a speech on Tuesday about the “two paths” facing voters. “Do we look at people’s fears and concerns and drive them into the ditch?” Mr. Kasich told reporters in Albany on Monday, offering a preview of the two paths. “Or do we acknowledge the fact that people do have concerns and problems, and can we give them a path to solving our problems like Americans always have?” Mr. Kasich added that the “negative approach,” as he called it, “leads to a lot of negative things: division, paranoia, hopelessness, anger.”  “The idea that all we do is lose is just a crazy notion,” he said. “This country is still very, very strong.” Those are familiar themes to people who have heard Mr. Kasich at his town-hall-style events across the country. But with limited financial resources to pay for advertising, he needs to find other ways to garner attention before the remaining primaries. He made headlines recently by declaring that Donald J. Trump was “not prepared to be president,” and the speech provides another moment for Mr. Kasich to try to set himself apart from Mr. Trump and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas.  Mr. Kasich will deliver his address at the Women’s National Republican Club in Midtown Manhattan. Chris Schrimpf, a spokesman for Mr. Kasich, said he would talk about the wrongheadedness of pursuing “a political strategy based on exploiting Americans instead of lifting them up.” Mr. Kasich will explain that those who exploit people’s fears and anger “do so to feed their own insatiable desire for fame or attention,” Mr. Schrimpf said. Invoking Mr. Trump’s slogan, Mr. Schrimpf said that approach was not making America great again. Vivian Yee contributed reporting.
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			