The lead-up to the most recent Primary Day was “Wisconsin Nice.” The lead-up to the next primary, at this rate, is “New York Nasty.” The rancor in both party contests has increased before the April 19 primary in New York, where several of the candidates have strong ties. Hillary Clinton, in a lengthy interview with Politico, hinted that her rival, Bernie Sanders, an independent senator and Democratic socialist from Vermont, is not, in fact, a Democrat. Mr. Sanders fired back at her late on Wednesday, questioning whether she is “qualified” for the job. Her campaign has signaled that it intends to make the question of qualifications central in the coming weeks. As for the Republicans, Donald J. Trump arrived to a hero’s welcome in Bethpage, on Long Island, where he appeared before a crowd of several thousand people at Grumman Studios, praising the New York Police Department and Fire Department and reminding people that his chief rival, Ted Cruz, had spoken derisively about “New York values” once upon a time. Mr. Cruz, for his part, found out what it was like to be on the other side of Bronx cheer, as he attended an event in the Bronx and stood by his “New York values” remark from earlier in the primaries. Mr. Cruz, a senator from Texas, was heckled mightily. But he is not letting that stop him. Mr. Cruz, who is targeting Republicans who he hopes to peel off from Mr. Trump and Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio, will visit a matzo factory on Thursday. But Mr. Cruz, who focused heavily on appealing to evangelical voters in Iowa, could be a difficult sell in New York, where Republicans tend to divide along socioeconomic lines more than religious ones. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			