Joining the ranks of leading Republicans who will not commit to supporting Donald J. Trump if he becomes the party’s standard-bearer, Gov. Larry Hogan of Maryland said Thursday that Mr. Trump should not be the party’s presidential nominee and that he would consider voting for another candidate in November if he is. “I’m not a Trump fan,” Mr. Hogan told The Associated Press in an interview. “I don’t think he should be the nominee. At this point in time, I have no idea who the candidates are going to be or who I’m going to vote for.” Mr. Hogan said he could barely tolerate watching the televised presidential debates and had no plans to attend the Republican national convention this summer in Cleveland. “I don’t even want to be involved,” he said. “It’s a mess. I hate the whole thing. I don’t think we have the best candidates in either party that are being put up. I don’t like the dialogue. I don’t like the things that are going on, and I’m sick of talking about it, because it’s not anything I have anything to do with.” Mr. Hogan’s remarks reflect the growing despair many Republicans feel about a presidential race they worry is already slipping from their grasp. Mr. Trump’s penchant for controversial and at times offensive comments, along with his soaring unpopularity among women and other groups of voters, have left many elected Republicans afraid to associate themselves with him. Gov. Susana Martinez of New Mexico has also declined to say she will support Mr. Trump if he is nominated, and Gov. Charlie Baker of Massachusetts and Senator Ben Sasse of Nebraska have declared that they will not. The blunt comments from Mr. Hogan, a moderate who was elected governor of his heavily Democratic state in 2014, also mark a sharp break with Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, who is Mr. Trump’s highest-profile supporter in elected office. The two governors are personal friends with a close political relationship: Mr. Christie, as chairman of the Republican Governors Association, helped Mr. Hogan get elected; Mr. Hogan endorsed Mr. Christie early in the presidential race and helped him raise money in Maryland. That relationship could grow awkward in the weeks ahead if Mr. Christie takes to the road to campaign again for Mr. Trump: Maryland’s primary is set for April 26, just over a month away. A version of this article appears in print on 03/25/2016, on page A19 of the NewYork edition with the headline: A Break From Christie; Maryland Governor Joins the List of Republicans Who Wonu2019t Back Trump. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			