In the last week, there have been numerous news accounts about reassignments and changes in the political team being put together by Jeb Bush. But when the former Florida governor’s advisers rolled out a list of staff appointments and titles this week, one name that was not on it was Chris Mottola. A veteran political advertising strategist who worked on George W. Bush’s 2004 presidential re-election campaign, Mr. Mottola is said to be an old friend of Jeb Bush’s longtime adviser, Mike Murphy. Mr. Mottola’s eventual role in the campaign once it begins next week is unclear, and a spokesman for Mr. Bush, Tim Miller, declined to comment. But two people familiar with Mr. Mottola’s current role said that he had been advising the team on messaging and strategy related to Monday’s planned campaign kickoff. If Mr. Mottola does take an official role with the campaign, among the open questions is whether he would contribute on television ads. That role is currently expected to go to Jon Downs, of FP1 Strategies. Mr. Downs’s colleague, Danny Diaz, was named campaign manager this week. Mr. Mottola did not respond to an email for comment. Mr. Bush is not expected to actually begin airing television commercials until later in the Republican contest, but his aides confirm that he will spend money on a digital ad purchase pegged to his announcement tour next week. The purchase is aimed at building his list of both grass-roots supporters and small-dollar donors.  “We want to collect as much data and information as possible,” Mr. Miller said. Follow the New York Times Politics and Washington on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			