Hillary Rodham Clinton’s decision to use Roosevelt Island, the two-mile sliver of land mashed between Queens and Manhattan, as the backdrop Saturday for her first major stump speech sent a small but noticeable ripple through the island’s previously scheduled weekend plans. For example, the Franklin D. Roosevelt Four Freedoms Park, where Mrs. Clinton will speak, rescheduled a children’s event that had been set to take place there to accommodate the Clinton team. “We made the date available by moving one event,” said Sally Minard, president of the park, adding that the Clinton campaign did not request the rescheduling of the children’s event. “Obviously, you can’t do anything in New York City without making someone unhappy.” Mrs. Clinton’s speech also happens to land on the same weekend as Roosevelt Island Day, an annual block party-type event intended to celebrate the island and its residents. “They scheduled it when they scheduled it, it happens to be the same day as Roosevelt Island Day, we’ve done this for 18 years, and it is what it is,” said Sherie Helstien, vice president of the Roosevelt Island Residents Association. Ms. Helstien was recently quoted in The New York Post as saying the Clinton event would be “horrendous logistically” for the community, which has one subway stop, the famed Roosevelt Island Tramway, and one road for vehicular traffic for people to come onto and leave the island. She suggested a large number of vehicles could be cause for concern. “We’re going to do what we do and she’s going to do what she does, and we’ll see what happens,” Ms. Helstien said. Janet Falk, a member of the residents association, said she couldn’t predict if attendance would take a hit at the Roosevelt Island celebration because of the Clinton rally. “Residents of Roosevelt Island and of New York will vote with their feet,” she said. Still, several community leaders, including Ms. Helstien, say the events have about a mile of distance between them, and there should be enough room for both Roosevelt Island Day and the Clinton speech, which is expected to draw a fair share of news media. Jeffrey Escobar, the residents association president, said Mrs. Clinton’s event should be good for the island’s reputation to fellow New Yorkers and to tourists. “If you talk to some people around the city, they might only know Roosevelt Island for the Tramway,” Mr. Escobar said. “Any exposure for us is always good.” With regard to transportation, the F train will not see a change in service, a Metropolitan Transportation Authority spokesman said. But the Tramway, which usually runs every 15 minutes during off-peak hours, will run about every seven minutes on this particular Saturday. It can carry up to 110 people per ride. Samir Dagher, 41, moved to Roosevelt Island in September. Though he said the expected influx of people on the island probably won’t affect him, he said he did not understand why Mrs. Clinton’s campaign picked the small island to officially kick off her candidacy. “Certainly, it’d be nice to do it in a place that doesn’t have only one road in,” Mr. Dagher said, comparing the access with “a big farm in Iowa.” Follow the New York Times Politics and Washington on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			