Donald J. Trump‘s wave of popularity shows no signs of abating ahead of Thursday’s debate. A new poll by CBS shows Mr. Trump continuing to lead the crowded field of candidates with support of 24 percent of prospective Republican primary voters. Former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida and Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin round out the top three with 13 percent and 10 percent. “He appears to have tapped into public anger toward Washington,” the poll found, noting that Mr. Trump has drawn strong support from voters who say they are angry.  Moreover, 79 percent feel that Mr. Trump is saying what he believes rather than what voters want to hear. He is viewed by Republicans as having a strong grasp of how to handle the economy and immigration and is seen as having the best chance to win a general election, edging out Mr. Bush.  While Mr. Trump’s support appears to be broad among different kinds of Republican primary voters, the support of those who associate themselves with the Tea Party is fueling his success. The billionaire businessman is also siphoning support away from candidates such as Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, Mr. Bush and the retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson, who voters say are their second choices after Mr. Trump. Despite his support, Mr. Trump continues to be polarizing, with high negative ratings and large numbers of Republicans saying they would be unhappy if he won the nomination. The CBS survey follows polls from Fox News and WMUR, an ABC affiliate in Manchester, N.H., on Monday that showed Mr. Trump extending his support.  While it remains early in the election cycle, national polls have added significance because only candidates in the Top 10 in an average of polls will be allowed to participate in the first Republican presidential debate on Thursday.  
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			