A “super PAC” set up by allies of Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky raised just over $3 million in the first six months of the year, according to a report filed with the Federal Election Commission on Friday — far less than most of the outside groups backing Mr. Paul’s rivals for the Republican presidential nomination. Almost half of the money came from a single donor: George Macricostas, a Nevada-based businessmen and technology entrepreneur. Most of the rest came from Jeff Yass, an investor from Pennsylvania, who contributed $1 million.  A handful of other donors — some of them also raising money directly for Mr. Paul’s campaign — made six-figure contributions, including Robert Arnott, a California investor, and Kenneth Garschina, a longtime Paul backer in New York. The super PAC, America’s Liberty, filed more than a week before the official deadline. It had about $2.7 million in cash at the end of June, according to the filing. The haul was relatively low in the high-dollar, high-stakes world of super PACs, which have taken center stage in this year’s Republican primary contest. A super PAC backing Jeb Bush announced this month that it had raised $103 million, while Senator Ted Cruz of Texas is backed by a network of super PACs that brought in $37 million. Two groups supporting Senator Marco Rubio of Florida brought in a combined $32 million. By THE NEW YORK TIMES See how the latest fund-raising numbers from the campaigns and outside groups stack up. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			