It’s not every day that President Obama gets to sign a bill into law, but on Monday, as he signed a bipartisan trade package that survived several near-death experiences, he allowed himself to daydream that it might become a habit. “I’ve gotten good at this,” Mr. Obama remarked as he engaged in the presidential ritual of writing his signature one letter at a time, each with a new pen that were later distributed to lawmakers and others who had helped to push through the measure. “This is so much fun, we should do it again.” “No, thank you!” said Representative Gerald E. Connolly, Democrat of Virginia, one of the lawmakers who joined the president on stage during the formal signing ceremony in the East Room, along with members of the Cabinet. Perhaps Mr. Connolly was referring to the legislative roller-coaster that attended the two measures – one granting Mr. Obama “fast-track” power to negotiate trade deals, and the other to help workers affected by them – featuring two Democratic revolts and several rounds of frenetic talks. On second thought, Mr. Obama conceded that he would rather avoid the nail-biting in the future. “Well, maybe not this particular piece of legislation,” he said as he went from pen to pen. It was a victory lap of sorts for Mr. Obama coming off a remarkable week that also saw the Supreme Court affirm his health care law and legalize same-sex marriage nationwide. “It’s a reminder of what we can get done even on the toughest issues when we work together in a spirit of compromise,” Mr. Obama said of trade, adding that he hoped a similar approach could yield a deal with Republicans on a major infrastructure measure.  “I do like signing bills,” he said as he signed the last of his name. Representative Ron Kind of Wisconsin, who, like Mr. Connolly, was one of the few Democrats to side with the president on the trade package, nodded his head, saying quietly, “Keep the momentum going.” 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			