A “super PAC” backing Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin has raised about $20 million from some 300 donors, the group announced on Tuesday. The announcement, coming about a week since Mr. Walker entered the crowded 2016 Republican race for president, indicates that he will have a well-financed auxiliary behind him as the early advertising wars begin to heat up this fall.  Another organization backing Mr. Walker, started in January and called Our American Revival, separately announced that it had raised about $6 million, matching what it had projected A political action committee backing former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida raised $103 million during the first half of 2015, while two groups supporting Senator Marco Rubio of Florida took on about $30 million. A network of super PACs backing Senator Ted Cruz of Texas raised about $37 million. Like other candidates, Mr. Walker delayed entering the race in part to help the super PAC, known as Unintimidated PAC, raise money, something he will be restricted from doing as a declared candidate.  “Governor Walker’s record of fighting for and winning conservative reforms is translating into tremendous grass roots and financial support from across the country,” said Keith Gilkes, the director of Unintimidated PAC. By THE NEW YORK TIMES See how the latest fund-raising numbers from the campaigns and outside groups stack up. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			