Hillary Rodham Clinton made her first visit of the campaign to northern New Hampshire on Saturday, marching in a Fourth of July parade alongside dozens of her supporters and, for the first time since she became a candidate, being met by a handful of persistent protesters.  Mrs. Clinton walked in front of a large sign with her campaign logo at the parade in Gorham, N.H., and a group of supporters chanted her name as they walked along. People along the sidewalks called out “Hillary!” to her on Main Street, urging her to shake their hands.  But there was other chanting as well, from a tall man on the sidelines who carried a sign that read “Benghazi” with red paint stains on it.  “Carpetbagger!” he called out repeatedly, a charge leveled against Mrs. Clinton when she first ran for the Senate in 2000 (and not used much since). He was joined by a half-dozen other protesters who followed her along the route in the working-class area, trying repeatedly to get her attention.  “Where were you at 3 o’clock in the morning when the phone rang!” the man yelled. “Tell us about when you were poor!”  A handful of Clinton volunteers eventually drifted toward the sidewalks, chanting her name in an effort to drown the protesters out. Mrs. Clinton never acknowledged them, as she took pictures with a group of beauty queens and stopped to talk to a wounded Marine, injured in Iraq, who was in a wheelchair and could not communicate.  “He can understand everything you say to him,” Nellie Bagli said of her 40-year-old son, Jose, who was seriously wounded in March 2006.  “I can see that in his eyes,” Mrs. Clinton said.  Ms. Bagli told reporters she lives in Florida and that the cooler climate of New Hampshire benefits her son’s health. She is unsure of whether she will support Mrs. Clinton, she said, adding that after what her son had gone through, “it’s hard to believe” what politicians say.  Mrs. Clinton’s aides, in what they said was an effort to allow voters to reach her freely without her being surrounded by a mass of reporters, kept the dozen journalists covering the event behind a length of rope carried by two campaign aides.  When the parade ended, Mrs. Clinton held up her hands in a shrug when asked whether the protesters were jarring.  At another point, she was asked the same question and said, “I’m just having a good time meeting everybody.”  Aides said they selected the location for Mrs. Clinton’s Fourth of July event because she had not visited the region yet during the campaign, and other parades were in parts of the state she had traveled to already.  Later, Mrs. Clinton made an unscheduled stop to the Northland Dairy Bar in nearby Berlin, which was fairly empty. She chatted with the patrons there, before heading toward a corner table. There were slices of pie waiting for her.  “O.K., you guys are not gonna film me eating,” Mrs. Clinton said, laughing, as she urged the reporters who were there to move on. “This is not newsworthy. Take a picture of me standing here in front of these great pies by myself. It’s a headline! It’s a headline.” Follow the New York Times Politics and Washington on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			