House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi says she disagrees with Democrats who suggest the Obama administration has been too soft on Wall Street. Having led House Democrats for a dozen years, now in the minority, Nancy Pelosi faces periodic questions about how long she wants the job. But not, she says, from young upstarts. “I don’t feel any pressure from younger members of Congress,” Ms. Pelosi of California said in an interview, adding with a laugh: “Maybe other members of Congress, but not necessarily younger members.” Ms. Pelosi is 75. Her longtime intraparty rival, the minority whip Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, is 76. (She later insisted she wasn’t referring to him, though only Mr. Hoyer among top-ranking House Democrats is older.) That wasn’t her only tart comment for fellow Democrats in a lengthy conversation about her career. She distanced herself from the views of Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who recently attacked Mary Jo White, whom President Obama appointed to lead the Securities and Exchange Commission. “People will express themselves the way they do,” she said. “That doesn’t mean they’re speaking for the party.” After battling the White House on trade last month, Ms. Pelosi defended Mr. Obama from the accusation of Ms. Warren and other liberals that his administration had been too soft on Wall Street. “The financial industry doesn’t agree with that,” Ms. Pelosi said. “There may have been a couple of people who say that, but that is not the consensus in our party.” And her desire to spur action against climate change, she said, is a major reason she wants to stay in Congress. “It’s a fight we have to make,” Ms. Pelosi said. “Our colleagues are in denial.” 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			