Aides to Hillary Clinton have expressed a range of emotions since it was revealed Friday that members of Senator Bernie Sanders’s campaign had obtained access to a database of information about her supporters. They were outraged: “Imagine if Toyota got the list of Ford, of their consumers who are most loyal. It’s outrageous,” said Joel Benenson, Mrs. Clinton’s chief strategist. They were indignant: “No one in our campaign has ever accessed anyone else’s data. I can say that definitively,” said Robby Mook, the campaign manager. By Saturday night’s debate, Mrs. Clinton herself was forgiving: “I very much appreciate that comment, Bernie,” she said after Mr. Sanders apologized for the data breach. “It really is important that we go forward on this.” But another sentiment, a mixture of resentment and hard-won experience, comes through in conversations about the episode with Mrs. Clinton’s closest advisers: She would have been treated far more harshly, they believe, had her own aides committed such a transgression. “Can you imagine?” said Jennifer Palmieri, Mrs. Clinton’s communications director. “Can you imagine? Oh, my God.” “We’d be drummed out of the race,” Ms. Palmieri added. The Sanders campaign fired one worker and suspended two others over the data breach, which was made possible by a flaw in the system that the Democratic National Committee uses to store such information. But so far there have been few calls for the ouster of more senior campaign officials – something that Clinton aides have noticed. “If this had been something the Clinton camp had done, there would have been a very different reaction,” Jim Margolis, Mrs. Clinton’s ad maker, told Politico. They may have a point. Mrs. Clinton’s opponents on the right – and some on the left – would almost certainly have used such a breach as fresh evidence of the dishonesty and underhanded scheming that their detractors have long associated with the Clintons. “She lies about emails, she lies about Whitewater, she lies about everything,” Donald J. Trump told NBC on Monday, in response to Mrs. Clinton’s assertion in the debate Saturday that Mr. Trump was aiding recruitment by the Islamic State. It is a difficult perception to shake: Despite her being the front-runner for the Democratic nomination, polls show a majority of Americans say they do not trust Mrs. Clinton. Then again, her critics can discern impure motives in just about anything Mrs. Clinton says or does. Her lighthearted “May the force be with you” line at the end of the debate prompted some critics to link it to the fact that the director of the new “Star Wars” movie, J.J. Abrams, and his wife had donated $1 million to Priorities USA, a group supporting Mrs. Clinton’s campaign. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			