The “super PAC” supporting Carly Fiorina’s presidential campaign, Carly for America, has been more involved in the day-to-day running of a campaign apparatus than most other candidates’ super PACs.  The group has taken care of arranging tables outside events, setting up staging, gathering voter information and taking on other tasks typically handled by a campaign.  The exact amount the super PAC has saved Mrs. Fiorina’s campaign is hard to quantify, but the most recent Federal Election Commission filings offer a hint.  Of the $2.2 million Mrs. Fiorina spent last quarter, only about $27,000 was spent on the hosting of events — venue rental, equipment rental, catering and the like. This amount does not include travel, which the candidate would incur no matter the type of event.  Her rivals’ spending in this area was much higher. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida spent nearly $250,000 holding events during the third quarter. Senator Ted Cruz of Florida spent about $192,000 in the same period. Mrs. Fiorina has, perhaps more than other candidates, spoken at events held by outside groups, sparing her all costs except for showing up, and the events she holds tend to be simple town-hall-style meetings. Yet the gap in event spending is one peek into the advantage of outsourcing some traditional campaign tasks to a super PAC. Another telling sign is the total number of expenditures. Campaigns have to log every time they spend money, whether on ads, rentals or a coffee at Starbucks. Jeb Bush’s filing had 4,993 such listings. Mr. Cruz’s had 2,012, and Mr. Rubio’s 2,952 entries. Mrs. Fiorina’s filing had 679.   
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			