A Latino “super PAC,” the Latino Victory Fund, announced three Democrats as its first co-chairs on Monday — Representative Joaquín Castro of Texas; Melissa Mark-Viverito, the New York City Council speaker; and Antonio Villaraigosa, the former mayor of Los Angeles. The Latino Victory Fund is the super PAC of the Latino Victory Project — a nonpartisan organization devoted to supporting Latino candidates and increasing turnout of Latino voters — and it plans to aggressively push back against candidates, nationally and locally, whose policies it believes will harm the Latino population. A recent ad by the group, for instance, featured Latinos speaking to the camera and reciting some of the more inflammatory statements 2016 Republican presidential hopefuls have made. (The group also produced a Spanish-language version.) The group also plans to join other Hispanic organizations at a “my country, my vote” rally in Boulder, Colo., on Wednesday — the day of the Republican debate there — to counter what they see as hateful speech toward their population, as well as to encourage Latinos to get more politically involved. “Latinos make up 17 percent of the population, but only 1 percent of all elected officials,” said Cristóbal J. Alex, the president of Latino Victory Fund, in an emailed statement. “We are excited to have Speaker Mark-Viverito, Mayor Villaraigosa and Congressman Castro join Latino Victory Fund as honorary co-chairs to help increase the number of Latino elected officials,” Mr. Alex wrote. “These three outstanding Latino leaders have been at the forefront in empowering and fighting for the Hispanic community, and have led the charge on supporting issues that are important to our families.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			