Donald J. Trump has tapped into intense anger and anti-immigrant sentiment by part of the American electorate, exciting people who have paid little attention to politics and drawing approval from groups that some would consider to be fringe. While the Republican presidential candidate has at times fanned those flames, on Wednesday night he took the rare step of “disavowing” the endorsement of a prominent white nationalist who supports Mr. Trump’s ban on Muslim immigration and who said the United States needs more white immigrants who can assimilate. “We don’t need Muslims,” says Jared Taylor, founder of the white supremacist New Century Foundation, in a robocall that has been playing in Iowa. “We need smart, well-educated white people who will assimilate to our culture. Vote Trump.” When the clip was played for Mr. Trump during a CNN interview, the billionaire businessman said that it did not surprise him but that he does not support that sentiment. “Nothing in this country shocks me,” Mr. Trump told Erin Burnett. “I would disavow it, but nothing in this country shocks me. People are angry.” The robocall was paid for by the American National “super PAC” and features Mr. Taylor urging voters to support Mr. Trump because he is the only candidate who argues that the United States should only accept immigrants who are good for the country. Mr. Trump has made building a wall along the border with Mexico and deporting people who have come to the country illegally a hallmark of his campaign. His depiction of immigrants from Mexico and the Middle East as criminals and terrorists has drawn praise from white nationalist groups such as Stormfront and from well-known white supremacists like David Duke. “They’re very angry about it,” Mr. Trump said after mentioning cases of undocumented immigrants harming American citizens. “So, I would disavow that, but I will tell you people are extremely angry.” Pressed as to whether he specifically disagrees with the idea that the United States needs smart, well-educated white people who will assimilate, Mr. Trump said he rejected the notion. “How many times do you want me to say it?” Mr. Trump said. “I said I disavow.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			