As President Obama held a town-hall-style event in Virginia on Thursday evening to discuss his executive actions on gun control, one of his loudest critics, Donald J. Trump, promised a crowd of more than 1,400 people in Burlington, Vt., that he would eliminate gun-free zones in schools on his first day in office. The two events express the divide between the two presidential primary races on the issue of guns, which have been a focal point since the fatal shooting in June of nine churchgoers in Charleston, S.C., the site of next week’s Republican debate. Mr. Obama’s proposals for curbing the accessibility of guns — a move he said he was forced to take because previous efforts stalled in Congress — had support from 67 percent of people surveyed in a CNN poll released on Thursday.  But the split-screen debates in the two party primaries tell a different story. Among the three Democratic primary candidates, there has been an effort to talk about the importance of adding gun control measures — and Hillary Clinton and Martin O’Malley have faulted Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, a state with a thriving gun culture, for his record on the issue.  Among Republicans, there has been very little distinguishing the candidates in their language about Mr. Obama’s measures. Almost uniformly, they have criticized what they have called a government overreach. Few have gone as far as Mr. Trump did in Burlington, where Mr. Sanders is a former mayor. The general election may tell whether that divide can be bridged. Donald J. Trump, the Republican presidential candidate, told a crowd in Burlington, Vt., on Thursday that the executive actions on gun control signed by President Obama can be undone by the next president. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			