In a campaign that has been overshadowed and altered by Donald J. Trump, the debate has focused heavily on immigration and on a general disgust with Washington. But Tuesday was a rare day that was thick with policy substance and increased tensions among candidates. Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont laid out a plan for overhauling Wall Street. Hillary Clinton outlined one to improve access to treatment for and prevention of autism. Jeb Bush talked openly about drugs, his daughter’s struggles with addiction and how he would combat the scourge as president. Mr. Trump also talked about the drug epidemic in New Hampshire, a topic that most of the candidates have focused on in recent weeks. But it was also a day of rancor, as Mr. Trump arched an eyebrow about Senator Ted Cruz of Texas’s birthplace, Canada, and what that could mean for the viability of his candidacy. (Mr. Cruz, whose mother was a United States citizen, laughed off the criticism.) Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey punched back hard at Senator Marco Rubio of Florida for coating the race in “slime” as an outside group supporting Mr. Rubio aired attack ads against Mr. Christie. The dominant issue among Republicans in New Hampshire, however, was President Obama’s call for executive actions on guns, after previous efforts failed in Congress. Several Republicans criticized Mr. Obama, although Mr. Christie, whose record in New Jersey is coming under scrutiny and who has said that Mr. Obama was acting like a child for moving on the issue on his own, was mum for the day. So the stage is set for the days leading up to the debates next week. With supporters of both Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Sanders saying the race in Iowa is closer than people think, the debate looms large. As for the Republicans, who will convene in Charleston, S.C., there is no longer much incentive to play nice.  Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			