NORWALK, Iowa — Donald J. Trump basked in the glow of his Sarah Palin endorsement on Wednesday, proclaiming that her support, combined with criticism of Senator Ted Cruz from Iowa’s Republican governor, was a turning point for him in the state ahead of the caucuses. “That was a good day for Trump,” Mr. Trump said before a crowded room full of supporters on the outskirts of Des Moines. But the billionaire developer showed no signs of letting up. He implored Iowans to take the time to caucus on Feb. 1, even if they are sick or having the worst day of their lives. In remarks that lasted more than 40 minutes, Mr. Trump also blended his standard recitation of strong poll numbers with sharpened attack lines against Mr. Cruz, his top competitor in Iowa. “He’s two-faced,” Mr. Trump said, decrying his positions on ethanol subsidies before going on an extended rant about Mr. Cruz’s Canadian roots and eligibility to be president. “The great legal scholars, the real legal scholars, are saying Trump was right.” While the relatively intimate audience of a few hundred people was enthused to hear from Mr. Trump, his criticism of Mr. Cruz largely fell on silence. Some were also disappointed that Mrs. Palin was not in attendance. Like the Tuesday night endorsement rally, tickets to the event billed “a special guest” and the campaign had issued a press release stating that the former Alaska governor would be there. Campaign staff members said on Wednesday that they did not know where she was. “It would have been nice if she had been up there, too,” said Gary Cruchelow, 55, of West Des Moines. Mr. Trump concluded a rare two-day swing in Iowa, spending the night in the state instead of flying home to Manhattan, as he makes a last push to persuade people to back him. Despite the freezing temperatures, Mr. Trump said the state has really grown on him. “I stayed here last night and I actually had good steak,” he said. “If they don’t have good steak in Iowa, you have some problems.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			