Faced with an online backlash, a member of the National Rifle Association’s board deleted comments Friday criticizing the Rev. Clementa C. Pinckney, a South Carolina lawmaker who was one of the nine people shot and killed  in the attack on his church in Charleston on Wednesday night. The N.R.A. official, Charles L. Cotton, argued in an online discussion that Mr. Pinckney, a state senator, bore some responsibility for the other deaths because he had opposed a change to South Carolina’s gun laws that would have made it legal to carry a concealed weapon into a church. Writing on a forum that he administers for supporters of concealed handgun licensing, Mr. Cotton, a lawyer in Houston, observed that Mr. Pinckney had “voted against concealed-carry.” “Eight of his church members who might be alive if he had expressly allowed members to carry handguns in church are dead,” Mr. Cotton wrote. Although Mr. Cotton did not explain why he deleted the comments or reply to an interview request, Andrew Arulanandam, an N.R.A. spokesman, said in an email that “board members do not speak for the N.R.A.” Mr. Cotton’s comments attracted attention outside the forum after they were copied and shared by Shannon Watts, who founded the Facebook advocacy group Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America the day after a gunman killed 26 people, including 20 children, at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., in 2012. #NRA Board Member Charles Cotton blames victim for his death and deaths of congregants. #CharlestonShooting #gunsense pic.twitter.com/72EqzuEPBT — Shannon (@shannonrwatts) June 19, 2015  Ms. Watts said in a telephone interview that Mr. Cotton had “a habit of posting these incendiary comments and then removing them.” She added that her group’s South Carolina chapter had worked with Mr. Pinckney on legislation to keep guns out of the hands of domestic abusers. In his remarks, Mr. Cotton appeared to be referring to a bill, supported by the N.R.A., that would have removed bans on carrying concealed handguns into churches, preschools and hospitals in South Carolina and that failed to make it through the State Senate last month. It appears, however, that Mr. Pinckney did not have the chance to vote against the measure, which was approved overwhelmingly by the lower house of the South Carolina Legislature but was held up in a Senate committee. On his firm’s website, Mr. Cotton takes credit for having written a bill passed by the Texas Legislature in 2011 that brought “sweeping protection against frivolous lawsuits and unnecessary, politically motivated regulation targeting sport shooting ranges.” Follow the New York Times Politics and Washington on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			