The Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton said on Wednesday in Waterloo, Iowa, that Donald J. Trump’s plan to block Muslims from entering the United States was "not only shameful; it's dangerous." WATERLOO, Iowa – Hillary Clinton’s campaign has used Donald J. Trump’s proposal to bar non-American Muslims from entering the United States as a fund-raising and organizing tool, selling a special edition “Love Trumps Hate” bumper sticker and texting supporters a link to a letter from Mrs. Clinton declaring her support for religious freedom. But at a town-hall-style meeting here on Wednesday, Mrs. Clinton delivered her toughest and most somber critique yet of Mr. Trump’s plan.  “It’s O.K. to be afraid. There’s no reason not to be afraid,” she told the crowd. “When bad things happen it does cause anxiety and fear, but then you pull yourself together and, especially if you want to be a leader of a country, you say, ‘What are we going to do about it? How are we going to be prepared?’” “But instead of showing leadership, some of the candidates in this campaign are really resulting in ugly, hateful rhetoric,” she added. “Donald Trump, you know, he does traffic in prejudice and paranoia. It’s not only shameful, it’s dangerous.” She said Mr. Trump’s proposed ban on Muslims “runs counter to what I, and others who have actually been in the Situation Room, making hard choices, know what we have to do.” Mrs. Clinton had previously denounced Mr. Trump before quickly trying to link his opinions to the rest of the Republican field. But on Wednesday, she singled out Mr. Trump, saying he was harming the nation’s ability to fight the rise of the Islamic State. “We have to enlist help from American Muslims, Muslims around the world, in defeating the radical jihadist and the hateful ideology,” she said. “Instead, Donald Trump is providing them with propaganda. He is playing right into their hands.” “The vast majority of Muslims here and abroad are on our side in this fight,” Mrs. Clinton continued. “They are the primary victims of the attacks and the brutality coming from these terrorist organizations.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			