Jeb Bush said the United States “should declare war” as it responds to the Paris attacks and the rise of ISIS in general. “You take it to them in Syria and Iraq,” Mr. Bush said Sunday on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” when asked how the United States could expect to “defeat an ideology.” “You destroy ISIS,” he continued. “And then you build a coalition to replace this radical Islamic terrorist threat to our country and to Europe and to the region with something that is more peace-loving.” The host, Chuck Todd, asked Mr. Bush what he would tell an American public that is wary of foreign entanglements after wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. (Mr. Todd did not mention the fact that those wars began under Mr. Bush’s brother.) “I tell the American public that a caliphate the size of Indiana garners strength each and every day if it’s not taken out,” Mr. Bush replied. Mr. Bush, the former governor of Florida, has long sought to establish himself as the adult figure in a raucous Republican field, and his supporters hope that a greater focus on national security issues could provide an opening for a campaign that has struggled. On Sunday, Mr. Bush hinted at the shifting tenor of the race, with some prodding from Mr. Todd, arguing that “as we get closer to the primaries, people are going to want to know who can sit behind the big desk.” He was asked if he would trust Donald J. Trump or Ben Carson as commander in chief. “I don’t know,” Mr. Bush said. “The words that I hear them speaking give me some concern.” But he turned quickly to focusing on Hillary Rodham Clinton, seizing on comments she made during the Democratic debate on Saturday. Mrs. Clinton said during the debate that the fight against ISIS “cannot be an American fight,” before adding that “American leadership is essential.” “I’m more concerned about Hillary Clinton thinking that the United States doesn’t have a leadership role in this,” Mr. Bush said after the question about his Republican rivals. “That’s my big concern.” 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			