Jennifer M. Granholm, the former governor of Michigan, will leave the big-money “super PAC” supporting Hillary Rodham Clinton’s presidential candidacy and take a role with another outside group backing Mrs. Clinton. The move represents a smoothing of the lines of responsibility among the outside groups supporting Mrs. Clinton, who is running with a large chunk of support from the Democratic Party establishment. It also positions Ms. Granholm for a potentially larger role with the Democratic Party down the road, said two people who were briefed on the move and spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations. Ms. Granholm will join Correct the Record, the group created by the Clinton ally David Brock. That group is coordinating with the campaign, and her new role as its senior adviser means Ms. Granholm can act as a surrogate for Mrs. Clinton. The campaign wanted her make such a move, according to one of the people briefed on the matter. Correct the Record has been trying to fill the gap in the number of surrogates, particularly women, it has to vouch for Mrs. Clinton in an increasingly contentious campaign. The move was announced by Mr. Brock on Twitter. Thrilled to welcome @JenGranholm to @CorrectRecord as a senior advisor and surrogate. Welcome aboard Governor! — David Brock (@davidbrockdc) August 14, 2015  Until now, Ms. Granholm had been a co-chairwoman on the board of Priorities USA, the super PAC that’s raising multimillion-dollar checks to support Mrs. Clinton’s bid. Ms. Granholm was part of early efforts to raise funds for the group before Mrs. Clinton became a candidate in the spring. Priorities is barred by law from coordinating with the Clinton campaign. Ms. Granholm’s departure from the board was announced on Twitter by Guy Cecil, the Clinton loyalist who recently took over as head of Priorities. Thank you @JenGranholm for your contributions to @prioritiesusa. Hillary's lucky to have you speaking out for her. https://t.co/eUI5TJ9R1p — Guy Cecil (@guycecil) August 14, 2015  After months of in-fighting and difficulties trying to jumpstart fund-raising at Priorities, Mr. Brock, who recently rejoined the Priorities board, and Mr. Cecil are trying to usher in a new era. The group raised more than $15 million in the first six months of the year. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			