MOBILE, Ala. – By midday Friday, with the temperature in the high 80s, Keith Quackenbush and Bill Hart decided it was time to buy an $89 pop-up tent from a nearby Walmart. It was how, they said, they were going to endure the wait outside a football stadium ahead of an appearance by Donald J. Trump, the Republican presidential candidate. The two had arrived outside Ladd-Peebles Stadium before 7 a.m. on Friday, more than 12 hours before Mr. Trump’s scheduled rally. “We’re tired of seeing what’s going on with our country,” Mr. Quackenbush, 54, a retail manager from Pensacola, Fla., said as he waited in a lawn chair. “We’re tired of politicians running their lips, doing nothing, promising everything and doing absolutely nothing.” Mr. Quackenbush and Mr. Hart, whose tent included an American flag and a “Don’t tread on me” flag, were hardly alone in the Alabama heat.  Behind them, Amanda Mancini, 33, said she had flown in from California to see Mr. Trump. Behind her, just beyond the tent’s shade, a black woman wearing a University of Alabama shirt waited quietly, followed soon after by a white man sporting Auburn University paraphernalia. And so it went, with plenty of chatter about just how many people would actually show up to a stadium with a capacity of more than 40,000. “We completely rearranged our schedule,” said Mr. Hart, 46, who works with Mr. Quackenbush. “It was like: ‘Oh, no. Got to be there if Trump’s that close.’” He added, “I’ve never stood in line for a phone. I’ve never stood in line for a Black Friday event. There’s been stuff I wanted, but nothing’s been worth waiting for. But I see a big change coming for the country, and I want to be part of the change.” 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			