​A speech at the National Prayer Breakfast in 2013 that started rumblings about a Ben Carson presidential campaign also began a lucrative speaking career.  Mr. Carson, a retired neurosurgeon, earned $4.1 million from 141 speeches from early 2014 to last month, according to a personal financial disclosure he filed on Thursday afternoon with the Federal Election Commission.   Mr. Carson planned to continue accepting speaking fees after he announced he was running on May 4, which risked putting him afoul of campaign finance laws.  He said on Sunday he would give four more speeches, booked before he entered the Republican primary race. “When people have gone through a lot of trouble getting sponsors and selling tables, you don’t just walk,’’ Mr. Carson said on ABC’s “This Week.’’ Mr. Carson’s total reported income, along with his wife, Candy, was from $8.9 million to $27 million in the 16 months preceding his announcement, according to the disclosure. Beside speeches, he reported income from $1.1 million to $6 million from book royalties, and from $2 million to $10 million from serving on the boards of two corporations, Kellogg and Costco. He has since resigned those seats.  He was also paid from $100,000 to $1 million by the Fox News Network.   Mr. Carson, who in a Quinnipiac poll last week was in a five-way tie for first place for the Republican nomination, has captured voters’ attention with conservative views and a personal story of climbing from poverty to the heights of the medical field. After criticizing President Obama at the 2013 Prayer Breakfast, while the president sat nearby, Mr. Carson retired from Johns Hopkins and took advantage of the flood of speaking offers.  He joined the Washington Speakers Bureau, where his fees ranged from $16,500 to address Dayspring Christian Academy in Lancaster County, Pa., to $44,500 for a speech at the University of the Southwest in Hobbs, N.M. Another prolific speaker, Hillary Rodham Clinton, who typically earned about $200,000 a speech, far more than Mr. Carson, delivered her last paid address on March 19, a month before announcing her candidacy.
​ 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			