Donald J. Trump has been ruffling feathers with Hispanics with his tough talk on immigration, but on Tuesday the Republican presidential candidate took a step to try to smooth things over.  Mr. Trump invited Javier Palomarez, president of the United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, to his Manhattan office for a meeting to clear the air. Each were joined by two staff members for a 90-minute meeting that Mr. Palomarez described as surprisingly cordial and productive. “He was very mannerly, very hospitable and never once did he interrupt me,” Mr. Palomarez said, noting that Mr. Trump listened more than he talked during the meeting.  Mr. Trump declined to comment, but his spokeswoman acknowledged that the meeting took place.  Mr. Palomarez said that he had expressed his disapproval with Mr. Trump’s plan to build a wall along the border with Mexico and to deport millions of immigrants in the country illegally. He also explained to Mr. Trump that such moves would severely cost the construction and hospitality industries, which rely on the labor of immigrants. Mr. Trump politely disagreed, Mr. Palomarez said, and made the case that undocumented workers were imposing significant costs on the United States economy. While Mr. Palomarez said he was not endorsing Mr. Trump, he did express “shock” at how friendly the conversation was and and said he was impressed with the candidate. “He was not combative, he was not rude,” Mr. Palomarez said. “He was a complete gentleman.” Despite the warmer feelings, differences remain.  Mr. Palomarez said that when he and Mr. Trump discussed the idea of the chamber holding its convention in Miami next year, Mr. Trump suggested that it be held at the Trump National Doral Resort there. Given Mr. Trump’s recent tone toward Hispanics, Mr. Palomarez said, such a choice was unlikely.  Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			