Former Senator Tom Harkin, a fixture in Iowa Democratic politics for over four decades, discouraged Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. on Wednesday from entering the presidential race, suggesting that Hillary Rodham Clinton, if elected, could name him to a top diplomatic post instead. Mr. Harkin, who served with Mr. Biden in the Senate for nearly 25 years and is now supporting Mrs. Clinton’s campaign, said the vice president should not risk ending his career with what would be a third bid for the presidency. “He has served the country so well and been a good friend of mine — I love Joe,” Mr. Harkin said in a phone interview.  “I just don’t think this would be a wise move.” Without prompting, Mr. Harkin added that there were “other ways Joe can serve the country.” “With Hillary as president, I can see him being secretary of state or ambassador to the United Nations,” he said. “There are a lot of things he can do down the road that would be of valuable service to the country or the world.” Mr. Harkin endorsed Mrs. Clinton to much fanfare this month at the Iowa State Fair, a signature event on the state’s political calendar. Asked if Mrs. Clinton’s campaign pushed him to come out for her as a warning to Mr. Biden, Mr. Harkin said he had told Mrs. Clinton earlier in the year that he was going to support her. Shortly before the fair, he said, he got a call from Mrs. Clinton’s Iowa director asking him if he was ready to go public with his support.  Mr. Harkin’s comments about Mr. Biden, 72, come as the vice president has entered a new phase of aggressively considering a presidential run, arranging meetings with operatives and contacting donors.  Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			