With the tide flowing in President Obama’s favor on the Iran nuclear deal, the architect of legislation that gave Congress a say in its approval is none too happy about the possibility that the accord may never reach a final vote. Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said on Tuesday that it would be a travesty if Democrats filibustered any resolution disapproving of the accord between Iran and six world powers. The Senate this spring voted, 98 to 1, in favor of the Iran Review Act, which gave Congress the right to vote on a resolution of approval or disapproval of a final deal. “Ninety-eight senators voted to give themselves the right to vote on this,” he said. “Surely they are not going to deny themselves a final vote on the deal.” A few weeks ago, the chances of a successful filibuster appeared remote. By mid-September, Republican leaders plan to bring resolutions of disapproval to the floor of the House and Senate. With so much skepticism of the deal, the question wasn’t whether opponents would muster the 60 Senate votes to cut off debate and bring the bill to a vote, but whether they would find 67 votes to override President Obama’s promised veto. That was underscored by Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the heir apparent to be the party’s Senate leadership, who announced his opposition to the deal. But since Mr. Schumer came out for a veto override, only one other Democrat has followed suit, Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey, whose opposition surprised nobody. Now a filibuster is a very real possibility. “To block a vote on the deal would be a fascinating turn of events at a minimum,” Mr. Corker said.  In fact, the Iran Review Act was about much more than a final up-or-down vote. It mandated an extended period to review the accord’s details, demanded classified and unclassified briefings and opened the process to review. Those mandates have been met, and White House officials showed little sympathy for Mr. Corker’s lament, also voiced by Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas and a fierce critic of the deal even before it was reached. Nowhere did the review act forbid a filibuster. “If Senator Cotton has an issue with what his own colleagues agreed to, he should probably take it up with them,” said Eric Schultz, a White House spokesman. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			