Updated, 9:52 p.m. | Hillary Rodham Clinton’s campaign released a letter on Friday from her doctor attesting to Mrs. Clinton’s good health and fitness to serve as president based on a full medical evaluation. The letter from Dr. Lisa Bardack of Mount Kisco, N.Y., summarized Mrs. Clinton’s history of treatment for a brain concussion, blood clots affecting her legs and brain on separate occasions, an underactive thyroid gland and a family history of heart disease. Mrs. Clinton, 67, regularly takes thyroid hormone to bring her levels to normal as well as the anticoagulant drug Coumadin to help prevent new blood clots, Dr. Bardack wrote. Mrs. Clinton also takes antihistamine drugs for seasonal pollen allergies and vitamin B-12. Mrs. Clinton has faced questions about her health since 2012, when, as secretary of state, she suffered a concussion and a blood clot — known as a transverse sinus venous thrombosis — in her brain. Those were a result of a series of events caused by a stomach virus Mrs. Clinton acquired while traveling abroad. While alone in her home after returning, she became dehydrated and then fell from a faint, striking her head. She subsequently experienced double vision and temporarily wore glasses with a Fresnel Prism to ease the difficulty with her eyesight. Mrs. Clinton was treated at George Washington University Hospital in Washington, and then went to NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia hospital in Manhattan before returning to her home in Chappaqua, N.Y. The concussion symptoms and double vision resolved within two months and Mrs. Clinton stopped using the prism, Dr. Bardack wrote. But former President Bill Clinton told a reporter that his wife’s concussion “required six months of very serious work to get over” and that she had “never lowballed” the severity of her head injury. Follow-up testing in 2013 showed “complete resolution of the effects of the concussion, as well as total dissolution” of the blood clot, Dr. Bardack wrote. Mrs. Clinton did not release statements from a neurologist, neurosurgeon or other specialist involved in her medical care in Washington or New York. Mrs. Clinton is the first presidential candidate in this cycle to make public a medical history. But in the past many candidates have released copies of extensive records, agreed to personal interviews or allowed their doctors to be interviewed. Nick Merrill, a spokesman for Mrs. Clinton, did not reply to an email request to interview Dr. Bardack. While Mrs. Clinton experienced blood clots in 1998, 2009 and 2012, tests showed that she did not have any underlying disorder that put her at an increased risk of the clots. Tests are performed to monitor the dose of Coumadin she takes and ensure that she has not experienced side effects, Dr. Bardack wrote. Mrs. Clinton’s electrocardiogram was reported as normal, as were her blood lipids. Cancer screening tests, including mammography, breast ultrasound, colonoscopy and gynecological examination were normal. Dr. Bardack did not disclose Mrs. Clinton’s height and weight, which are standard items in medical histories. She said Mrs. Clinton eats a diet rich in lean protein, vegetables and fruits. She exercises regularly, including yoga, swimming, walking and weight training. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. A version of this article appears in print on 08/01/2015, on page A15 of the NewYork edition with the headline: No Serious Health Issues for Clinton, Her Doctor Reports . 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			