Advertisement By ALAN RAPPEPORTSEPT. 15, 2016
 Donald Trump Jr. invoked Holocaust imagery when complaining about media favoritism given toward Hillary Clinton, arguing that if Republicans lied the way Democrats do, the press would be “warming up the gas chamber right now.” The Trump campaign has been complaining aggressively that the mainstream media is working against the candidacy of Donald J. Trump, who has recently been giving most of his interviews to conservative outlets. In an interview with a Philadelphia radio station on Wednesday, the younger Mr. Trump said that the media has built up Mrs. Clinton and that it is her No. 1 surrogate. “They’ve let her slide on every discrepancy, on every lie, on every D.N.C. game trying to get Bernie Sanders out of this thing,” said Mr. Trump, the candidate’s oldest son, alluding to the Democratic National Committee. “If Republicans were doing that, they’d be warming up the gas chamber right now.” The comments come as the Trump campaign has faced criticism for failing to sufficiently disavow support from the so-called alt-right movement, a group widely considered white supremacists and who often express anti-Semitic views. Advertisement Last week, Donald Trump Jr. drew a backlash for pushing back against Mrs. Clinton’s “basket of deplorables” comment by posting on Instagram an image that included Pepe the Frog. The frog is a popular alt-right symbol. Advertisement Holocaust references can be something of a third rail in American politics. Last year Republicans called on Mike Huckabee to apologize when he said that President Obama’s Iran policy would “take the Israelis and march them to the door of the oven.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The gas chamber comment was quickly picked up in the Israeli press and critics of Mr. Trump, such as the independent presidential candidate Evan McMullin, who said that the statement was revealing. “An unsurprising Nazi reference from the ‘alt-right’ movement’s presidential campaign,” Mr. McMullin wrote in a post on Twitter. “This is the real Trump.” The Anti-Defamation League also scolded Donald Trump Jr. for showing a lack of sensitivity about the Holocaust. 
            .@DonaldJTrumpJr: Trivialization of the Holocaust and gas chambers is NEVER okay. https://t.co/jL2ZC9Z8pH  The group, which works to combat anti-Semitism, called on him to retract his comment. A spokesman for the Trump campaign, Jason Miller, said that Mr. Trump’s words were being twisted for political purposes. “Don Jr. was clearly referring to capital punishment to make the case that the media continues to take words out of context in order to serve as the propaganda arm of the Hillary Clinton campaign,” Mr. Miller said. Donald Trump Jr.’s sister, Ivanka, is a convert to Judaism. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »