Advertisement By THE NEW YORK TIMESJULY 18, 2016
 The Republican National Convention began in Cleveland on Monday. Watch our full video coverage. Donald J. Trump accepted the Republican presidential nomination in Cleveland on Thursday, presenting himself as the savior needed for a doomed nation. Donald J. Trump accepted the Republican presidential nomination with an emphatic appeal to Americans who feel that their country is spiraling out of control. Donald J. Trump’s eldest daughter, Ivanka, introduced the Republican presidential nominee on Thursday night. In her speech, Ms. Trump offered a different tone than most of the other convention speakers. Peter Thiel, the billionaire Silicon Valley venture capitalist and entrepreneur, spoke at the Republican National Convention in Cleveland on Thursday. The riots that so many expected to accompany the crowning of Donald J. Trump as the Republican presidential nominee in Cleveland did not materialize. Instead, the convention ended with relative calm. Donald Trump’s daughter Ivanka played an active role in his campaign, while his wife, Melania, preferred to take a back seat. The Times’s Jennifer Steinhauer explains how Ivanka Trump "whispers in his ear." Senator Ted Cruz of Texas said Thursday that he is not “in the habit of supporting people who attack my wife and attack my father,” in regard to his decision not to formally endorse Donald J. Trump the night before. The Times graphics editor Tim Wallace observes a day of protests on Wednesday at the Republican National Convention in Cleveland. If the convention has any stars, it’s Donald J. Trump's children. And their presence reflects the influence they have on their father and his presidential campaign. On the third day of the Republican convention, the refusal by Senator Ted Cruz to endorse Donald J. Trump widened cracks in the party’s veneer. Senator Ted Cruz’s speech was a striking snub on the eve of Donald J. Trump’s formal acceptance of the party’s nomination. Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana, the Republican nominee for vice president, delivered what may have been the only speech that closely resembled the typical presentation at a convention. Dozens of demonstrators erected a cloth wall outside the Republican National Convention in symbolic protest of Donald J. Trump’s controversial proposal to build a wall between the U.S. and Mexico. Donald J. Trump, the Republican presidential nominee, presented his vice-presidential pick, Gov. Mike Pence. Donald J. Trump landed in Cleveland on Wednesday afternoon, first in his signature plane and then again minutes later in his helicopter at a press event with his running mate, Mike Pence. Paul Manafort, Donald J. Trump’s campaign manager, commented on Trump’s relationship with Indiana governor and vice presidential pick, Michael Pence. The first day of the Republican National Convention did not go as planned, and on the second night in Cleveland, staying on message proved difficult for the campaign and the speakers. Hillary Clinton said it reminded her of “The Wizard of Oz,” and predicted devastating economic effects if Donald J. Trump were to be elected. Chris Christie, the New Jersey governor, took to the stage during the second day of the Republican National Convention in Cleveland and perhaps meant to remind the audience that he believes he should have been the vice-presidential nominee. Republican delegates from every state in the nation are in Cleveland, where they nominated Donald J. Trump for the presidency on Tuesday. Here, some of them talk about how they will vote in November. Donald J. Trump was formally nominated as the Republican presidential candidate on the second day of the national convention. For some Republicans, the rise of Donald Trump to the head of their party has been acutely painful. We asked them to share their anguish. Chris Cox leads Bikers for Trump, a group that drove into Cleveland on motorcycles on Monday to patrol the Republican National Convention and to rally behind the presumptive nominee. On the first day of the convention on Monday, a lot of things did not go as anticipated. The Republican Party sought to show that it had unified behind Donald J. Trump. Instead some delegates tried to stage a last-ditch revolt. As Donald J. Trump seeks to position himself as a “law and order” candidate, there are echoes of Richard Nixon, a candidate who sought to do the same in 1968. Parts of Melania Trump’s speech during the Republican National Convention in Cleveland were strikingly similar to Michelle Obama’s speech during the Democratic convention in 2008. Slovenian-Americans in Cleveland talked about Donald Trump’s wife, a native of what is now Slovenia. Supporters of Donald J. Trump voiced their approval of his policies at a rally Monday. At a separate gathering, protestors decried what they see as his racism. Eric Minor, a delegate from Washington state, and Michael Steele, the former chairman of the Republican National Committee, spoke after a faction of delegates attempted a last-ditch revolt against Donald J. Trump. Members of Bikers for Trump explain what makes them support the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, Donald J. Trump. A brief look back at the 2016 presidential campaigns leading up to this year’s party conventions. The Times’s national political correspondent Jonathan Martin examines how protests have shaped the history of national political conventions ever since Chicago in 1968. At his first convention as host of “The Daily Show,” Trevor Noah talks to The New York Times about whether Donald Trump will appear on his show and the role of comedy in uniting the country. The housing bust continues for many in Cleveland, especially in predominantly black neighborhoods. The city is tearing down hundreds of homes to deal with the blight that has resulted. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »