Ted Cruz is on a six-day, 28-town swing through Iowa. These are the places, faces and culinary selections of 2016’s first proper bus tour. EVENT 27 Time: 6:13 p.m., Jan. 9 Place: New Hampton, Iowa (population: 3,571) Site: Big Ed’s Firehouse, a theme restaurant with helmets, an ax and a collection of shirts from nearby fire departments Mood: controlled flame Food: wings, including brush fire, barn burner and stop, drop and roll T-shirt: “I Survived Spontaneous Combustion at Big Ed’s” Price: “You have to earn it,” the establishment’s owner, Brian Laures, said. (The “spontaneous combustion” is a platter of hot wings.) Geography quiz: “New Hampton, right?” asked Bob Vander Plaats, a religious leader who has traveled all week with Mr. Cruz. “We really don’t know where we’re at anymore.” Heidi Cruz on her husband: “Great at games,” “big movie buff,” “can remember anything,” “steady and calm and low-key” Highlight: While many of Mr. Cruz’s one-liners have figured in his stump speech for months, he has had particular success this week with a new one. “I want to ask everyone here to vote for me,” he told the crowd, pausing for the reveal, “10 times.” (Shouts of “Hillary!” or “Chicago!” invariably follow.) “Now, look, we’re not Democrats,” Mr. Cruz continued, to chuckles. “I’m not suggesting voter fraud.” Rather, he would like supporters to recruit nine friends or relatives to vote for him, too. “That,” he said, “is how we win.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			