Some lucky gun rights advocates will get the chance to tell the president directly what they think about his efforts to restrict gun sales during a televised town-hall-style forum on Thursday night, according to the White House. “The goal of the town-hall meeting is for the president to engage with both people who support his position on gun safety, but also to have a conversation with those who don’t agree with some of the president’s positions,” Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, said on Wednesday. The forum, in front of an audience of about 100 at George Mason University in Fairfax County, Va., will be televised live on CNN. It comes two days after President Obama announced in a tearful East Room speech his intent to expand background checks for gun purchasers and to strengthen enforcement of existing gun laws. Many of the efforts are “guidance” for federal agencies, not binding regulations, and some rely on funding increases that a Republican-led Congress is certain to reject. Despite how modest these efforts may prove, Republican presidential candidates and congressional leaders greeted them with protests and angry claims of a “gun grab” that would violate Second Amendment rights. Whether that kind of reaction will be on display Thursday night is anybody’s guess. Shimrit Sheetrit, a CNN spokeswoman, said in an email that “the audience will be a mix of guests with pro- and anti-gun views, as well as people whose lives have been changed by guns.” Mr. Earnest said he expected the discussion to be civil. “The president is hopeful that he can have an enlightening discussion,” he said. Mr. Earnest said that some of those attending Thursday’s event had received invitations from the White House. “We’ve consulted with CNN about who will be in the audience, but ultimately it’s CNN who is making the call,” Mr. Earnest said.  Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			