COLUMBUS, Ohio — Arnold Schwarzenegger endorsed Gov. John Kasich on Sunday as Mr. Kasich rallied voters in his home state of Ohio, whose primary has emerged as a critical moment in the Republican race. Mr. Schwarzenegger, wearing a jacket with the logo of the Kasich campaign at an outdoor rally here, told the crowd  that Mr. Kasich “kicked some serious butt” during his time in Congress. “He was an action hero when he went to Washington,” Mr. Schwarzenegger said. Mr. Schwarzenegger, a former governor of California, puts on an annual sports festival in Columbus, which took place over the past few days. At the rally, he recalled being introduced to Mr. Kasich when he was first running for Congress in the 1980s, and cited his achievements in Congress and as Ohio’s governor. “This is the land of opportunity; it is the greatest nation in the world, no matter what anyone says out there,” Mr. Schwarzenegger said. “And we need John Kasich to now take charge and be at the White House.” Ohio’s winner-take-all primary, on March 15, is critical to Mr. Kasich as well as to efforts by Republican leaders to derail the candidacy of Donald J. Trump, whom Mr. Schwarzenegger happens to be replacing as the host of “The Celebrity Apprentice.”  Mr. Kasich hopes that a victory over Mr. Trump here will elevate him in the presidential race, allowing him to present himself as the best alternative. He has said he will leave the race if he does not win here. Mr. Kasich urged the crowd to show that his positive approach to campaigning, avoiding what he described as “name calling” and “sliming,” can result in victory. “I think it’s important that in Ohio, we not only send a message to the country, but we send a message to the world,” he said. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			