New York was a coveted electoral prize, but the real battle for supremacy in the Northeast will be waged on Tuesday, with primaries in five densely populated states: Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island. Just how seriously are the candidates taking these primaries? Consider this: Donald J. Trump, never known for his ambitious schedule on the trail, will cram in three events on Monday – in Warwick, R.I., and in Westchester and Wilkes-Barre Township, Pa. Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont will spend the day in Pennsylvania. He has scheduled events in two of the state’s biggest cities, Pittsburgh and Philadelphia. As Hillary Clinton heads to Indiana, before the May 3 voting there, her husband, former President Bill Clinton, will hold rallies on Monday in New Haven and Hartford, Conn., with former Representative Gabrielle Giffords of Arizona and her husband, Mark E. Kelly.  Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio will split his time between Maryland, where he will campaign in Rockville, and Pennsylvania, where he will hold events in McKees Rocks and Philadelphia. For now, Mr. Trump and Mrs. Clinton appear poised to perform well across the Northeast, polls show. Mr. Sanders was asked on Sunday why he had lost so many states where the income gap is large, given his outspokenness on the issue. His answer was characteristically blunt. “Well, because poor people don’t vote,” Mr. Sanders said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” “I mean, that’s just a fact.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			