Under pressure from the last Republican presidential nominee to release his tax returns, Donald J. Trump used the debate stage Thursday night to debut a new reason for why he can’t do so right now, and might not even be able to release them at all during the campaign: He’s been the target of curious audits for many years. “Because of the size of my company, which is very, very large, I’m being audited,” said Mr. Trump, adding that these audits have taken several years to conclude. “For many years, I’ve been audited every year,” Mr. Trump said. “Twelve years or something like that,” he added, which would technically mean it stretched back to the era of President George W. Bush. He said that he will “absolutely” release the returns but that he was currently being audited “so I can’t.” Senator Ted Cruz, standing to Mr. Trump’s left on stage, suggested he was afraid of releasing them. In an interview with the CNN host Chris Cuomo after the debate, Mr. Trump, playing into mistrust among some Republican voters about the I.R.S., said he thought he was being intentionally targeted for audits because he’s a “strong Christian.” Mr. Cuomo sounded dubious, but Mr. Trump insisted, and said that he has friends who are also wealthy but do not get audited. Mr. Trump’s remarks came a day after Mitt Romney, the 2012 Republican nominee, pressured Mr. Trump to release his tax returns and speculated about a “bombshell” that could be contained in them. After Mr. Trump’s comments during the debate, Mr. Romney posted on Twitter: No legit reason @realDonaldTrump can't release returns while being audited, but if scared, release earlier returns no longer under audit. — Mitt Romney (@MittRomney) February 26, 2016  .@realDonaldTrump taxes for last 4+ years are still being audited. There are more #bombshells or he would release them. — Mitt Romney (@MittRomney) February 26, 2016  The audit explanation was new: Earlier this week, Mr. Trump had maintained he couldn’t release his returns because they were so complex and would take a while to gather. During the debate, he dismissed Mr. Romney’s criticism as coming from a failed candidate seeking attention. “Mitt is just trying to remain relevant,” Mr. Trump said. “Nobody is talking to him much anymore. He got some publicity today.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			