The Republican presidential candidate Ted Cruz read from a cease-and-desist letter received from the campaign of his rival Donald J. Trump to stop one of his campaign commercials. SENECA, S.C. — He read aloud from a cease-and-desist letter. He presented the video evidence. He said he looked forward to deposing his chief rival for the Republican nomination.  And by the end of a mostly uninterrupted 40-minute argument-cum-spectacle here, Senator Ted Cruz — a seasoned lawyer and, on this day, unafraid to show it — had delivered a clear message to Donald J. Trump. Sue me. At issue was an ad from the Cruz campaign highlighting Mr. Trump’s history of support for abortion rights, using a 1999 clip in which he describes himself as “very pro-choice.” On Tuesday, Mr. Trump’s team sent a cease-and-desist letter to the campaign, calling the ad “replete with outright lies” and threatening a defamation suit. On Wednesday, Mr. Cruz’s campaign distributed its response and the original Trump campaign letter to reporters. Mr. Cruz held forth in a hotel conference room here, laying papers across a table and gesturing toward his visual aids: a video screen, on which he played the ad, and a poster detailing Mr. Trump’s past contributions to Democrats like Hillary Clinton, Chuck Schumer and Harry Reid. “You have been threatening frivolous lawsuits for your entire adult life,” Mr. Cruz said of Mr. Trump. “Even in the annals of frivolous lawsuits, this takes the cake.” He urged Mr. Trump to proceed with his lawsuit and said he looked forward to confronting him directly. “I may well not use outside counsel,” Mr. Cruz said. “I may take the deposition myself.” In a statement after Mr. Cruz’s remarks, Mr. Trump called Mr. Cruz a liar, disparaged his campaign logo and threatened legal action on another front. “If I want to bring the lawsuit regarding Senator Cruz being a natural born Canadian, I will do so,” Mr. Trump said. “Time will tell, Teddy.” At his news conference, Mr. Cruz detailed the “data points” at play if Mr. Trump followed through with the suit over the abortion ad. To begin with, he said, “repeating someone’s own words cannot be defamation.” He also highlighted the judicial work of Mr. Trump’s sister, Maryanne Trump Barry, who in 2000 wrote an opinion calling a New Jersey law banning late-term abortions “unconstitutionally and incurably vague.”  Mr. Trump said last year that his sister would make a suitable Supreme Court justice, though he has since said he was kidding. Broadening his attack, Mr. Cruz turned to the contributor list to argue that Mr. Trump had helped elect leaders who supported President Obama’s health care law. “Donald Trump is a direct cause of Obamacare passing,” he said. He also took aim at Senator Marco Rubio, likening him to “Donald Trump with a smile” as he accused the Florida senator of obscuring his own record in a hail of attacks against Mr. Cruz. “It’s unfortunate,” he said. “His campaign has not gotten the traction he wanted.” Mr. Cruz spoke for 25 minutes before taking questions, plainly enjoying himself. Though he tends at times to trade professorial tendencies for folksiness on the campaign trail, Mr. Cruz has in recent days embraced his legal background with particular zeal. He clerked for Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and argued nine cases before the court as solicitor general of Texas. Since Justice Antonin Scalia’s death, he has said he intends to make the election “a referendum on the Supreme Court.” Opening the floor to questioning Wednesday, Mr. Cruz was asked whether he was violating his long-held pledge to avoid insulting his competitors personally. “I don’t respond in kind,” Mr. Cruz said. “I am responding with simple facts.” As for the ad, Mr. Cruz’s campaign made its intentions clear in its response to Mr. Trump. “Your demand for ‘prompt written assurances’ that we have pulled the spot will not be forthcoming,” the message read. “To the contrary, we now plan to air the ad with greater frequency.” 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			