MANCHESTER, N.H. — Jeb Bush has quipped that New Hampshire is his “second home,” and in the first full week of 2016, he is decamping to this winter abode for a three-day, seven-event trip through the state.  Mr. Bush, who needs a top-tier finish in New Hampshire to revive his stalled campaign, plans to start his campaigning Tuesday morning at the Chamber of Commerce in Derry and to end it on Thursday evening with a town-hall-style event in Peterborough. (The Peterborough event had been scheduled during the holiday break, but it was canceled for bad weather.) Also on the agenda for Tuesday is a discussion about the state’s heroin epidemic at Southern New Hampshire University, where Mr. Bush plans to roll out his drug control strategy. The plan has four central components: preventing drug abuse and addiction, strengthening the criminal justice system, securing the southern border with Mexico to stop the flow of illegal drugs, and improving treatment and recovery programs. Mr. Bush will also discuss his personal experience with the ravages of drug abuse; his daughter, Noelle, publicly struggled with addiction while he was governor of Florida, a difficult period for his family that he sometimes alludes to on the campaign trail.
Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			