Among his colleagues at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, Dr. Ben Carson had plenty of admirers during his more than three decades as a pediatric neurosurgeon. But some of those former co-workers and longtime friends have mixed views about how Dr. Carson would perform as President Carson. One, Dr. Henry Brem, the current neurosurgery chief at Hopkins, was hesitant to offer a ringing endorsement. “I don’t know,” he said. “I think that someone who has been a governor, who has run a big political system, is probably more prepared to run a massive system. Let me put it a different way, I would not make a good president. I run one of the best neurosurgery departments in the country, I’m very proud of how I run it, but there’s no way in the world that I would make a good president.” Dr. Brem added that Dr. Carson is “a different person than me, but I don’t know if it’s a different skill set.” Carol James, Dr. Carson’s longtime physician assistant, said that it was hard for her to imagine a Carson presidency, but that he had “characteristics that would be really good as a president,” including “that he’s someone who is amazingly good at talking with people, who tries to find a solution, who doesn’t go off half-cocked and make a decision.” A few colleagues said Dr. Carson’s experience included relevant skills for the job. A former director of the neurosurgery department at Hopkins, Dr. Donlin Long, cited Dr. Carson’s “moral and ethical foundation” and ability to make “important life and death decisions rapidly” as pluses. Dr. Michael Guarnieri, a former pediatric neurosurgery director at Hopkins, said, “He ran a huge shop, he’s got administrative skills, he’s got fund-raising skills.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			