Jeb Bush doesn’t show up a lot in the new biography of his father, but his advice during the 1992 re-election campaign offers some insight into his brand of conservatism leavened by political pragmatism. Mr. Bush wrote to his father, President George Bush, on June 2, 1992, to praise Vice President Dan Quayle for an outspoken speech on family values. Mr. Quayle had taken on the television comedy “Murphy Brown,” whose title character played by Candice Bergen becomes a single mother. “It doesn’t help matters when prime-time TV has Murphy Brown, a character who supposedly epitomizes today’s intelligent, highly paid professional woman, mocking the importance of fathers by bearing a child alone and calling it just another lifestyle choice,” Mr. Quayle had said. Jeb Bush applauded the sentiment and dismissed critics. “While the liberal columnists and editorial writers denigrate him (the same folks who rip you apart regularly), he has scored big with our base vote,” Mr. Bush wrote, according to “Destiny and Power: The American Odyssey of George Herbert Walker Bush,” by Jon Meacham. Jeb Bush argued that the “values theme” was a good one and that his father should pursue it, according to the book, to be published by Random House next week. But less than two months later, Jeb Bush joined the chorus calling for Mr. Quayle to be replaced on the ticket. He called from Florida “saying he’s had calls from many real conservatives and Christians saying that we ought to get rid of Quayle,” his father dictated to his audio diary. As George W. Bush previously noted in his memoir, he also argued that Mr. Quayle should be moved off the ticket (his suggested replacement: Dick Cheney). The elder Mr. Bush took the advice seriously. “When your own sons and others say you ought to do something to look strong, I have to know that it is pervasive,” he told his diary. But in the end, he rejected the suggestion: “I wouldn’t look strong. I would look like I had sold him out, and the hue-and-cry would rise up, particularly from the right.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			