As the Republican presidential contest looks increasingly like a two-man race between Donald J. Trump and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, members of the Republican establishment are left contemplating which candidate it finds more palatable at the top of the ticket. On Wednesday, Bob Dole, the former Kansas senator and Republican presidential nominee in 1996, answered that question clearly — giving Mr. Cruz fodder in the process. In an interview with The New York Times, Mr. Dole said that he believed that Mr. Cruz would have a “cataclysmic” effect on the party and on the candidates running further down on the ballot.  He questioned whether Mr. Cruz would be able to work effectively in Congress because “nobody likes him.” Mr. Trump, he predicted, would have an easier time. Mr. Dole is no fan of Mr. Cruz, and has taken light shots at him in the past. But the frontal attack was new, and unusual. It was the latest in a string of reminders that many prominent Republican officials have strained relations with Mr. Cruz. Gov. Terry E. Branstad of Iowa, who recently held a deer hunt attended by Mr. Trump’s son Donald J. Trump Jr., has also said he would like to see Mr. Cruz defeated. But Mr. Cruz seized on the remarks from Mr. Dole as exactly the type of thinking he has been fighting in Washington. The establishment, Mr. Cruz said on his bus tour in New Hampshire, has “abandoned” efforts to rally around Senator Marco Rubio of Florida and is now embracing Mr. Trump. For Mr. Cruz, the fight with Mr. Branstad  — and Mr. Dole — could serve to remind Iowans who support him why they like him in the first place. As for Mr. Trump, who has based much of his candidacy on the fact that he is not a politician or beholden to special interests, being painted as connected to the establishment comes with risks.  Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			