Sarah Palin made her return to national politics this week with a rousing endorsement of Donald Trump, praising the billionaire developer for his penchant for “going rogue” and lashing out at Republicans who say he is not sufficiently conservative. While Mrs. Palin’s influence within the party has waned since 2008, when she was a vice-presidential candidate, the Trump campaign views her as someone who can bolster the candidate’s support with evangelical Christians and Tea Party Republicans in Iowa. Her ability to turn out voters remains to be seen, but stumping with Mr. Trump appears to be doing some damage to Mrs. Palin among her own supporters, especially on social media. The former Alaska governor maintains a community of millions of Facebook fans, and while some cheered her backing of Mr. Trump, others called her a sellout who was only seeking another moment in the political spotlight. “Very sorry to see that Sarah Palin has decided that being a maverick is more important than being a conservative,” said Dale Roberts, of Calvert City, Ky. “Trump supports gay marriage. He is pro abortion. He is anything but a conservative.” John Guy Lockwood Burpee, of Fort Worth, said that he was disappointed that Mrs. Palin would be critical of one of his senators from Texas, Ted Cruz, who is locked in a tight race with Mr. Trump less than two weeks before the Iowa caucuses. “I know you are upset with the establishment, and rightfully so, but going after Ted Cruz is not you,” he said. “So disappointing and heartbreaking to see this.” Although Mr. Trump has won the support of many evangelical Christians, he has struggled at times to discuss religion with fluency and he has strained to explain his previous liberal positions on abortion and same-sex marriage. This week he was mocked when he referred to the Bible verse Second Corinthians as “Two Corinthians” during a speech at Liberty University. Fans of Mrs. Palin could not understand how she could endorse someone who says that he does not ask for God’s forgiveness and who does not appear to read the Bible. “Sarah, I have lost all respect for you,” said Barbara Fitzgerald, of Grand Rapids, Mich. “Trump is anything but a conservative and he clearly lacks humility and fear of the Lord. What a shameful act on your part.” Ryan Dyal, of Jacksonville, Fla., was also disappointed in Mrs. Palin. But heÂ remained hopeful that she could teach Mr. Trump something about Christianity while they campaign together. “He does not share your values,” Mr. Dyal said of Mr. Trump. “I hope there is prayer and wisdom in this that I cannot see. Praying for you Sarah. Make sure he understands the full Gospel, will ya?” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			