OSKALOOSA, Iowa – Senator Marco Rubio of Florida is fond of telling voters hungry for a political outsider that he is not the candidate with the most endorsements from leading Republicans. He doesn’t mention that he has the second most, behind only Jeb Bush. On Tuesday, he told voters that the attack ads being run against him in Iowa and elsewhere were being paid for not with small donations from grass-roots conservatives, but by very wealthy people. He didn’t mention that his own campaign has not done well with small donors, or that his supporters include some of the wealthiest and most influential Republican financiers. With push coming to shove in the final days before the Iowa caucuses, Mr. Rubio is trying to persuade conservative Republican voters that he is the most anti-establishment establishment candidate. All along, his strategy has been to make himself acceptable to most segments of the party: the activists in the heartland and the power brokers in Washington; the deeply religious conservatives and the more moderate, less church-going crowd; the pro-interventionist hawks; the fiscal conservatives. As Donald J. Trump and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas zoomed to the front of the pack, Mr. Rubio sought to make himself the choice of voters whom Mr. Trump and Mr. Cruz, with their bomb-throwing outsider talk, have left cold. But Mr. Rubio is also quick to point out that he has never been one to fall obediently into line with the wishes of party elders. That is how his career in national politics began, he says, by defying Florida leaders who told him not to run for the Senate against the governor at the time, Charlie Crist. “The same people came to me now and said, ‘We’re lining up behind somebody else, and we’re going to come after you,’” he said Tuesday. “They’ve kept their word on that. They’ve spent over $20 million attacking me – $20 million.” Still, while Mr. Rubio is making the argument that he stands up to the powerful, entrenched political interests in Washington, he is also signaling to voters that he wants to bring them together and win. “We can’t win if we’re fighting with each other,” he said as he finished his remarks here and urged Iowans to caucus for him in six days. “Who gives us the best chance to bring us together? I know I do.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			