MANCHESTER, N.H. – Senator Marco Rubio of Florida has directed much of his fire on the campaign trail in recent weeks at Gov. Chris Christie, using town halls in this state and in Iowa to unfurl a long list of the New Jersey governor’s deviations from conservative orthodoxy. But speaking to reporters on Thursday, Mr. Rubio gladly seized on an opportunity to take aim at Jeb Bush, an indication of just how muddled the so-called establishment lane of candidates has become in New Hampshire leading to its Feb. 9 primary. “On the issue of Common Core, while we were off and many conservatives around the country were fighting against the Obama agenda, Jeb was nowhere to be found,” said Mr. Rubio, pointing to the national education standards, which have been criticized by the right, to explain how he differed from Mr. Bush. “In fact, he spent most of his time traveling the country trying to push Common Core onto our local school districts and across the country. And in some instances even criticized the conservative movement on some of these things.” To nominate Mr. Bush, Mr. Rubio argued, would only continue a Republican pattern of elevating candidates who have run before or are well-known. “We can’t just keep electing the next person in line, we can’t just keep electing the people that raise the most money or have the most endorsements,” Mr. Rubio, 44, continued, reviving a generational argument that he had played down somewhat, as Mr. Christie, 53, appeared to pose a greater threat to him than Mr. Bush, 62. “Our party needs to turn the page and move forward.” Asked if he thought Mr. Bush was committed to overturning President Obama’s policies, Mr. Rubio only said, “I can tell you, I will.” Mr. Rubio, who is aiming to outpoll the other establishment-aligned candidates in Iowa and New Hampshire, is struggling with the same challenge others from his wing of the party are facing: how to discern his stiffest competition in this state. His comments came a day after a CNN-WMUR poll of New Hampshire Republican primary voters indicated that Mr. Bush was receiving 10 percent of the vote – the same share as Mr. Rubio. Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio took 6 percent in the survey, the same as Mr. Christie, though Mr. Kasich has fared better in other recent New Hampshire polls. The CNN-WMUR poll showed Donald J. Trump way ahead of the field with 34 percent. But the competition between establishment-aligned candidates for the support of centrist and right-of-center voters has turned fierce. Each has hosted multiple events a day in New Hampshire, and their campaigns and allied “super PACs” are attacking one another on television, radio, and through the mail. Mr. Rubio has struggled to break through in the state partly because he has been on the receiving end of a torrent of attacks from Mr. Bush’s super PAC, something the senator brought up on Thursday to suggest he was not necessarily a darling of Republican elites. “I’ve had over $20 million spent attacking me,” he said. “That’s not grass-roots money. That’s money from the establishment.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			