Republicans said Friday that efforts were underway to broker a meeting between Donald J. Trump and Representative Paul D. Ryan, the House speaker, with Mr. Trump saying on Friday that he was “surprised” by the rebuke from Mr. Ryan on Thursday, and added that the party needed to come together.  Mr. Trump made the comments in an interview on “Fox and Friends,” a day after Mr. Ryan, the highest-ranking elected Republican in the country, said he was not yet prepared to back Mr. Trump, his party’s presumptive presidential nominee. The split was unheard of in modern political history, and further roiled the party.  “I was really surprised,” Mr. Trump said of the Wisconsin congressman’s remarks. “By the way, many other people were surprised by it, and some were really surprised by it, and not happy about it.”  “You talk about unity, but what is this?” Mr. Trump said. “With billions of people coming into the party, obviously I’m saying the right thing.”  He confirmed that there were efforts to broker a meeting between the two men next Wednesday in Washington, although he cautioned that there are “a lot of days” from now till then.  The party’s beleaguered national chairman, Reince Priebus, said wearily on Friday morning that he believed that Mr. Ryan was sincere in saying he hoped this would be resolved.  “I think Paul’s just being honest with how he feels,” said Mr. Priebus, who is close to Mr. Ryan, adding that he expects that the meeting between the two men will still take place and that the speaker will support the nominee eventually.  “He said he’s not there yet, but he wants to get there,” Mr. Priebus said.  Last year, the G.O.P. went to great lengths to keep Mr. Trump from wandering away from the party when he repeatedly threatened to run as an independent. The party’s chairman asked all candidates to sign a unity pledge promising to support the eventual nominee. But by the end of the brutal nominating contest, all of the three remaining candidates broke that pledge.  Mr. Trump boasted about the increase in voter participation in the primaries. “Now, the Republican party is the talk of the world,” he said.  Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			