Hillary Clinton and Donald J. Trump will be in Washington on Monday, addressing the conference of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, or Aipac. That’s about where the similarities in their days will end.  Mr. Trump will hold a meeting at the office of his election lawyer, Donald F. McGahn, of the firm Jones Day, which is expected to be attended by Senator Tom Cotton of Arkansas, among others. He is also poised to meet with Republican officials and potentially some members of Congress, many of whom have taken some time to warm to his candidacy. Later, he will hold a news conference. And finally, he’ll deliver a speech before the Aipac conference, several hours after Mrs. Clinton delivers hers. For Mr. Trump, the speech is an opportunity to address his remark about staying “neutral” in negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians, which worried some Republicans. He will also get a chance to drill down on some foreign policy specifics, although it remains to be seen just how detailed he will be.  In a preview of her remarks, Mrs. Clinton’s aides made clear she is planning a contrast with Mr. Trump over his comment about neutrality. She will also say that the next president cannot be “unpredictable” in standing with Israel, another clear shot across the bow at Mr. Trump. The day in Washington presents Mr. Trump with yet another opportunity to appear “presidential,” a word he used to describe his final debate performance.  The focus on Mr. Trump for the last week has been about the violence that has occurred at his rallies. Again, over the weekend, he declined to denounce his supporters who have punched and kicked protesters. He has broadly said he does not condone violence, although he has often lamented the “good old days” when protesters were treated roughly. And he has suggested that he is the real victim of so-called disrupters who interrupt his events. At the same time, he defended his campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, for moving into the crowd in Tucson, Ariz., and confronting a protester, whom Mr. Lewandowski grabbed by the collar and appeared to yank.  What seems clear is that Mr. Trump’s rallies will be a magnet for protests for the foreseeable future. And he is showing no signs of changing how he addresses them.  Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			