Donald J.Trump was surrounded by security personnel during an interruption by a person in the crowd at his rally in Vandalia, Ohio, on Saturday. Updated, 5:10 p.m. | A man jumped a security barrier and rushed the stage at Donald J. Trump’s rally in Dayton, Ohio on Saturday morning, leading to a brief moment of panic when Secret Service briefly surrounded the candidate. The night before, Mr. Trump abruptly canceled his rally in Chicago as hundreds of activists scuffled with his supporters inside the arena where it was to take place. But the Dayton event Saturday was relatively quiet, by Mr. Trump’s standards, until the end. One man began protesting about 10 minutes before Mr. Trump finished talking. “What took him so long to put up his hand, we’re almost finished!” Mr. Trump said, mocking the man and telling him to “go back to mommy.” Not long after that person was escorted out, a man jumped over a security barrier and rushed toward the stage, a moment captured on a video quickly posted to YouTube. People could be heard screaming, and Mr. Trump ducked his head, grabbing his podium with both hands. One of Mr. Trump’s personal security guards, who has worked for him for years, was the first to jump on stage. Three other men who appeared to be Secret Service agents jumped on stage, and all formed a ring around Mr. Trump for a few moments. “Thank you for the warning,” Mr. Trump told the crowd. “I was ready for him, but it’s much easier if the cops do it.” In an email, a spokeswoman for Mr. Trump, Hope Hicks, said, “A man attempted to breach the secure buffer and was removed rapidly and professionally.” According to the Secret Service, the man was arrested by the Dayton Police Department; the exact charges were not immediately available. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			