MANCHESTER, N.H. – John Kasich is campaigning for president as the good-humor man, eschewing what he calls the “doom and gloom” of his rivals for the Republican nomination. The Ohio governor’s cheerful demeanor extends even to an episode of his career that opponents have used against him: Mr. Kasich’s stint at Lehman Brothers, the investment bank that collapsed in 2008, helping to start a global financial crisis. Mr. Kasich brought up his Lehman years, unprompted, at one of his New Hampshire events on Monday, and laughed off the attacks on his connection with the failed firm. “I’ve been accused of bankrupting Lehman Brothers,” he joked, to laughter from the crowd at the Manchester Rotary Club. “I actually operated a two-man office in Columbus, Ohio. If I can bankrupt Lehman Brothers from there, I ought to be pope.” Mr. Kasich has made the joke before. An adviser on the sidelines of his event said it has become a regular feature of his speeches. But Mr. Kasich’s tenure at the bank may become newly relevant in the campaign if he continues his climb into the top tier of candidates in New Hampshire. Donald J. Trump has already mocked Mr. Kasich for his past affiliation with Lehman, criticizing him in a fall debate for holding a senior position at the bank “when it went down the tubes.” And Democrats have attacked Mr. Kasich’s Lehman credentials since his first campaign for governor in 2010. Should Mr. Kasich emerge as a finalist for the Republican nomination, opponents in both parties might force him to address his work at Lehman in a less lighthearted way. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. A version of this article appears in print on 01/26/2016, on page A14 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Unprompted, Kasich Makes Light of Tenure At Lehman Brothers. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			