WHITEFIELD, N.H. — A week ago, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas would not lay a glove on Donald J. Trump. For several days, his increasingly pointed digs against his fellow Republican presidential candidate came only in the company of reporters. But at a high school here on Monday evening, without prodding from anyone, Mr. Cruz delivered a searing critique of Mr. Trump in a room full of voters for the first time. In particular, he contrasted his record with Mr. Trump’s support for the Troubled Asset Relief Program to rescue the banking system, President Obama’s stimulus plan and eminent domain. And he noted that for all of Mr. Trump’s attention to immigration during the campaign, the developer was “nowhere to be found” when Mr. Cruz and his congressional allies moved to squash an immigration overhaul in Washington. “I would suggest as voters,” Mr. Cruz said, “you have reason to doubt the credibility of the promises of a political candidate who discovers the issue after he announces for president.” The comments began in the middle of an extended answer about the national debt. The questioner had not mentioned Mr. Trump. “I would note,” Mr. Cruz said, using the three words that often precede a new Cruz line of attack, “there are many people that are observing this race nationally is coming more and more down to a two-man race between me and Donald Trump.” “Who?” a man shouted. “You’re clearly not a reporter,” Mr. Cruz responded, to laughs. Mr. Cruz then expanded on a recent trope, telling voters not to “get burned again” by a candidate who cannot be trusted to carry out campaign pledges. “Here’s what I’m going to suggest: Ignore what all of us say,” Mr. Cruz said. “Don’t listen to me. Don’t listen to Donald. Don’t listen to any candidate. Look to our actions.” Mr. Cruz, who has in recent days reminded reporters of Mr. Trump’s history of left-leaning positions and donations to Democrats, reiterated that Mr. Trump had a limited history with conservative causes. He has also taken care to cast Mr. Trump as unsteady, prone to fixate on poll numbers and Twitter. It was Mr. Trump who escalated the feud in recent weeks by ominously noting Mr. Cruz’s Canadian birth, raising questions about his eligibility for the presidency. The move followed weeks of encouraging poll numbers for Mr. Cruz, particularly in Iowa. “Listen, Donald the last couple of days has been a little rattled,” Mr. Cruz told the crowd. “His poll numbers went down, and he got a little upset.”  Voters familiar with the two candidates’ history seemed grateful that Mr. Cruz had made the case for himself more explicitly — while stopping short, they said, of a personal attack on Mr. Trump’s character.  “It’s called meekness,” Dave Clifford, 50, said of Mr. Cruz’s approach. “And it’s a quality, not a detriment.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			