This is not what Hillary Clinton wanted to discuss the morning before the Iowa caucuses. But, in her brief appearance on ABC’s “This Week” on Sunday, Mrs. Clinton found herself defending her use of a private email server while serving as secretary of state and reinforcing that she did not knowingly send or receive classified emails. “She lied about the fact that there is nothing classified on my server. Why as long as you can get away with it?” Carly Fiorina says in ABC’s introduction of Mrs. Clinton, who appeared on the show right before her main rival, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont. “She put our national security at risk for her convenience,” Chris Christie says. The host, George Stephanopoulos, asked if the State Department’s decision on Friday to deem that 22 emails sent or received to Mrs. Clinton’s private computer server  were “top secret” material that contained information too highly classified to be released. The server was kept at her home in Chappaqua, N.Y.  Mrs. Clinton called for all the emails to be released and deemed the latest development “a continuation of the story that has been playing out for months” and that “there is no classified marked information on those emails sent or received by me.” She said, “I do want them released,” and said that the delayed labeling of the material as classified was part of an “interagency dispute.” In interviews lately, Mrs. Clinton has been comparing the controversy over her handling of private email to the scandal over her handling of the terrorist attack in Benghazi, a tactic she reiterated on Sunday. “This is very much like Benghazi, George,” she said. “You know, the Republicans are going to continue to use it to beat up on me.” Mrs. Clinton mostly left the beating up of Mr. Sanders to her Democratic surrogates. Asked whether the fact that Mr. Sanders is a Democratic socialist would hurt her opponent in a general election, Mrs. Clinton said, “Well, that is certainly what a lot of Democratic leaders are saying and I take them at their word. They know their states. They know the country.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			