An Iowa Republican group will begin airing a tough ad that is aimed at Representative Steve King of Iowa and his endorsement of Senator Ted Cruz, pointing out that the Texas legislator is against the ethanol-supporting renewable fuel standard. The spot is part of a television and radio ad buy that is just under $200,000. The ad seeks to undercut both Mr. King and Mr. Cruz, who is surging in polls of the Republican presidential primary, by painting them as politicians uninterested in Iowa’s agricultural industry. “After 13 years in Congress, it’s all changed for Steve King,” the television spot from the Progress Project, a group run by Nick Ryan, an Iowa-based operative. Mr. Ryan is now advising the Pursuing America’s Greatness “super PAC” that supports for Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas for president. The ad notes that Mr. King used to cite fighting for the renewable fuel standard as a priority. But Mr. Cruz is “fighting in Congress to end the renewable fuel standard, hurting farmers and costing thousands of Iowans their jobs,” the ad says. The standard requires fuel companies to rely on different types of fuel blends including some based on corn, such as ethanol. Corn is a major Iowa crop. The spot and a radio ad in a similar veinÂ will also be accompanied by robocalls into people’s homes. Mr. King’s endorsement was seen as a boon to Mr. Cruz, as he tries to overtake Donald J. Trump in the caucuses. Mr. King is one of the staunchest conservatives in Congress, and is virulently against changing immigration laws in a way that would favor undocumented immigrants. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			