Few candidates for president have been as deft at garnering free media attention as Donald J. Trump. His appearance on “Saturday Night Live” is the latest example. But appearing on a show like “Saturday Night Live” as a political candidate brings its own set of rules: To ensure fair treatment, other candidates are entitled to “equal time,” free of charge, on the same network. NBC affiliates began filing the required paperwork on Monday, saying Mr. Trump appeared on the show for a total of 12 minutes and 5 seconds. Yet, given the show’s vast digital reach, it is likely that Mr. Trump received well more attention than that. According to Amobee Brand Intelligence, a digital marketing firm, Mr. Trump saw a large increase in digital content engagement — conversation across websites, social media and video platforms — on the day after the broadcast. According to the firm, there was 28 percent more engagement around Mr. Trump on the Sunday after the performance than there was on the day after the most recent Republican debate in Colorado. He also saw a large increase in Twitter engagement during the broadcast, as over 160,000 tweets surrounding the performance were shared during the normally quiet Saturday night period of 11:30 p.m. to 1 a.m. As some critics panned Mr. Trump’s performance as bland, so did the Twitter audience. According to Amobee, Twitter sentiment around Mr. Trump was 17 percent positive, 71 percent neutral and 12 percent negative.  But for Mr. Trump, the reviews did not matter. Preliminary Nielsen reports show high ratings for the broadcast (official ratings will be released on Thursday), something that Mr. Trump posted frequently on Twitter about on Monday. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			