Rupert Murdoch, the executive chairman of News Corporation, was under fire on Thursday for suggesting that President Obama is not a “real black president.” The media mogul set off a firestorm on Wednesday night after Ben Carson, the Republican presidential candidate, appeared on Fox News. Praising the performance of the retired neurosurgeon, who is black, Mr. Murdoch wrote on Twitter that he might be better suited than the president to heal America’s racial divide. Ben and Candy Carson terrific.     What about a real black President who can properly address the racial divide?  And much else. — Rupert Murdoch  (@rupertmurdoch) October 8, 2015  The backlash ensued quickly, with people accusing Mr. Murdoch of being racist and questioning his qualifications to pass judgment on someone’s “blackness.” Mr. Murdoch followed up by pointing to a recent New York magazine article that addressed the question of whether Mr. Obama, the country’s first black president, has done enough for the African-American community during his time in office. The founder of Fox News, Mr. Murdoch has been a frequent critic of Mr. Obama’s policies. However, it was not always that way. In 2008, when Mr. Obama was running for president, Mr. Murdoch called him a “phenomenon” who was highly intelligent, and he expressed hope that the then-senator could follow through on some of his proposals. Realizing the anger that he stirred, Mr. Murdoch said on Thursday that he was sorry and that he finds both Mr. Obama and Mr. Carson to be “charming.” Apologies!     No offence meant.   Personally find both men charming. — Rupert Murdoch  (@rupertmurdoch) October 8, 2015    Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			