Hillary Rodham Clinton will arrive in a liberal pocket of eastern Iowa on Tuesday with a little spring in her step.  After she lost ground in Iowa to Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont in some polls, a couple of recent surveys have put Mrs. Clinton firmly ahead of Mr. Sanders, her closest Democratic rival in the first-in-the-nation nominating state. A Monmouth University poll released on Oct. 27 showed Mrs. Clinton leading Mr. Sanders by 41 percentage points.  Not too long ago, when such polls showed Mrs. Clinton trailing her insurgent challenger, Clinton campaign aides dismissed the results as unreliable, but the campaign has been quiet in recent weeks as Mrs. Clinton’s strong debate performance and testimony before the House select committee on the 2012 attacks in Benghazi, Libya, helped her claw her way back. In 2008, she finished in third place in Iowa, a notoriously fickle caucus state. On Tuesday, Mrs. Clinton plans to answer Iowans’ questions at two town-hall-style events in Coralville, near Iowa City, and Grinnell, another university town. Both are known as Bernie Sanders country because of the devoted liberal college students who have been intrigued by his candidacy, but Mrs. Clinton, feeling emboldened, will seek to make inroads in the areas to talk about her plans to lift middle-class incomes.  Before hopping over to Iowa, Mrs. Clinton took a commercial flight to Chicago on Monday for fund-raisers. On Friday, she will join Mr. Sanders and Martin O’Malley (just not on the same stage) when the three Democratic candidates head to South Carolina for a presidential forum put on by Representative James E. Clyburn and moderated by Rachel Maddow of MSNBC. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			