As a businesswoman, Carly Fiorina was renowned for her motivational oratory. But “the less she has to do with a speech the better,” her former speechwriter told staff members at Hewlett-Packard, according to an internal company memo, “since she’s so busy.” The speechwriter described her speaking style as “less corporate, less business-eze,” noted that she “likes historical references,” and warned that she “will reveal personal stories if appropriate.” Carl V. Kelly, Mrs. Fiorina’s speechwriter at Lucent Technologies, the firm at which she made a name for herself in the 1990s, described the process of writing speeches for her in an interview with an H.P. communications employee in 1999, just as Mrs. Fiorina was preparing to take over as H.P.’s chief executive. Eager to research the company’s new boss, the H.P. employee dutifully wrote up the notes of the conversation with Mr. Kelly into a document titled “Speechwriter’s Guide for Carly Fiorina.” The document was obtained by The New York Times from a former H.P. employee. The document laid out her preferences for font size and spacing in a speech she was to deliver. “1st draft was usually 12 pt., single space,” he said, according to the document. “Final format – 14 pt Arial double-space.” Mrs. Fiorina “rarely used bullets, only when not at a podium.” She was determined to study her audience ahead of time, so she could tailor her message. “First item was always a complete audience analysis,” the document said. Mr. Kelly, the Lucent speechwriter, told the H.P. employee that Mrs. Fiorina had great respect for speechwriters and recommended that his counterpart at H.P. “break through the bureaucratic layers and meet with her personally” when preparing a speech. The document goes into striking detail.  Mrs. Fiorina, it said, “is comfortable with visuals” – like slide shows, during her speeches. At Lucent, it said,  she “used a lot of videos.” Long before Mrs. Fiorina was thinking about a White House run, she seemed prepared for one of its trappings, the document suggests. “She can work from teleprompter when necessary,” it says.   By MICHAEL BARBARO Employees described a day-to-day management style in which she could shower workers with affirmation but then allow some to be laid off with only a phone call. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			