A new television ad from Mr. Carson, the retired pediatric neurosurgeon and Republican presidential candidate, aims to capitalize on his unusual experience and style of campaigning. Like Donald J. Trump, Ben Carson, the retired pediatric neurosurgeon and Republican presidential candidate, has defied the pundits and establishment prognosticators by unapologetically running as a political outsider. A new television ad by the Carson campaign aims to capitalize on his unusual experience and style of campaigning. The 30-second spot, which is airing in the Greenville, S.C., market, features Mr. Carson, in a suit, standing next to an empty cardboard box that says “Washington political class” on one side and  a sketch of the Capitol on another. “I’m Ben Carson and I’m running for president,” he says. “The political class and their pundit buddies say: ‘Impossible. He’s too outside the box.’ Well, they do know impossible. Impossible to balance the budget, impossible to get border security, impossible to put aside partisanship.” He continues: “I’m Ben Carson, I’m running for president, and I’m very much outside the box.” Then, turning to the box, Mr. Carson concludes, “There must be a good idea in there somewhere.” Reached for comment, the Carson campaign said the spot had aired mistakenly a few times, and was not officially scheduled to hit the airwaves for another week or two. But on Friday, Mr. Carson broadcast his first television ad in the first four early nominating states. The “Outside the Box” spot also captures Mr. Carson’s low-key demeanor, which has helped him appeal to voters in Iowa. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			