While attention around Hillary Rodham Clinton has been focused on her email use as secretary of state, her team quietly brought on a new lawyer for her campaign-in-waiting two months ago. Marc Elias, a veteran campaign finance lawyer who was general counsel for John Kerry’s presidential campaign in 2004, is scheduled to be Mrs. Clinton’s lead campaign lawyer in her all-but-assured second bid for the presidency, three Democrats with knowledge of the hire said. Mr. Elias, who was brought on long before questions emerged about Mrs. Clinton’s personal email use at the State Department, is a partner at the firm Perkins Coie, which represents a number of Democratic senators. The lead lawyer for a presidential campaign is traditionally involved in an array of decisions, including negotiating the ground rules for the presidential debates, signing off on television ads and monitoring voting rights issues. In the modern political landscape, part of Mr. Elias’s role will be ensuring that coordination rules are followed to maintain the firewall between the campaign and the outside groups supporting it.  Mrs. Clinton’s campaign lawyer in 2008 was Lyn Utrecht, who is still expected to help her handle some personal issues. David Kendall, who has worked with Mrs. Clinton and former President Bill Clinton since their days in the White House, has been helping her respond to the latest House inquiry into the 2012 Benghazi attacks.  According to Politico, Mr. Elias played a pivotal role in pushing through a rule in last year’s federal spending bill that drastically increased the maximum amount of money donors can give to both major party committees every year. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			