Ben Carson has gained ground on Donald J. Trump in a new poll from Fox News and is now in a statistical tie with the billionaire developer, who has been leading the crowded Republican pack for months. A survey of likely Republican voters found that 24 percent supported Mr. Trump and 23 percent backed Mr. Carson. The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus five percentage points. For months, Mr. Trump has boasted that he leads all state and national polls of Republicans, defying controversies and mixed debate performances. But Mr. Carson, a soft-spoken retired neurosurgeon, has slowly been gaining ground on Mr. Trump and now threatens to overshadow his front-runner aura. Mr. Carson and Mr. Trump have largely been cordial to each other on the campaign trail, but that could change now that Mr. Trump’s lead is at risk. So far Mr. Trump has aggressively attacked candidates who were gaining on him, and he has been successful at keeping establishment rivals such as Jeb Bush and Senator Marco Rubio and upstarts such as Carly Fiorina at bay. The rest of the Republican field remains muddled in the latest Fox poll, with Senator Ted Cruz, Mr. Rubio and Mr. Bush stuck at 10 percent, 9 percent and 8 percent, respectively. Mrs. Fiorina, who was boosted after a strong debate performance last month, has fallen back to 5 percent. The poll could spell trouble for candidates who are fighting for placement in the Republican debate later this month. Gov. Chris Christie, Gov. Bobby Jindal and Gov. John Kasich are hovering at 1 percent, and Senator Lindsey Graham and Rick Santorum failed to register at all. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.   
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			