The chairman of Hillary Rodham Clinton’s presidential campaign will meet with a group of prospective donors to the “super PAC” supporting her in New York City this week, according to an invitation to the event. John Podesta will be the featured speaker at a Manhattan event hosted by Bernard Schwartz, a longtime supporter of Mrs. Clinton. Guy Cecil, the chief strategist and co-chairman of Priorities USA Action, the super PAC, is also headlining the event. The appearance of Mr. Podesta marks a fresh level of engagement for senior campaign officials trying to help the super PAC increase its coffers. While no further meetings have been scheduled, Mr. Podesta is likely to do future events. “John Podesta is appearing at this event only as a special guest,” the invitation says. “John Podesta is not asking for funds or donations.” The event is similar to the type of meetings that advisers to President Obama, such as David Plouffe, held with potential donors to the super PAC in the 2012 cycle when it was backing the president’s re-election effort. While the campaign is banned from coordinating with the super PAC, campaign officials can appear at events as long as they don’t explicitly ask for money. Mrs. Clinton’s embrace of the super PAC phenomenon has been uneasy at times. While she recognizes the need to raise money for the one supporting her, she has expressed shock to her advisers at the fund-raising that former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida and Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin did for their supportive super PACs before they became official candidates. And she has been deeply critical of the Supreme Court decision that helped pave the way for the current big-money era of unlimited donations to outside groups. She recently announced a major campaign finance proposal that seeks to sharply alter the current landscape if she’s elected president. In a statement, Josh Schwerin, a spokesman for Mrs. Clinton, said, “Republicans are promising to spend record amounts and are even outsourcing many campaign activities to outside groups in their efforts to tear down Hillary Clinton.” He acknowledged that she has made “campaign finance reform a top priority, but cannot afford to unilaterally disarm as we work to get her elected to make the changes our country needs. This means supporting Priorities Action USA in the manner allowed by law.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			