Updated, 11:40 a.m. | A campaign’s Twitter strategy during a debate has usually been focused on bending public opinion. But starting now, it could also help bolster their bank accounts. Twitter and Square have teamed up to build a seamless donation system for political campaigns to use on Twitter’s mobile app, pegged this week to the inevitable increase in chatter that will accompany Wednesday’s Republican debate, and a dozen presidential campaigns have already signed up for the service. “This is the magic question I’ve been getting since early 2012,” said Jenna Golden, head of political ad sales at Twitter, referring to the desire of many campaigns to capitalize financially on Twitter surges. “It makes perfect sense to add a donate capability,” she said. “It’s really the perfect marriage.” To make it work, campaigns will create a Square Cash account, which gives the campaign a unique web handle, known as a “cashtag.” Then, when anyone shares the cashtag on Twitter, a donate button will appear that, when selected, will open a window for a user to input their information and donate using a debit card. And after they’ve done it once, the app saves their information, allowing for one-click donating the next time. Aside from the technological advancement, easing donations on the social network frees campaigns from the fundraising limitations of lists and event turnouts. They can now release a donation tweet, and if a celebrity or other social media influencer shares it, it reaches a whole new world of potential donors that an email list or website traffic could not, giving particular advantage to candidates with broad, grass-roots support. “We’ve always had a grass-roots, egalitarian impulse,” said Dana Wagner, the general counsel at Square, adding that the partnership with Twitter allowed them to expand upon that idea. Twitter and Square are both run by the same chief executive, Jack Dorsey, and the donation tool is one of the first formal partnerships between the companies. Campaigns have long been able to share links to their donation page on all platforms, but the experience has often been less than ideal, requiring a new browser window to open on a phone and sometimes clunky mobile presentation. Twitter and Square are hoping this integration will help ease the technological clumsiness. The integration is only evident on mobile — desktop users will be brought to a separate browser window when clicking on a link from Twitter — but the Twitter team is quick to point out that 80 percent of its user base is on mobile. Vindu Goel contributed reporting. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			