As the Capitol braces for a fiscal showdown tied to abortion issues, the head of the nation’s leading anti-abortion group said a government shutdown could be counterproductive to the group’s cause. Carol Tobias, president of the National Right to Life Committee, said her group had not taken an official position opposing a government shutdown. But despite the anti-abortion sentiment stoked by undercover videos showing Planned Parenthood officials talking about providing fetal tissue for research, she said that she saw problems with a strategy put forward by conservatives who are willing to block any government-wide funding bill if it contains money for Planned Parenthood. “Quite frankly, I think Planned Parenthood is a vile organization, and I resent the fact that they get any tax money,” Ms. Tobias said. “But realistically, with President Obama in the White House holding that veto pen, I don’t know that any government shutdown could accomplish what we want. What we have to do is get a new pro-life president in, and we’d have a much better chance of actually taking away their money.” Ms. Tobias said she preferred the approach of stand-alone measures, like those the House is set to consider this week, denying funding only for Planned Parenthood affiliates that perform abortions. She said the reality of the situation was that President Obama “would be willing to shut down the government, take money away from the military, take money away from the national parks, put all of the federal employees on leave — he would do anything and everything to keep that money flowing to Planned Parenthood.” The National Right to Life Committee has major influence in the anti-abortion community, and its political arm rates lawmakers on their voting records. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			