Senator Bernie Sanders, the Democratic presidential candidate, is using the pope’s visit to Washington to amplify his call for a wage increase for federal workers.  The independent senator from Vermont joined a rally of striking government workers on Tuesday at the Lutheran Church of the Reformation in Washington, and pressed Congress and President Obama to heed Pope Francis’ call for social and economic justice. Comparing the federal government to a low-wage employer such as Walmart or McDonald’s, he said, “there is no justice when so few have so much and so many have so little.” Mr. Sanders was joining a call to raise the minimum wage for federal workers to $15 an hour and give them the right to unionize. Last year the Obama administration raised the minimum wage for federal contract employees aseto $10.10.  Capitol workers sent a letter to Pope Francis last week explaining that many of them are homeless and cannot afford health care because of their low wages.  There is no justice when the largest low-wage employer is not McDonalds or Walmart but the US government pic.twitter.com/naHMer6OHy — Bernie Sanders (@SenSanders) September 22, 2015  For Mr. Sanders, the rally was an opportunity to use the pope’s visit to promote an important part of his political platform: income inequality. His brief remarks drew enthusiastic cheers from the mostly black and Hispanic workers who packed the church near the Capitol.  “The United States of America is the richest country in the history of the world,” Mr. Sanders said, “but most of the people do not feel that because most of the wealth and most of the income is going to the people at the top.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			