One of Hillary Rodham Clinton’s longtime advisers is scheduled to appear on Thursday before the House committee investigating the Benghazi attacks for an interview under oath. The adviser, Cheryl Mills, was Mrs. Clinton’s chief of staff at the State Department and one of the lawyers who led the defense of President Bill Clinton during his impeachment trial. The Republican-led panel wants to question Ms. Mills about the personal email account Mrs. Clinton used when she was secretary of state and how the administration responded to the 2012 attacks in Benghazi, Libya. It’s not clear that Ms. Mills will be able to answer all the questions. Some of the issues the committee wants to ask about relate to classified materials, and Ms. Mills does not have a security clearance. Ms. Mills played a significant role in providing legal advice to Mrs. Clinton regarding the release of her emails to the State Department last year. In response to questions about that process, Ms. Mills could exert attorney-client privilege. Ms. Mills’s lawyer had asked the committee to have the interview in public in an apparent effort to prevent Republicans from selectively leaking her testimony. The committee declined. None of the transcribed interviews the panel has conducted have occurred in public. The appearance comes after news that a former Clinton aide who helped set up the server that housed Mrs. Clinton’s private email account plans to invoke his Fifth Amendment right in response to congressional questions about the email practices. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			