Gov. Nikki R. Haley of South Carolina, who won accolades for swiftly moving to remove the Confederate flag from the grounds of the state capitol after the June massacre of nine black churchgoers, sharply criticized the Black Lives Matter movement on Wednesday. Citing the unrest that followed the police-involved deaths of unarmed black men in Ferguson, Mo., and Baltimore, Ms. Haley, a Republican, said the swelling African-American movement protesting  police misconduct was imperiling black lives and property. “Most of the people who now live in terror because local police are too intimidated to do their jobs are black,” Ms. Haley said at a luncheon in Washington.  “Black lives do matter, and they have been disgracefully jeopardized by the movement that has laid waste to Ferguson and Baltimore.” Ms. Haley contrasted the rioting in those communities with what she described as the reconciliation that took place in South Carolina after the death in April of Walter Scott, who was shot in the back as he ran from a police officer, and the killing of nine members of the Emanuel A.M.E. Church in Charleston. She noted that Mr. Scott’s killing prompted South Carolina to mandate that police officers wear body cameras, the first state in the country to do so, and she recalled her effort to build support for taking down the Confederate flag. “Some people think that you have to yell and scream in order to make a difference,” Ms. Haley said. “That’s not true. Often, the best thing we can do is turn down the volume level.” For Ms. Haley, at 43 the youngest governor in the country, her address to the National Press Club represented the next phase of what is essentially an audition to be the Republican vice-presidential nominee next year. Her response to the Charleston killings lifted her national profile and prompted many in the party to suggest that Ms. Haley, the daughter of Indian immigrants, should be on the short list of the eventual presidential nominee.   Ms. Haley did little to dissuade such talk during a question-and-answer session after her remarks, stating that she was focused on her state for now but that if the party standard-bearer next year approached her about joining the ticket, “of course I will sit down and talk.” Her 28-minute address illustrated how, in positioning herself for higher national prominence, she is trying to balance her conservative views with a more inclusive brand of politics that could make her attractive in a general election. So, with a handful of advisers and South Carolina political hands watching closely, Ms. Haley mixed harsh words for some black protesters and a defense of her state’s voter identification law with a call for Republicans to be more welcoming to minorities and for everybody engaged in politics to listen to one another. She also toed a delicate line when asked after her remarks about Donald J. Trump’s candidacy, calling him “a friend” but making clear that she did not approve of his trademark personal insults. Arguing that her own political success illustrated the South’s progress on race, Ms. Haley said voters should be required to show proof of identity to protect “the integrity of democracy.” But, noting that she had gotten to know the Rev. Jesse Jackson in the aftermath of the Charleston shootings, the governor pledged to “stand shoulder-to-shoulder” with the longtime civil rights activist if he wanted to lead a voter registration drive in South Carolina. “I want to make it easy for everyone who is rightfully eligible to vote to do so,” she said.   Asked in a brief interview after her speech about the additional voting restrictions some states have adopted, such as ending early vote periods or curtailing Sunday voting, Ms. Haley said that South Carolina allowed only absentee votes outside Election Day and that there had been no effort to limit those ballots.   As for her own party, Ms. Haley said that Republicans must change their tone if not their policies. “The problem for our party is that our approach often appears cold and unwelcoming to minorities,” she said.  “That is shameful, and it has to change.” But asked if Mr. Trump’s attacks on immigrants and support for ending birthright citizenship represented the party she had in mind, the governor was cautious. “He has tapped into a frustration that’s very real,” she said, but added that Mr. Trump’s personal attacks on critics did not represent “who we are as Republicans.”  As for whether she would be willing to serve as Mr. Trump’s running mate, Ms. Haley joked to the audience: “That is so wrong, whoever sent that question up.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			