How would you help the homeless? What would you do about student debt? And how good of a quarterback is Joe Flacco? Donald J. Trump answered these questions and more in a video Twitter chat, part of his strategy of using social media, rather than traditional advertising, to reach voters. The 20-second responses offered Mr. Trump the opportunity to give short, clear answers as to how he would “make America great again.” I just wrapped up a Q&A @TwitterNYC. Thanks for all your questions! #AskTrump pic.twitter.com/zpbcRHfxy6 — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 21, 2015  The format did not allow Mr. Trump to share much detail on his policies, but he did offer assurances that he was up for the task of being president. For instance, when asked about how he would address the plight of first responders, he expressed empathy that many of them were “living in hell” with lots of different medical conditions. “We’re going to help them out,” Mr. Trump said, explaining that he would look to increase the availability of medical care. “I’ll be helping them, I’ll be there.” Mr. Trump conducted the session in Twitter’s New York offices and was the first candidate to use its Q.-and-A. tool. The company, which offered its assistance free to Mr. Trump, said it was open to working with politicians of all stripes. “Twitter is an open platform for diverse political views, and over the years our offices have hosted public figures ranging from Hillary Clinton to Russian President Dmitry Medvedev,” said Nick Pacilio, a Twitter spokesman. The billionaire developer addressed a range of issues, but he also had his fair share of hecklers, including some who suggested that he was racist and others who wondered if his candidacy was really just an act. .@realDonaldTrump @TwitterNYC Are you secretly just the greatest performance artist the modern age has ever seen? #askTrump — Aude White (@audevwhite) September 21, 2015  
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			