As the 2016 presidential campaign gets into gear, one of the biggest debates so far has been about the debates. For some Democrats, such as Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, there aren’t enough planned. For lesser-known Republicans, the polling criteria could make it difficult for them to even get on the stage. Now advocates for third-party groups are making the case that the election laws are rigged to make it impossible for candidates who are not Republicans or Democrats to ever get elected. The advocates, which include Level the Playing Field, the Green Party of the United States and the Libertarian National Committee, filed a lawsuit Monday against the Federal Election Commission, accusing the agency of failing to fairly regulate the debate process. At the center of the lawsuit is the Commission on Presidential Debates, which the election commission regulates. The third-party groups contend that the debates commission illegally excludes candidates who are not members of one of the two major parties and that it is not, in fact, nonpartisan. “It is unlikely that the American people will ever have a chance to elect the independent candidate that they would prefer because the political system is rigged to favorÂ Democrats and Republicans,” according to the complaint. The group is asking the F.E.C. to find that the Commission on Presidential Debates has violated the rules on accepting partisan financial contributions and to revise its rules to broaden participation in presidential debates. The F.E.C. did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Opening up the election process even further could come with its own obstacles. As The New York Times reported this month, more than 300 candidates have already declared that they are seeking the White House in 2016. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			