Republicans have been criticizing President Obama’s nuclear deal with Iran, but those with longer memories recall that it was one of their own who set the United States on the path toward negotiations. Nine years ago, President George W. Bush agreed to join Europeans at the negotiating table with Iran. At the time, the conditions were that Iran must suspend uranium activities for talks to engage about halting its nuclear program in exchange for economic and political benefits. “It’s conceptually a deep irony because this diplomatic outreach was originally designed and engineered by President Bush,” said Philip Zelikow, a University of Virginia professor who was a deputy to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice in Mr. Bush’s administration. “It’s convenient for Republicans and Democrats to forget this.” Mr. Zelikow said that there was intense debate within the Bush administration at the time over whether to engage Iran and that ultimately talks failed when its leadership had a change of heart. It’s hard to know how Mr. Bush would have handled this round of negotiations with Iran, Mr. Zelikow surmised, because Iran’s nuclear capabilities have progressed since the previous administration. Stephen Hadley, a former foreign policy adviser to Mr. Bush, said that he thinks the Bush administration would have been wary of allowing Iran to retain the ability to enrich uranium, as the current deal does, but that perhaps a symbolic amount might have been allowed in the final negotiations. But, he said, looking past Iran’s other misdeeds would have been a problem. “People say how can you negotiate with the Iranians on the nuclear issue and not on the other things they’re doing,” Mr. Hadley said, alluding to, among other things, its support of groups like Hezbollah. “I’m confident that the Bush administration would have done something to find a broader framework to deal with Iran’s negative activities.” One former adviser to Mr. Bush was less confident in how he would have handled the situation. John Bolton, the foreign policy hawk who was his ambassador to the United Nations, said the pressure to get something done might have made such a deal move forward. “I don’t know, I would have to worry about the constant dripping of water on a stone from the State Department and the Europeans wanting to negotiate,” said Mr. Bolton, who remains steadfast that engagement with Iran is a bad idea. “It’s a dark day for the republic, I must say.” 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			