Former Senator Jim Webb, the Democrat from Virginia, has struggled to generate much excitement over his potential presidential campaign, but on Wednesday he managed to attract some attention with some curious comments about the Confederate battle flag. In a statement on Facebook, Mr. Webb said that any discussion of the flag needed to be tempered with respect for the “complicated history of the Civil War.” He went on to explain that while the flag had been used as a symbol of racism in recent decades, that was not always the case. “We should also remember that honorable Americans fought on both sides in the Civil War, including slave holders in the Union Army from states such as Missouri, Kentucky, Maryland and Delaware, and that many nonslave holders fought for the South,” Mr. Webb wrote. The Confederate flag has been denounced by Democrats and Republicans alike in the last week since the killing of nine churchgoers in Charleston, S.C. Mr. Webb’s sentiment was rebutted by even his most loyal backers on Wednesday. “As one of your most enthusiastic supporters, I have to disagree with you on this issue,” David Dickerson wrote in a comment on Mr. Webb’s post. “As a fellow Southerner, I prefer to take Robert E. Lee’s path and disassociate from that flag and what it stands for.” Others, such as Jordan Genso, expressed disappointment. “I don’t need to agree with you on every issue in order to support you, but this should be low-hanging fruit for you to be on the right side of,” Mr. Genso wrote. “And there’s no reason not to state that the Confederate battle flag represents a quasi-nation whose short existence was spent trying to fight for an immoral cause.” Mr. Webb has a history of defending the confederacy. In a 1990 speech at the Confederate Memorial in Arlington, Va., he said, “I am not here to apologize for why they fought, although modern historians might contemplate that there truly were different perceptions in the North and South about those reasons, and that most Southern soldiers viewed the driving issue to be sovereignty rather than slavery.” In 2008, Politico reported that Mr. Webb’s book “Born Fighting” seemed to sympathize with the Confederate cause, potentially giving pause to then Senator Barack Obama as he was vetting potential running mates. In Mr. Webb’s book, Born Fighting, he wrote about acquiring a Confederate headstone through the Veterans Administration for a great-great-grandfather. A Vietnam War veteran who has been considered a potential presidential candidate over the years, Mr. Webb announced last year that he was forming a presidential exploratory committee. This year, he said the Democratic Party could do a better job appealing to white working-class voters. On Wednesday, Mr. Webb recalled that the Confederate Memorial at Arlington National Cemetery was meant to recognize the character of soldiers who fought on both sides of the Civil War. “This is a time for us to come together,” he said, “and to recognize once more that our complex multicultural society is founded on the principle of mutual respect.” 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			