President Obama and Jeb Bush have found something they agree on: Peas in guacamole are a no-no. The meeting of the taste buds came after The New York Times posted a recipe suggestion on Twitter that adding peas was a good idea. The recipe,  which started a  debate on Twitter so raucous that Mr. Obama was asked about it,  suggests that “the peas add intense sweetness and a chunky texture to the dip, making it more substantial on the chip.” But Mr. Obama begged to differ. Asked about the recipe in a Twitter chat on Wednesday, the president was steadfast in his support for the traditional recipe. respect the nyt, but not buying peas in guac. onions, garlic, hot peppers. classic. https://t.co/MEEI8QHH1V — President Obama (@POTUS) July 1, 2015  There were few proponents of peas on Twitter and even Mr. Bush, the Republican from Florida who is running to succeed Mr. Obama, concurred. You don't put peas in guacamole  https://t.co/kG3ewrVv6f — Jeb Bush (@JebBush) July 1, 2015  For Mr. Obama, the subject of guacamole is no laughing matter. Last year he revealed that a good bowl of chips and guacamole was one of his weaknesses.  “I lose my mind,” he said of his love of the dip.  Of course, peas are not exactly banned from the White House. Michelle Obama, the first lady who is a proponent of healthy eating, featured a recipe for a minty spring pea salad in her book “American Grown.”  Sam Sifton, The Times’s food editor, noted that the paper had more than a dozen recipes for guacamole, but defended the addition of peas.  He'll come 'round. //t.co/nC4YqxQAQW https://t.co/4PfMu4deau — Sam Sifton (@SamSifton) July 1, 2015  
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			