
Updated, 5:22 p.m. | 
Gov. Scott Walker’s attempt at cheese-steak diplomacy appeared to backfire on Tuesday when he stopped at both Pat’s and Geno’s, rival sandwich establishments, during a campaign swing through Philadelphia. His crime? Asking for American cheese. Connoisseurs of Philadelphia cheese steaks were aghast that the Republican presidential candidate from Wisconsin would opt against Cheez Whiz, the local condiment of choice, as well as the customary onions. Scott Walker went to Geno's for a cheesesteak with American cheese and no onions?  Everything about his policy is wrong — Adam Theo (@AdamTheSz) July 28, 2015  While Mr. Walker was apparently trying not to play favorites by eating at both restaurants, some Philadelphians sneered atÂ him for not finishing his meal. Perhaps, it was suggested, he was not hungry enough for their votes. Smh Scott Walker can't finish a cheesesteak. Republicans will never win the Philly vote. — Silas DoGood (@PecoooPowerplay) July 28, 2015  Some also scolded Mr. Walker for visiting Geno’s, which has a been criticized for its policy of requiring customers to order in English. Scott Walker goes to the racist cheesesteak stand, gets American cheese instead of wiz, and gets no onions. — Sergio (@salobonavia) July 28, 2015  Sandwiches are serious business in Philadelphia, but they can be pitfalls for visiting politicians. In 2003, John F. Kerry, then a senator from Massachusetts running for president, was jeered when he ordered Swiss cheese during a visit to Pat’s. A spokeswoman for Mr. Walker’s campaign pointed to a 2008 poll in which those surveyed said American cheese was a perfectly acceptable topping on a cheese steak. In fact, it proved more popular than provolone or Whiz. Uncowed by protestors, Mr. Walker on Tuesday seemed to enjoy his lunch despite the limelight and had no shame in his choice of cheese. Stopped by 2 iconic places in Philly: Geno's Steaks & Pat's King of Steaks. Yes, I ordered American cheese! -SW pic.twitter.com/C6XmENPSIe — Scott Walker (@ScottWalker) July 28, 2015  
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			