Surrounded by two of the “three amigos” — as former Gen. David H. Petraeus called them — Senator Lindsey Graham appeared with Senator John McCain and former Senator Joseph I. Lieberman in New York on Monday to denounce the deal to contain Iran’s nuclear program. Mr. Graham, a Republican presidential hopeful from South Carolina who is one of the most hawkish voices in his party, repeatedly invoked the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center, just over three miles from the Women’s National Republican Club in Midtown Manhattan, where the “No Nukes for Iran” forum was held. “My friends, what we will see is a nuclearized Middle East,” said Mr. Graham of the deal’s implications, arguing it would extend well beyond Iran. “They view New York as a symbol of America. This is the place they would choose to hit us again if they could.” He mentioned Hillary Rodham Clinton, the Democratic presidential contender and former senator from New York, and used a well-worn line that she “could have gotten a better deal than this.” The crowd of mostly older voters greeted the line with silence. “To the American people, I will do everything I can to make sure that there is never another 9/11,” Mr. Graham said of the attacks that killed more than 3,000 people. Referring to the terrorists who carried out that attack, he said: “They could not get the weapons to kill three million of us. If they could, they would.”  Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			