The second Republican presidential debate is less than a month away, and the jockeying for a coveted spot on the main stage is occurring in earnest. Carly Fiorina, the former Hewlett-Packard executive who was relegated to the debate for second-tier candidates this month, has called on the Republican Party to insist that the game is not “rigged” to keep political outsiders such as herself out of the prime-time event. Mrs. Fiorina was widely seen as the winner as the undercard debate hosted by Fox. “Despite being solidly in the top 10 by every measure, the political establishment is still rigging the game to keep Carly off the main debate stage next month,” said Sarah Isgur Flores, Mrs. Fiorina’s deputy campaign manager. CNN is hosting the Sept. 16 debate and is planning to use an average of polls dating to mid-July to determine which 10 candidates will be allowed to participate. Since Mrs. Fiorina’s last debate performance she has seen her polling numbers rise, but CNN’s criteria would not fully capture that bounce.  “It will be interesting to see if CNN has no qualms excluding someone who is polling in the top five in Iowa and New Hampshire, in second place in multiple states, and well within the top 10 nationally,” Ms. Flores said, calling on the Republican National Committee to intervene.  Mrs. Fiorina also criticized the rules on Wednesday, arguing on NBC that state polls should be a consideration in determining a candidate’s debate qualifications. Regardless where she lands, Mrs. Fiorina said she would continue reach as many voters face-to-face as she can.   “I don’t have any impact over the rules,” she said. “I think that’s why people are losing trust in the media, frankly, and are upset in many cases with the R.N.C.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			