The sparring between the presidential candidates Jeb Bush and Hillary Rodham Clinton has started early, and in this case the fight is over who better understands the plight of the American worker.  Mr. Bush caused a stir on Wednesday when he appeared to suggest in New Hampshire that Americans needed to start putting in more hours.    “We have to be a lot more productive,” Mr. Bush said, referring to how to 4 percent economic growth could be achieved. “Work force participation has to rise form its all time modern lows, it means that people need to work longer hours and through their productivity gain more income for their families.” Democrats seized on the notion that Americans were not working hard enough to criticize Mr. Bush as being out of touch, and Mrs. Clinton, a Democrat, also made sure to take notice, suggesting that he needs to get out more. Anyone who believes Americans aren't working hard enough hasn't met enough American workers. pic.twitter.com/wyS1p8zcDo — Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) July 9, 2015  The former Florida governor, a Republican, later clarified his remarks, explaining that he was referring to the glut of part-time workers who have not been able to find full-time employment in the aftermath of the recession. In a Twitter message in response to Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Bush argued that it was she who has not been paying attention to what workers are saying. Anyone who discounts 6.5 million people stuck in part-time work & seeking full-time jobs hasnt listened to working Americans @hillaryclinton — Jeb Bush (@JebBush) July 9, 2015  
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			