Hillary Rodham Clinton, in a speech on Thursday, will accuse some of her Republican presidential rivals of supporting a spate of new state voting laws that she says threatened the democratic process, her campaign said on Wednesday.  At the historically black Texas Southern University in Houston, Mrs. Clinton will propose a series of voter-protection policies, including ensuring greater access to online voter registration, reducing wait times at voting precincts and setting a nationwide early voting standard of at least 20 days before an election, according to an outline of her speech provided to reporters on Wednesday. She will also underscore her support for allowing former felons to vote and call on Congress to re-enact parts of the Voting Rights Act that the Supreme Court struck down in 2013. The speech will be one of Mrs. Clinton’s most substantive and sharply political events since she declared her candidacy in April. For the most part, her campaign stops have included orchestrated round-table policy discussions with a handful of voters in early nominating states — not in-depth policy proposals or fiery partisan attacks. Mrs. Clinton on Thursday will also single out some of her potential Republican rivals, including Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida and former Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, whose states have enacted laws that impose additional requirements on voters. According to the outline of her speech, Mrs. Clinton will also present a state-by-state critique of new voting laws across the country that require voters to present government-issued identification, laws that voting rights activists say disproportionately hurt minority and young voters, groups that tend to vote Democratic. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			