The Nevada Legislature adjourned Monday without voting on a measure to change the state’s presidential nominating process from caucuses to a primary, a blow to Jeb Bush, who was hoping for the switch. Some Nevada Republicans supported the change, but the party’s leaders in the Assembly did not think there were enough votes for passage and never called the roll. That was in part because Harry Reid, the state’s senior United States senator and the Democratic leader, intervened to help torpedo the change. Mr. Reid called Harvey Munford, the lone Democratic member of the Assembly to support the switch in committee, and persuaded him to drop his support. Mr. Bush’s team was not directly involved in trying to make the switch, but was relying on allies in the state and from the Republican National Committee. Mr. Bush, who has made two campaign trips to Nevada, was hoping for a primary because there would be a far larger pool of voters participating beyond the conservatives who often dominate caucuses. Fewer than 33,000 of the state’s approximately 400,000 registered Republicans voted in the state’s 2012 presidential caucuses. Nevada recently earned a coveted spot near the beginning of the presidential nominating calendar, and is slated to be the fourth state to hold a vote in 2016. “When Nevada was moved up in the process as an early state it was contingent on Nevada as a caucus state, not a primary,” wrote Kristen Orthman, a spokeswoman for Mr. Reid, in an email. “With this bill we (Nevada Democrats) felt it jeopardized that status because it created uncertainty.” Mr. Reid’s involvement has raised Republican suspicions that the Senate’s top Democrat, known for backstage maneuvering, was trying to undermine Mr. Bush and perhaps Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, both of whom are looking to Nevada to score an early victory. “Primaries allow for greater voter participation in the electoral process,” said Sean Spicer, a senior official at the Republican National Committee. “It’s sad that Harry Reid’s last stand was a push to keep more Nevada citizens from participating,” Mr. Spicer said, referring to Mr. Reid’s decision not to seek re-election next year. But it was not only Democrats who ensured the state would continue to caucus; some conservative Republican Assembly members also balked at the switch. Gov. Brian Sandoval, a Republican friendly with Mr. Bush, and his allies were not focused on the issue because they were shepherding an expansive tax and education measure through the Legislature in the final days of the session. Mr. Sandoval could call the Legislature back into a special session to change the law, but few think that is likely. Asked what the chances were for such a possibility, Jon Ralston, a longtime political commentator in the state said, “None.” Now it remains unclear how aggressively Mr. Bush will compete in a state with a significant Hispanic population. Mr. Bush speaks fluent Spanish, and his advisers viewed Nevada as one of his best opportunities to earn a victory in the first weeks of the nominating contest. The Nevada Republican Party is controlled by a conservative faction, and some consultants fear the caucuses will not be fairly and competently executed. A spokesman for Mr. Bush declined to comment. Alex Conant, a spokesman for Mr. Rubio, said that campaign remained committed to “strongly compete in every contest, including the Nevada caucuses.” Nevada’s decision to remain a caucus state is good news for at least one Republican presidential hopeful — Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky. “Nevada stays a caucus!” John Yob, Mr. Paul’s political director, posted on Twitter on Monday night. “NV will be an important state spring boarding into Super Tuesday. #standwithrand” Mr. Paul enjoys a strong following in the libertarian wing of the state’s Republican Party. Mr. Paul’s father, former Representative Ron Paul, won 19 percent of the caucus vote there in 2012. A version of this article appears in print on 06/03/2015, on page A18 of the NewYork edition with the headline: In Setback to Bush, Nevada Retains Caucusing System. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			