Hillary Rodham Clinton continues to command a sizable lead in a poll released on Monday of Iowa Democrats, who will cast the first votes of the presidential nominating race early next year. At the same time, Democrats are worried that revelations about Mrs. Clinton could hurt her in the general election. Mrs. Clinton is the choice of 57 percent of likely Democratic Iowa caucusgoers, followed by 16 percent for Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont and 2 percent for former Gov. Martin O’Malley of Maryland. Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who has shown little interest in running, received 8 percent. The poll was conducted for The Des Moines Register and Bloomberg Politics from May 25 to 29. Mr. Sanders, who drew large crowds in the state during the end of that period, was up from 5 percent in a January survey by the same pollsters. He has inherited the support of his party’s most liberal wing that once favored Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who was not included in the poll after repeatedly saying she was not a candidate. Mr. Sanders or Mr. O’Malley, who officially entered the race on Saturday and is also carving out a lane to the left of Mrs. Clinton, seem to have room to grow: 37 percent of likely Democratic caucusgoers said their political beliefs were closer to Ms. Warren’s than Mrs. Clinton’s. Support for Mrs. Clinton stayed steady since the earlier Iowa poll in January. It showed no softening despite the continuing spate of negative news accounts of foreign donations to her family foundation while she was secretary of state, her use of a private email account in office, and a Republican-led investigation of her handling of the attacks in Benghazi, Libya. But 66 percent of Democrats said that at least one of those issues will hurt Mrs. Clinton in the general election if she is the nominee. Follow the New York Times Politics and Washington on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			