Advertisement By KATIE ROGERSAUG. 5, 2015
 Eleanor Roosevelt, who spent 12 years in the White House as first lady and traveled the world as a human-rights advocate, is the front-runner for the new face of the $10 bill, according to a poll. Released on Wednesday, results from a Marist poll show that 27 percent of those surveyed would choose Mrs. Roosevelt. Harriet Tubman, the African-American abolitionist, was the second choice, with 17 percent. Sacagawea, the Shoshone woman who served as a translator and guide for the Lewis and Clark expedition, garnered 13 percent of the vote. A New York Times obituary for Mrs. Roosevelt in 1962 described her as an energetic first lady to Franklin D. Roosevelt — her personality was both a strength and a burden, and, at first, her liveliness prompted criticism and jokes. Over the years, through her involvement with the United Nations and her work for civil rights, admiration for her deepened. “She had become not only the wife and widow of a towering President,” the obituary read, “but a noble personality in herself.” Advertisement In June, the United States Treasury announced that a woman would replace Alexander Hamilton on the bill, with the only criterion being that the person chosen must be dead. Advertisement Earlier this year, Ms. Tubman was announced as the most popular choice in a social media campaign to replace President Andrew Jackson on the $20 bill. Advocates still want to see a woman take the controversial president’s place on that currency. “Some people are saying it’s a lesser bill, and in fact it is a lesser bill both in value and in the fact that it is much less widely viewed and circulated,” Susan Ades Stone, the executive director of Women on 20s, told The New York Times in June. “It’s not the face we see at the bank coming out of the A.T.M.” A favorable poll does not necessarily mean that Mrs. Roosevelt would ultimately be the chosen face on the $10 bill. The Treasury is monitoring social media suggestions as well as hosting meetings and discussions about the candidates. People are using the hashtag #TheNew10 to suggest their picks: 
            Nobel Prize winning Barbara McClintock would be perfect fit for #TheNew10 & show that America values women in science pic.twitter.com/7fHCftskwh  
            Dear Secretary Lew @USTreasury you should consider Harriet Tubman to replace Hamilton. #TheNew10 #Hamiltonintherafters  
#TheNew10-Henrietta Lacks. Science, technology, human interest.         When a woman is chosen, Mr. Hamilton, the nation’s first Treasury secretary, will not disappear entirely: Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew has “made it clear” that Mr. Hamilton will remain a part of the bill, according to the Treasury. The bill has been issued five times, including its first introduction in 1914. Its first occupant was President Jackson, who was later replaced by Mr. Hamilton in 1929. The bill with the newest face will not begin circulating until after 2020, the Treasury has said. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »