Advertisement By MAGGIE HABERMANSEPT. 6, 2016
 Hillary Clinton and Donald J. Trump, with Labor Day behind them, enter the final stretch of the grueling 2016 presidential campaign on Tuesday as they emerge from Ohio and fan out across the country. Mrs. Clinton began using a different plane this week, accompanied by her press corps, who until now had been flying separately. Mrs. Clinton, who went about nine months without addressing her traveling press corps, answered questions for nearly half an hour on Monday on topics including the controversy over her use of a private email server while secretary of state and whether Russia was trying to meddle in the elections. Mr. Trump held his own news conference aboard his personal plane, which reporters are occasionally allowed to fly on. But reporters do not travel with him full time, and that practice diverges from the approach taken by previous nominees who submitted to having a “protective pool” of journalists follow them everywhere. The fact that it makes news when the candidates let reporters travel on their planes says something about the state of this election. Advertisement Monday was also another milestone — three weeks until the first presidential debate between two nominees from New York, to be held on Long Island.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The campaign trail will get busier in the prelude to the debates and to the voting on Nov. 8. On Tuesday, Mrs. Clinton will hold a rally in Tampa, Fla., while her running mate, Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia, will give a national security speech in Wilmington, N.C. Advertisement Mr. Trump will hold rallies in Virginia Beach and Greenville, N.C., and Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana, his running mate, will make two stops in Missouri. The trips that Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Trump made to Ohio, a crucial battleground state, highlighted the disparities between them. Mrs. Clinton’s team and the Democrats have a well-established ground game in the state, while Mr. Trump, who is at odds with the state’s Republican governor, John R. Kasich, lags far behind in organization. Turnout efforts and a focus on absentee ballot programs could help determine the outcome of close contests in crucial states. And with two months left, Mr. Trump has a wide gap to close. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »