
                                        The Republican National Convention wraps up Thursday in Tampa, Fla., and The New York Times will provide live, comprehensive coverage of the events, people and politics on the Web and mobile devices and in print. Among the highlights:  
                                        News  
                                        TimesCast Politics At 2 and 7 p.m. Eastern time, our live video broadcast from Tampa will take readers behind the scenes with newsmaker interviews, analysis from Times journalists and articles exploring various aspects of the campaign.  
                                        Voter Portraits A collection of photos and voices from potential voters.  
                                        Convention Speeches Watch the major addresses live on the Web and mobile devices. Come back Friday morning for speech highlights and annotated video and transcripts.  
                                        Live Blog Starting around 7 p.m., Times reporters, editors and photographers will provide real-time news, analysis and scenes from the hall.  
                                        Convention Storybook On Friday, a narrated multimedia presentation featuring highlights from the convention.  
                                        Election 2012 App The latest news from The Times and other top sources. Plus opinion, polls, campaign data and live video.  
                                        The Caucus Blog Updates, interviews and vignettes throughout the day.  
Social Media For on-the-ground reporting,
                                        follow the Times political team on Facebook at Facebook.com/nytimespolitics and on Twitter at @thecaucus. Find more Times journalists on Twitter at nytimes.com/politics.
                                         
                                        Photo Slide Shows  
                                        A daily look at people, places and events.  
                                        Opinion  
                                        TimesCast Opinion Charles M. Blow hosts conversations with other columnists and editorial board members.  
                                        Google+ Hangouts The Op-Ed columnists Gail Collins and Frank Bruni speak with six women from around the country and across the political spectrum about whether a Republican-led &apos;&apos;war on women&apos;&apos; is a real thing or merely political talk.
                                        4-4:30 p.m.  
                                        Op-Docs The comedian and commentator Mo Rocca hosts &apos;&apos;Electoral Dysfunction,&apos;&apos; a video series.  
                                        Columns, Editorials and Blogs Op-Ed columnists and editorial board members provide analysis, commentary and dispatches on the Campaign Stops and Taking Note blogs.  
                                        Room for Debate Tom Brokaw, David Gergen and others discuss how to improve conventions. Later in the week, experts debate whether Republican calls for budget cuts are too risky right now.  
                                        Twitter The Opinion section (nytimes.com  
/opinion) will host highly opinionated Twitter messages from Op-Ed columnists including Charles M. Blow, Ross Douthat, Frank Bruni and Bill Keller, and editorial board members.
                                         


 
                                        PHOTOS
                                     
                                        GRAPHIC 
 
 