DES MOINES – Senator Ted Cruz, who has been harshly criticizing Donald J. Trump all week on the campaign trail and in television commercials here, is now broadening his attacks to include Senator Marco Rubio, an unmistakable acknowledgment that Mr. Rubio is gaining support in the closing days before the Monday caucuses. Mr. Cruz incorporated a critique of Mr. Rubio into his closing stump speech at a rally in West Des Moines on Wednesday night, arguing that his colleague had effectively given up the fight against same-sex marriage after the Supreme Court ruling last year legalized those unions. “Several of the leading Republican candidates, including both Donald Trump and Marco Rubio, said publicly this decision is settled, it’s the law of the land, we should accept it, surrender and move on,” said Mr. Cruz, drawing boos. “Those are word for word the talking points of Barack Obama. There is something profoundly wrong when Republican presidential candidates are reading Barack Obama’s talking points on marriage.” Just as striking, Mr. Cruz’s campaign quietly began running an ad in Iowa Thursday targeting Mr. Rubio over his support of “amnesty” for undocumented immigrants. Showing images of Mr. Rubio standing with the so-called Gang of Eight senators who wrote the 2013 immigration overhaul, the spot features a clip from Rush Limbaugh explaining that the Florida senator was a part of that group while Mr. Cruz was not. The ad, which Mr. Cruz’s campaign did not release to the media, also flashes a message on screen: “Rubio betrayed our trust.” Mr. Cruz has not been reluctant to criticize Mr. Rubio when faced with questions from voters and reporters. But until now he has not used his carefully crafted stump speech to attack his colleague by name. And while a group supporting Mr. Cruz has run ads criticizing Mr. Rubio, the Cruz campaign has not until now. Mr. Cruz’s pivot toward Mr. Rubio underscores the degree to which the Texas senator, after leading here for over a month, is effectively fighting a two-front war in Iowa. He is furiously attempting to portray the ascendant Mr. Trump as an inauthentic conservative while also scrambling to tamp down an emerging threat from Mr. Rubio. After hovering in single digits for months in Iowa, Mr. Rubio has moved into the teens in many surveys here. And the same public polls indicate that Mr. Trump now has overtaken Mr. Cruz in Iowa, but there are substantial questions over how close the race is because of questions over how many Republicans will participate in the caucuses. Mr. Trump’s lead is significantly higher under polling models that project a turnout above 150,000, but the race narrows when turnout is projected closer to 130,000. About 121,500 Iowa Republicans cast votes in the 2012 Iowa caucuses, a number most in the state expect to be exceeded on Monday. Nick Corasaniti contributed reporting. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			