The Democratic presidential candidates may gather one more time in New Hampshire for a televised debate days before voters head to the polls there. The debate, which has not been sanctioned by the Democratic National Committee, would be hosted by NBC News and The New Hampshire Union Leader, and it would be held Feb. 4 in New Hampshire. Joseph McQuaid, the publisher of The Union Leader, confirmed the plans.   BuzzFeed News first reported on the debate plans.   The final sanctioned debate before the New Hampshire primary has already taken place. The D.N.C. could bar candidates from future debates if they took part in unsanctioned ones.  It was not immediately clear whether Hillary Clinton and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont would take part in the debate. Martin O’Malley, who has repeatedly called for more debates,  immediately accepted. But Mrs. Clinton’s advisers have said they believe they erred in urging a limited number of debates when they were being scheduled last year. And Mr. Sanders said recently that if Mrs. Clinton and Mr. O’Malley were willing to participate, he would support holding more debates.     In a statement Tuesday, Mr. O’Malley’s campaign director in New Hampshire, John Bivona, pointed out that the state has only had one debate.  “Today is a big victory not only for our campaign and our supporters that championed this effort, but it is also a victory for voters across New Hampshire and the United States,” Mr. Bivona said. “We look forward to participating.”    Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. A version of this article appears in print on 01/27/2016, on page A14 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Democrats May Face Off Again Before New Hampshire Primary. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			