Donald J. Trump will take the stage Thursday night at the CNN-Telemundo debate in Texas with a new title: three-time winner. The stakes for many of the debates have been high, but none so high as this one. It represents one of the final chances for Senator Marco Rubio of Florida to produce a galvanizing, breakout moment. And it is the last chance for Senator Ted Cruz, whose home state of Texas votes on Super Tuesday next week, to try to fend off Mr. Trump there.  The evening is not risk free for Mr. Trump, who has benefited enormously from the previously crowded Republican debate stages, where Mr. Cruz went after him only once, and where, with the exception of Jeb Bush, the candidates basically left him alone. If Mr. Cruz and Mr. Rubio do not engage Mr. Trump directly, it will lead to more questions about why no one, for all the establishment complaints about the real-estate developer, has tried harder to stop him.  But Mr. Trump may also face tougher questioning. Mitt Romney, who sought Mr. Trump’s endorsement in 2012 but has grown critical of his candidacy, also essentially volunteered a question to the debate moderators on Wednesday. Mr. Romney went on Fox News and, just as Senator Harry Reid of Nevada did to him in 2012, wondered what might be hiding in Mr. Trump’s tax returns. It is a question Mr. Trump might not like facing on a debate stage.  Also worth watching is how Gov. John Kasich of Ohio approaches Mr. Rubio. Mr. Kasich has grown increasingly critical of Mr. Rubio this week, after running a sunny race for most of the primary. But Mr. Rubio’s aides have all but demanded Mr. Kasich drop out of the race, a suggestion the governor has not taken kindly.   Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			