Days before he is set to campaign within miles of Bill Clinton, Donald J. Trump ratcheted up his attacks on the former president over scandals involving women before and during his presidency, calling him one of “the great abusers of the world.”  The broadside came at a rally in Hilton Head, S.C., where Mr. Trump addressed a few thousand people.  On Monday, Mr. Trump will hold a rally in Massachusetts near the New Hampshire border, while Mr. Clinton will be campaigning there for his wife, Hillary Clinton. Mr. Trump, appearing to be trying to get under the former president’s skin, insisted once again that he was only raising the issue because Mrs. Clinton said he had a  “penchant for sexism” after he mocked her for taking too long during a bathroom break at the last Democratic debate and used a vulgar term to describe her loss to President Obama in the 2008 primary.  “When she said that, I had no choice,” Mr. Trump said. “You can’t let people push you around.” He added, “We view this as war.” Aides to both Clintons declined to comment. A spokeswoman for Mrs. Clinton said earlier this week that the candidate would not be “bullied” by Mr. Trump, who has silenced several of his Republican rivals during the course of the campaign.  Mr. Clinton has, in the past, become animated when he felt his wife was being attacked, such as during the 2008 primary, a fact that Mr. Trump referenced at another point in recent days.  By AMY CHOZICK Donald J. Trump once defended Bill Clinton against allegations of scandal and sexism. But in the past week, any semblance of friendship ended. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			