New upheaval engulfed Ben Carson’s troubled presidential campaign on Thursday as his campaign manager and his spokesman resigned abruptly after a deep rift with an outside adviser to the candidate. The resignations of Barry Bennett, the campaign manager, and Doug Watts, the spokesman, come as Mr. Carson has been scrambling to stop a slide in polls amid questions about his grasp of foreign policy and scrutiny of his biographical narrative with the Iowa caucuses looming on Feb. 1. The top aides were in a tug of war for Mr. Carson’s allegiance with an outside adviser, Armstrong Williams, a volatile situation that speaks of the management style of Mr. Carson, a retired surgeon. The candidate has tried to make his lack of political experience a selling point, but his handling of his warring aides risks painting a picture of an indecisive executive just as voters in Iowa are paying close attention.  In interviews on Dec. 23 that Mr. Armstrong had arranged without the top aides’ knowledge, Mr. Carson suggested that their jobs were on the line, telling reporters “everything is on the table, every job is on the table.” But Mr. Bennett denied that Mr. Carson planned to fire him. He said that when he told Mr. Carson he was resigning in a previously scheduled phone call on Thursday morning, Mr. Carson asked him to reconsider. “My job was not in jeopardy,” he said. “But obviously there were internal problems in the campaign I can’t fix.”
In an interview before the news broke, Mr. Williams said, “Dr. Carson is back in control.” “This is what happens when there’s a sentiment shift,” Mr. Williams added. “It’s not easy letting go people that have been there.” To oversee his campaign, Mr. Carson picked Robert F. Dees, a retired Army general on the staff of Liberty University. Mr. Dees said recently that he met Mr. Carson in February and that, to school the candidate in foreign policy, the two had “locked ourselves up in a hotel room a couple of different sessions and took walks around the world.” Mr. Bennett said Mr. Williams, a conservative radio host and longtime friend of Mr. Carson’s, had made decisions for the candidate without consulting others.  “I can’t stop Armstrong Williams from doing stupid things,” Mr. Bennett said, attributing some of Mr. Carson’s struggles on foreign policy to Mr. Williams. Just two months ago, Mr. Carson was riding high in his presidential bid, having surged to the top of some polls in Iowa. But then he faced scrutiny of elements of his biography and questions about his knowledge of foreign policy, particularly after the terrorist attacks in Paris and San Bernardino, Calif., which thrust the issue of national security to the fore of the presidential race.  Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. A version of this article appears in print on 01/01/2016, on page A16 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Top Carson Aides Resign Abruptly as His Presidential Campaign Struggles. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			