Jeb Bush outlined a series of proposed changes to federal regulations on Tuesday, arguing that the Obama administration has stifled economic growth and pledging to freeze the publication of new rules until they are approved by an agency head that Mr. Bush nominates. Mr. Bush, who was to discuss the plan during a campaign swing in Iowa, plans to install a “one in, one out” regulatory budget, according to his campaign, requiring officials to offset any regulatory costs they propose. Mr. Bush would also create a commission tasked with identifying laws to be modified or repealed and areas of regulation that Congress should cede to the states. Mr. Bush, the former governor of Florida, would require his nominees to take a “regulatory Hippocratic oath,” the campaign said, in which they would promise to “do no harm” through their policies. “The oath will remind regulators to be humble about their ability to ‘solve’ complex problems better than the American people,” the Bush campaign said in an outline of the proposals, released on its website. (In a more poetic turn, the campaign likened regulations to “sediment in a harbor, building up over time, and ensuring that Americans must consult a rule book or hire a lobbyist to accomplish basic tasks.”)  Mr. Bush has released a series of detailed policy plans, including a widely discussed tax plan this month — often pointing to the proposals to establish a contrast with other candidates in the Republican field, particularly Donald J. Trump, whose campaign has been largely devoid of policy details. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			