New Hampshire primaries can be unpredictable, particularly in an election when the occupant in the White House is a lame duck. With independents able to vote in either party, predicting the universe of likely voters is tricky.  So the polls heading into Tuesday’s vote are a window, but an opaque one. Donald J. Trump seems poised for a win if the polls are to be believed, but by what margin remains to be seen. Another question is whether his last-minute use of an expletive to describe Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, first used by a woman in the crowd at Mr. Trump’s final rally on Monday, will sink in with voters. Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont also seems poised for a win over Hillary Clinton, but again, by what margin is the main question. Mrs. Clinton had seemed to have moved beyond attacking Mr. Sanders, until she used opposition research to say he takes money from big banks, citing a fund-raiser with the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. Mrs. Clinton denied a report about her examining a staff shake-up, but she has struggled to define the central message of her candidacy. The real question on the Republican side is who comes in second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth. After that, the field will winnow. What is certain is that the races are far from over. The Democratic primary had once seemed likely to wrap up after New Hampshire, but it is now almost certain to drag on for many weeks. Mr. Trump may not be the juggernaut he appeared to be in December, having lost Iowa, but if he wins New Hampshire, he will be very much in the quest for the nomination.  Months of town-hall-style meetings, rallies and retail stops finally wind down in New Hampshire on Tuesday. From here, the race will head to Nevada and South Carolina. But for now, we wait for the votes to be cast.   Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			