DURHAM, N.H. — Gov. John Kasich desperately needs a strong showing here, and he has done his darnedest to make it happen, crisscrossing the state to hold 96 town-hall meetings, by his count.  He has repeatedly pledged that if he gets “trounced,” he is going back to his home state of Ohio.  And yet, for a candidate whose campaign is tied to the deliberations of voters here, he is uncannily, almost incongruously, relaxed. “It’s in the hands of the people of New Hampshire. I’m not going to get manic, I’m not panicked, I’m not throwing a Hail Mary, if it doesn’t work, it doesn’t work,” said Mr. Kasich, in front of a crowd of at least 100 gathered at an inn on Wednesday. Mr. Kasich, who calls himself the “happy warrior,” comports himself at campaign events with a mellowness that he hopes will allow him to rise above the fray of a bitter campaign. He has consistently avoided directly attacking his competitors, even as he notes that some of them are attacking him, and his supporters frequently refer to him as the only “adult” in the race.  But those same appeals can sometimes seem so calm as to lack urgency, and he has sometimes purposely avoided opportunities to specify exactly what, or whom, it is from which he is differentiating himself since he rarely mentions his opponents by name.  It remains to be seen how that strategy will play out in a crowded field with the clock ticking down.  “Could he be more explicit about that?” said Fergus Cullen, a former state Republican Party chairman who recently announced his support for Mr. Kasich. Mr. Cullen then tried out a possible campaign line for Mr. Kasich: “‘Look, folks, I know there are people in this room who are thinking about Chris Christie, thinking about Marco Rubio, thinking about Jeb Bush, and here’s why I think you ought to support me over them.’ He could do that, but he’s chosen not to. At this point, I think he has to stay the course.” So on a day when Donald J. Trump said Senator Ted Cruz “stole” his win in the Iowa caucuses (Mr. Kasich, who campaigned little in Iowa, won 2 percent of the vote), and as Gov. Chris Christie found a litany of ways to call Senator Marco Rubio inexperienced, Mr. Kasich sidestepped opportunities to go negative. “I’m not interested in attacking other candidates, O.K.,” Mr. Kasich said, recounting what he had told to reporters at a breakfast that morning. Instead, here and at three other stops over the course of the day, he pivoted from topic to topic with no teleprompter or apparent narrative arc, speaking at length of balancing budgets, building consensus to achieve political goals, and the opiate crisis — New Hampshire has been hit hard by heroin addiction. Occasionally, he took sideways swipes at his opponents without naming them. “How many people think we’re going to abolish the I.R.S. And have a 10 percent flat tax? Raise your hand,” said Mr. Kasich, in a reference to proposals from Senator Ted Cruz.  No one did. “They keep saying it, and no one here believes it. I don’t get the whole thing,” Mr. Kasich said. And later, on foreign policy. “Beware of bombast. You don’t run foreign policy by yelling and screaming and threatening to do things 10 months before you’re even in office,” Mr. Kasich said. It is a demeanor that many voters have found refreshing. “The whole positive message came through pretty strongly,” said Jim Gracyzk, a retired electrical engineer who attended an event for Mr. Kasich in a smoky-smelling V.F.W. Hall in Raymond, N.H., on Tuesday. “Kasich provides some nuance to things.”  But Mr. Gracyzk, like other voters who saw Mr. Kasich on Tuesday, is also considering another candidate: Marco Rubio.  “I like Rubio’s energy,” he said. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			