The Democratic presidential candidates have asked for more debates, and it appears they are going to get their wish.  The Democratic National Committee said on Sunday that it would meet with the campaigns on Tuesday to further discuss details of additional debates before announcing an official schedule. A debate on Thursday, ahead of the New Hampshire primary on Feb. 9, is expected to be sanctioned and sponsored by MSNBC, and the campaigns have been in talks about holding additional debates in March, April and May. The previously scheduled debates on Feb. 11 and March 9 will go on as planned. “We have consistently worked with our campaigns to ensure a schedule that is both robust and allows our candidates to engage with voters in a variety of ways, whether through debates, forums or town halls, while also leaving them the flexibility to attend county fairs and living room conversations for the direct voter contact that matters so much in the early states,” Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Florida, the chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee, said in a statement. CNN announced separately on Sunday that the Democratic candidates would participate in a town-hall-style forum in Derry, N.H., on Wednesday, a day before the newly planned debate. Each of the three candidates will field questions from voters, and Anderson Cooper will moderate the three-hour event, which will begin at 8 p.m. Eastern time.  Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. A version of this article appears in print on 02/01/2016, on page A16 of the NewYork edition with the headline: More Democratic Face-Offs Are Likely as Party Leaders Meet With Campaigns. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			