Updated, 10:22 p.m. | Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina suspended his presidential campaign on Monday, saying he had concluded that “this is not my time,” while arguing that his mix of hawkishness on foreign policy and pragmatism on immigration and the economy had made a difference in the race. The withdrawal came on the last day that Mr. Graham could remove his name from the South Carolina primary ballot, sparing him possible embarrassment in his home state given his paltry standing in the polls. “The centerpiece of my campaign has been securing our nation,” Mr. Graham said in a YouTube video announcing his decision. He called the fight against the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, “a war we cannot afford to lose,” and he repeated his call to “turn back the tide of isolationism that has been rising in the Republican Party.” “Four months ago at the very first debate, I said that any candidate who did not understand that we need more troops on the ground in Iraq and Syria to defeat ISIL was not ready to be commander in chief,” he said. “At the time, no one stepped forward to join me. Today, most of my fellow candidates have come to recognize this is what’s needed to secure our homeland.” Mr. Graham’s expertise on national security seemed suited to the political climate, but his bid was hindered by his moderate positions on issues like immigration. He started his campaign with a festive rally in his hometown, Central, S.C., and often recalled growing up above a pool hall and helping to raise his sister. But he failed to gain traction amid the party’s fascination with Donald J. Trump and a younger generation of Republican senators. Despite being barred from the main stage in the Republican debates, Mr. Graham, 60, earned praise by using lighthearted wisecracks to leaven his dire pronouncements about the threat of terrorism. He could frequently be found campaigning with Senator John McCain, his close friend and political ally, in New Hampshire, where Mr. McCain, winner of the primaries there in 2000 and 2008, remains popular. Mr. Graham, a former Air Force lawyer with decades of experience in government, was one of Mr. Trump’s earliest targets, and became a cautionary tale for how aggressively Mr. Trump would counterpunch at his opponents. After Mr. Graham criticized Mr. Trump, Mr. Trump responded by reading the senator’s cellphone number out loud at a crowded campaign rally in South Carolina. Mr. Graham was quickly forced to change his number. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. A version of this article appears in print on 12/22/2015, on page A17 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Graham, Trailing in the Polls, Halts His Bid for the Presidency . 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			