In the weeks since the Dec. 2 attack in San Bernardino, Calif., Hillary Clinton has urged tolerance toward Muslims and reiterated her calls for increased gun control measures. What she has not done is speak extensively about what she would do to stop a terrorist attack in the United States. That will change on Tuesday when Mrs. Clinton presents a counterterrorism strategy specifically aimed at preventing attacks on American soil. In a speech at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis, Mrs. Clinton is expected to propose a multifaceted plan that would address the Islamic State’s recruiting methods and to call for better monitoring and vetting of people in the United States who could become radicalized.  The topic is filled with pitfalls. She must appear tougher on the Islamic State than President Obama, who has faced criticism for his response to the attacks in Paris and California, but she must also avoid turning off Democratic primary voters who view her as overly hawkish on foreign policy, or who have concerns about the government’s infringing on civil liberties in order to monitor would-be terrorism suspects.  In a speech at the Council on Foreign Relations after the Paris attack last month, Mrs. Clinton expressed support for the White House’s strategy to defeat the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, but also offered a more muscular approach, calling for a no-fly zone in some areas of Syria and for the swift dispatch of special forces to train local troops. “Our goal is not to deter or contain ISIS, but to defeat and destroy ISIS,”  Mrs. Clinton said. Mrs. Clinton has given hints about her approach to combating radicalization in the United States. At a forum on foreign policy hosted by a top donor, Haim Saban, in Washington on Dec. 4, she called the Islamic State “the most effective recruiter in the world” and implored American technology companies to block or take down militant websites, videos and encrypted communications, a call she will most likely reiterate in Tuesday’s remarks. “We need to put the great disrupters at work at disrupting ISIS,” Mrs. Clinton said of Silicon Valley companies. One of the San Bernardino suspects, Tashfeen Malik, a Pakistani immigrant, had posted on social media about her sympathies for violent jihad, but the Department of Homeland Security does not routinely monitor Facebook and other social media websites in its background check process.  Mrs. Clinton, anticipating opposition from the left wing of the Democratic Party, which views such measures as infringing on civil rights, said at the forum in Washington: “You are going to hear all the familiar complaints: ‘freedom of speech.’ ” She is also expected to call on local law enforcement agencies to work with the federal government and will praise specific efforts in the Twin Cities, a campaign official said.  Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			