Donald J. Trump is perhaps the most prolific user of Twitter in political history. But as he tries to put a stranglehold on the Republican nomination with a victory Tuesday in Indiana, he is putting up some of his own money to increase his reach on Twitter. Or, to put that in a more 140-character-friendly way: Mr. Trump is paying to promote some of his posts on Twitter. Mr. Trump’s campaign has joined Twitter’s regional ad targeting, having four of his posts  appear in the feeds of selected Twitter users in Indiana, regardless of whether they are followers of the candidate. In a sign of growing technical sophistication within the Trump campaign, the Twitter posts are being aimed at particular audiences within the state. For example, a post with a video featuring the endorsement of Bobby Knight, theformer Indiana University basketball coach, was targeted at basketball fans as identified by Twitter. Heading to rally with Bobby now! See you soon!pic.twitter.com/dWSSOEctZn — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 28, 2016  Mr. Trump also spent money to promote what might be his favorite Twitter activity, needling his opponents, as he did in one post that included a video of Carly Fiorina  Agreed! pic.twitter.com/biyldP3CIw — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 27, 2016  Those two posts, along with two others being promoted regularly in the state, have lifted Mr. Trump’s already extensive social media reach, earning him more than a half million views for those two videos in the last few days alone, according to data provided by Twitter. Mr. Cruz is opting for a slightly different targeting strategy. With a Twitter voice less pronounced than his rival’s, Mr. Cruz is letting others do the talking for him. Rather than promoting his own posts on Twitter, his campaign is paying to promote endorsement posts from Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana and Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin. My vote goes to @tedcruz because he's a conservative who will protect our constitutional liberties. https://t.co/nQI6H15cPT — Mike Pence (@mike_pence) May 2, 2016  Wrote a message to Indiana voters about why I support @TedCruz for president. https://t.co/zEbJoR4vfN pic.twitter.com/zkt7qcr1op — Scott Walker (@ScottWalker) April 30, 2016  
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			