Donald J. Trump’s rough week was followed by a rough weekend, as he suffered potentially consequential losses at party events related to precious convention delegates in two states.  Mr. Trump’s poor showing at Republican conclaves in Tennessee, a state he won, and in North Dakota in terms of accruing support emphasized a reality that he has not been able to surmount: an organization that cannot keep up with his poll numbers, speeches and support among voters. Nominations are not won by words alone, and Mr. Trump is learning that the hard way.  He says his delegates are being “stolen” in places like Tennessee and Louisiana, despite the fact that his  campaign has not engaged in the type of brinkmanship and parliamentary tactics needed to win. Mr. Trump recently hired a veteran delegate wrangler, Paul J. Manafort, but Mr. Manafort’s tenure is only beginning.  In the meantime, North Dakota’s delegates, who are not bound to any candidate, so far have little reason to bend toward Mr. Trump.  All of the delegate skirmishes were obscured by Mr. Trump’s statement to The Washington Post that the nation is on the verge of another “massive recession,” a comment major economists say is unfounded.  On the Democratic side, there were debates about debates, conflicts over how many donations from the fossil-fuel industry constitutes “a lot” and a county-by-county delegate slog in Nevada in which Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont fared well over Hillary Clinton in the Democratic primary.  Each side has accused the other of negotiating in bad faith for a New York debate, for which a range of dates and venues has been proposed.  Then there was the battle over donations to Mrs. Clinton’s campaign from people involved in the coal, oil and gas industries, which Mr. Sanders has denounced. Mrs. Clinton has said her rival is overstating those donations, a point she made with frustration when asked on a rope line at a campaign stop.  And there was the more consequential battle at the Clark County Democratic convention in Nevada. Mrs. Clinton won Clark County, the largest county in Nevada, during the state’s caucuses. But Mr. Sanders had more supporters at the county convention, meaning he could have a bigger presence from the county at the state Democratic convention in May. Mrs. Clinton maintains a wide lead in delegates, but Mr. Sanders’s backers will point to such skirmishes as evidence of why he should fight on.   That same logic is held by Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio, who, Mr. Trump said on Sunday, should drop out of the race. Soon after Mr. Trump’s wins in New Hampshire and South Carolina, some of his top advisers assured him that the fight would be over shortly. That was weeks ago. Around that time, some in Mr. Trump’s circle urged him to bring in a more-seasoned group of top operatives. If Mr. Trump loses Wisconsin to Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, as polls suggest he is on track to do, he is likely to reassess just how his campaign has served him in a variety of contests in which he was in contention, but lost.   Speaking in Green Bay, Wis., on Sunday, the Republican presidential candidate Ted Cruz promised to drive down student loan debt and protect religious liberty. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			