House Speaker Paul D. Ryan said Thursday that he is not interested in being the savior of a Republican establishment appalled by Donald J. Trump. House Speaker Paul D. Ryan on Thursday criticized Donald J. Trump for suggesting that there would be “riots” should Republicans move to nominate another presidential candidate at the party’s convention. But he flatly dismissed suggestions that he become the anti-Trump alternative. Exulting in his latest primary victories, Mr. Trump warned Tuesday that to deny him the nomination at a contested convention, as many Republican leaders hope to, would anger his supporters and lead to violence. “I think you’d have riots,” he said. Mr. Ryan said it appeared increasingly likely that the party’s gathering in Cleveland would indeed be contested, which would make it possible for Republicans to nominate someone other than whoever has the most delegates when the primary contests end in June. But he faulted Mr. Trump for raising the prospect of rioting. “Nobody should say such things in my opinion, because to even address or hint to violence is unacceptable,” Mr. Ryan told reporters at his weekly news briefing. Though he has been unsparingly critical of some of Mr. Trump’s statements — such as the suggestion that foreign Muslims be barred from entering the country — Mr. Ryan said he did not believe he would need to condemn Mr. Trump’s candidacy, expressing his faith in the electoral system. But Mr. Ryan said he would continue to speak out against assertions that violate the party’s principles. “If anybody — not just Donald Trump — if anybody is out there representing the Republican Party in ways that we believe disfigure conservatism or do not portray what our views and principles are, I as a party leader and others, I assume, as well, have an obligation to defend our principles from being distorted,” he said. “And we’re going to continue doing that.” Mr. Ryan’s comments follow a phone call between Mr. Trump and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, this week, during which Mr. McConnell said he advised that “it might be a good idea to condemn” the recent violence between protesters and his supporters at his rallies. Mr. Ryan, the Republican vice-presidential nominee in 2012 on the ticket with Mitt Romney, also sought once again to quell buzz that he might be the party’s 11th-hour presidential pick, fueled by former Speaker John A. Boehner’s suggestion on Tuesday that Mr. Ryan should become the party’s standard-bearer if none of the current candidates wins the nomination on the first ballot at the convention starting July 18. “It is not me,” Mr. Ryan said, barely letting a reporter finish his question, adding: “I saw Boehner last night, and I told him to knock it off.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. A version of this article appears in print on 03/18/2016, on page A18 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Speakeru2019s View; Ryan Criticizes Trumpu2019s Warning And Says Contested Convention Looms. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			