The three remaining Republican candidates will gather in Wisconsin for a town-hall-style event on CNN tonight, one of the final chances for voters to see them face-to-face before the state’s primary on April 5.  It’s not clear what tone they will adopt. Donald J. Trump took relatively few shots at Senator Ted Cruz of Texas on Monday, after one of the ugliest weeks on the campaign trail to date. Mr. Cruz, however, challenged Mr. Trump to a one-on-one debate as he campaigned ahead of him in Wisconsin.  Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio focused on electability as he campaigned in the state, while Mr. Trump conducted phone interviews with some of Wisconsin’s talk radio hosts. One of the hosts, Charlie Sykes, a movement conservative who has been adamantly opposed to Mr. Trump, filleted him on his show for 17 minutes.  On the Democratic side, Hillary Clinton’s campaign aides tried to point out, slightly more forcefully than they had before, that the delegate math will basically be insurmountable for Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont after April. Mr. Sanders’s aides pushed back, insisting that her wins had come because of their strategic decisions not to challenge certain states. But the reality remains that the gap in delegates between the two Democratic primary candidates is wide, while Republicans who remain opposed to Mr. Trump will hope the divide between their front-runner and his rivals will shrink. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			