Hillary Clinton on Monday reiterated her support for legislation that would allow the families of victims of terrorist attacks, such as the ones on Sept. 11, 2001, to hold foreign governments accountable in American courts, putting her on the opposite side of President Obama on a bill that is popular with New Yorkers. “I think the administration should take a hard look at them and determine whether that should be done consistent with national security,” Mrs. Clinton said of the 28 classified pages related to the Sept. 11 attacks and to Saudi Arabia that have become central to the proposed legislation. The Obama administration, in which Mrs. Clinton served and has closely aligned herself with, has lobbied Congress to block its passage, after Saudi Arabia said it would sell off hundreds of billions of dollars worth of American assets should it pass. Hoping to keep the topic focused on getting out the vote Tuesday in the New York primary, Mrs. Clinton promptly kicked the issue to Senator Chuck Schumer who campaigned with her in Queens. “But Senator Schumer has the legislation that I support,” she said. Mr. Schumer took over from there, explaining that “if Saudi Arabia were complicit in terrorism and people were killed because of it, there should be a right of the families of the victims to go to court,” he said. In interviews shown Sunday on ABC News, Mrs. Clinton and Senator Bernie Sanders said they needed additional information before commenting on the legislation. They both released statements later in the day saying they supported the bill. On Monday, Mrs. Clinton’s campaign events took her to a veritable United Nations of voters around New York City, where her campaign has left no ethnicity unturned ahead of the primary. “You know, I never count any chickens before they hatch,” Mrs. Clinton told reporters after stopping in for a bubble tea at Kung Fu Tea at Queens Crossing Food Court in Flushing, when asked if a big win on Tuesday would mean that she had locked up the nomination. “I’m not taking anybody or anything for granted.” Before she left the event, Mrs. Clinton picked up a plastic bag full of a variety of greasy, but delicious, dim sum. “I love it! I love it!” she said. Mrs. Clinton also met with Mexican immigrants at the Hi-Tek Car Wash & Lube in the Elmhurst section of Queens (Slogan: “Lube It or Lose It.”). The employees there were the first car washers to join a labor union, the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, which allowed them to win contracts that provided higher wages and job protections. Mrs. Clinton, who greeted workers with Stu Appelbaum, the president of the union, described it as a “great effort.” “I’ve campaigned at a lot of gas stations, some of which had car washes,” Mrs. Clinton said when asked if that was her first campaign stop at a car wash. “But this is special because the workers here at this car wash have been organized.” Before the tour of Queens, Mrs. Clinton greeted nurses at St. John’s Riverside Hospital in Yonkers. “I can tell you this,” she told the crowd of women gathered in the hospital cafeteria. “I will not let someone like Donald Trump or Ted Cruz say what he is saying about the people, the hardworking people, including immigrants, but everyone who works hard in New York.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. A version of this article appears in print on 04/19/2016, on page A15 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Terror Cases in U.S. Courts; Clinton Favors Call to Let Families Sue Governments in Terror Attacks. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			