The Republican establishment is finally having its moment. Up to this point, no one has had a rougher 2016 than the party’s ostensible chieftains: Its top strategists and donors have been thwarted at the ballot box, and Donald J. Trump has turned Republican congressional leaders into a punch line on the stump. But that has changed in the last few days, as Mr. Trump has struggled to make peace with Republicans in Washington – and Hillary Clinton has made an aggressive bid to win over party elders aghast at Mr. Trump’s emergence as the presumptive Republican nominee. Suddenly, these dreaded insiders are the most sought-after people in politics. Mr. Trump is headed to Washington on Thursday to huddle with Paul D. Ryan, the speaker of the House, who announced last week that he was not prepared to back Mr. Trump for president. It could take a command performance on Capitol Hill for Mr. Trump to turn around his listing candidacy, at least with the elite groups that have rounded on him since last week. His impatience in demanding their support has irked them only further: Mr. Trump huffed at a campaign stop over the weekend that Mr. Ryan was being “cute” about his endorsement. But a senior aide to Mr. Trump, Paul J. Manafort, said on Fox News that the campaign took the need for party unity seriously. (“Trump understands this,” he said.) Mr. Trump is facing serious competitive pressure from outside the party: Mrs. Clinton, implicitly turning the page on her primary against Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, has begun casting her campaign as a safe haven for anti-Trump Republicans. She told CBS over the weekend that she saw her campaign welcoming non-Democrats who had “respect for the office” of the presidency and “deep concern” about Mr. Trump’s capacity to hold the job. And the voters will get to weigh in again, too, this week: Mr. Sanders is seen as having an upper hand in the West Virginia primary, and it is worth watching whether any significant protest vote shows up against Mr. Trump there or in Nebraska’s now-ornamental Republican primary election. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			