Hillary Clinton said Sunday that the F.B.I. had not asked to interview her as part of its inquiry into her use of a personal email server as secretary of state. But Mrs. Clinton reiterated on CBS’s “Face the Nation” that she would make herself available to law enforcement officials as necessary. The investigation into Mrs. Clinton’s email practices and her handling of classified intelligence has shadowed her presidential campaign, and CNN reported last week that she was likely to be interviewed soon by the F.B.I. Mrs. Clinton said on Sunday that no meeting had been requested or scheduled. “No one has reached out to me yet,” she said, adding, “I made it clear that I’m more than ready to talk to anybody, anytime, and I’ve encouraged all of my assistants to be very forthcoming.” As she has done in the past, Mrs. Clinton said she had erred in setting up a private email server but said she “always took classified material seriously.” But Mrs. Clinton also sought to turn around the scrutiny she was facing, arguing that it was time for the Republican candidate Donald J. Trump to face similar examination. Mr. Trump, she noted, had not released his tax returns, as is customary for presidential candidates. Mr. Trump has said he is being audited and that it would be improper to release his taxes until that process is complete. That explanation, Mrs. Clinton said, “just by any analysis, doesn’t hold up.” Keeping up her campaign’s drumbeat of criticism against Mr. Trump, Mrs. Clinton said she considered Mr. Trump’s policy views — including his endorsement of torture, his description of climate science as a hoax perpetrated by China and his “cavalier” ideas about nuclear weapons — to be outlandish. Mrs. Clinton said she had received an influx of interest from Republicans in recent days, as the party’s reservations about installing Mr. Trump in the presidency sink in. “When you have former presidents, when you have high-ranking Republican officials in Congress raising questions about their nominee,,” she said, “I don’t think it’s personal so much as rooted in their respect for the office and their deep concern about what kind of leader he would be.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			