Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont has talked about his liberal policy positions for more than 30 years on television. He has far less experience using high-profile interviews to deliver the perfect pithy sound bite in which he attacks an opponent without coming across as overly negative. Take his appearance Monday night on MSNBC’s “The Rachel Maddow Show,” where Mr. Sanders faced questions about his chief rival for the 2016 Democratic presidential nomination, Hillary Rodham Clinton. He was more muddled than memorable in his criticisms of Mrs. Clinton — though a bit better than he was earlier on Monday on “The View,” when he largely sidestepped questions about her. On MSNBC, Mr. Sanders asked viewers to decide which candidate “historically has had the guts” to challenge powerful people, without making a searing case against Mrs. Clinton’s connections to wealthy and corporate interests. He knocked her on gay rights in a roundabout way. And he said that his recent hiring of a pollster would not change his political message, but would rather “prepare” his campaign for negative commercials in the future. (Whether he was saying his own campaign might run negative ads in the future was unclear; his advisers have said that they aren’t preparing negative ads themselves, but rather plan to do polling to prepare for lines of attacks that might be used against him.) Television interviews are critical for Mr. Sanders as he tries to increase his national profile to try to match his popularity in the early voting states of Iowa and New Hampshire. But now that he is going head-to-head against Mrs. Clinton — given that Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. announced last week that he was not running, and former Gov. Martin O’Malley of Maryland is struggling to gain traction — Mr. Sanders will be given more and more opportunities to draw sharp contrasts from her.  While Mr. Sanders doesn’t want to sound harsh, he is taking a risk in not being more pointed in his comments about her — because indirect jabs at Mrs. Clinton aren’t going to do much damage to her solid lead in many polls. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			