Former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida made his offensive against Donald J. Trump more personal on Wednesday, highlighting his fear of germs as another reason that Republicans should reconsider their summer fling with the billionaire tycoon. “Would you rather support a candidate who strives to shake every hand everywhere or is a ‘germaphobe’ when it comes to shaking hands,” Mr. Bush’s campaign asked in an online quiz intended to demonstrate Mr. Trump’s liberal views. Mr. Trump’s preference for keeping his hands clean has been well chronicled. He has called the ritual of shaking hands “barbaric” and he wrote in “The Art of the Comeback,” his 1997 book: “I happen to be a clean hands freak. I feel much better after I thoroughly wash my hands, which I do as much as possible.” For Mr. Bush, the jab marks his latest attempt to hit back against Mr. Trump’s constant heckling and suggestion that he “lacks energy.” On Tuesday, the Republican from Florida released an attack ad compiling clips of Mr. Trump expressing Democratic policy positions. By JONATHAN MARTIN As Mr. Trump turns the primary into a tabloid-style clash of personalities, Mr. Bush is stuck in a race that embodies what he likes least about politics. Mr. Trump responded on Wednesday morning, telling ABC that Mr. Bush needed to try a new approach because he has been falling in the polls. “I think he had no choice,” Mr. Trump said. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			