A national poll released Thursday gives more confirmation that Ben Carson has developed a head of steam in the Republican field, showing that only Mr. Carson, the retired brain surgeon, outperforms Donald J. Trump in a head-to-head matchup. Republicans and Republican-leaning likely voters preferred Mr. Carson 55 percent, compared with 36 percent for Mr. Trump, according to the Monmouth University Poll.  “The fact that the only one who can challenge Trump is the only other candidate who has never held or run for elected office speaks volumes to the low regard G.O.P. voters have for the establishment,” Patrick Murray, director of the Monmouth University Polling Institute, said in a statement. The poll found Mr. Trump’s overall support still highest when matched against the full Republican field. It rose four percentage points, to 30 percent, since an earlier Monmouth poll before the first debate in early August. Mr. Carson was in second place in the field, with 18 percent support. Jeb Bush dropped to third since August, with 8 percent, and Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin slid to eighth place with 3 percent. Carly Fiorina, the former Hewlett-Packard executive, doubled her support to 4 percent. The Monmouth poll is one that CNN will use to determine if Mrs. Fiorina is included in the top-tier debate of Republican candidates in its Sept. 16 debate. She tied for 6th place in the poll, good enough to make the cut.  Mr. Trump continued to lead all rivals among different Republican demographic groups.  He was preferred by very conservative voters as well as moderate to liberal ones. He led with Tea Party supporters, with men and with women.  Other findings: Gov. John Kasich of Ohio has seen little movement in his national support since he squeaked onto the main debate stage last month in Cleveland.  And Mr. Bush’s favorability has slipped to 41 percent from 52 percent last month. The poll was conducted by telephone from Aug. 31 to Sept. 2 and has a margin of error of plus or minus five percentage points. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			