Donald J. Trump‘s views on immigration have drawn bipartisan condemnation but his surprisingly strong poll numbers are evidence that he is touching a nerve with a subset of the Republican party. The voice of that support can be heard loudly clearly onÂ conservative radio and through commentators such as Rush Limbaugh and Ann Coulter. Mr. Limbaugh has devoted substantial air time to Mr. Trump in recent days, praising him for refusing to apologize for calling Mexican immigrants rapists and criminal despite widespread protest. “Most people would have buckled long ago,” Mr. Limbaugh said on his radio show this week. “Most people would have cried uncle and begged forgiveness of the new totalitarians long ago. I have an incredible amount of admiration and respect for just this aspect of what Trump has done.” Mr. Trump’s views appear to resonate with at least some of Mr. Limbaugh’s audience. One caller said that the billionaire businessman’s views have made him a supporter. “But I heard his speech in which he talked about the illegals and there being criminals and murderers and I told my wife right then, ‘What he’s saying is what everybody I work with believes,’ ” said Chester from San Diego. “I’d vote for him right now.” Ann Coulter told Laura Ingraham on her radio show on Wednesday that Republicans were being unfair by ganging up on Mr. Trump. “He is really striking a chord, and I think all these Republican politicians who came out and attacked him are going to have to take it back,” Ms. Coulter said. While Change.org petitions have been instrumental in pressuring companies to sever their business ties with Mr. Trump, he also has his share of supporters. A spokesman for Change.org said that about 15 percent of the Trump-related petitions on its website back him, the most popular being “Support Donald Trump Against Illegal Immigration.” Mr. Trump’s Facebook page is also proving to be fertile ground forÂ support, with his posts gathering thousands of comments from people cheering him on. “It’s about time someone tells it like it is!” wrote Maggie Haren. “The libs hate this because the Obama Sheeple are not supposed to be hearing this stuff.” Mr. Trump, who said that he has a good relationship with Mexicans despite his inflammatory remarks, even appears to have the backing ofÂ some immigrants. “I’m a legal Mexican living here in the U.S. I’m a college student in Chicago,” wrote Arturo Chavez. “I like your honesty. Mr. Trump let’s make American great again, but not everyone is criminal and rapists.” Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			