Hillary Rodham Clinton is showing some signs of weakness against potential Republican rivals in three swing states, according to a poll from Quinnipiac University that could raise concern within the Democrat’s campaign. The survey found that Mrs. Clinton is lagging behind Senator Marco Rubio, Gov. Scott Walker and former Gov. Jeb Bush in head-to-head matchups in Iowa, Colorado and Virginia, three swing states. Her favorability ratings have declined and voters are increasingly questioning her leadership abilities. “She has lost ground in the horse race and on key questions about her honesty and leadership,” Peter A. Brown, assistant director of the Quinnipiac University Poll, said in a statement. Mrs. Clinton performed better in a similar poll in April, suggesting that months of controversy of her use of a private email account and donations the Clinton Foundation might have taken a toll on her popularity. But the survey does appear to contradict national polls that show Mrs. Clinton outpacing her Republican counterparts. Quinnipiac finds that Donald J. Trump, the Republican business mogul who has been surging in many polls, is “perhaps the biggest loser.” He is viewed negatively by a margin of 2 to 1 in all three states. There was also some good news in the poll numbers for Senator Bernie Sanders, Mrs. Clinton’s rival for the Democratic nomination. The independent from Vermont was performing as well or better than Mrs. Clinton against Republicans, meaning that the former secretary of state could be facing stiff competition on both fronts. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.; Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			