LAS VEGAS – In the great American western, two cowboys ride into a town full of bad hombres, clean up the place, then ride off together into the sunset. Of course, the cowboys are usually riding horses with saddles, not the black leather seats of a presidential limousine. And the men are usually wearing chaps, not the dark suits common in the halls of power in Washington. But this is Las Vegas, and rules can get a little bent here. At a Democratic Party fund-raiser Monday night, President Obama likened himself and the Senate minority leader, Harry Reid, a Democrat from Nevada, to the heroes of old. “Harry and I drove over here together,” Mr. Obama said of the short trip from a speech the president delivered at the Mandalay Bay hotel ballroom at the National Clean Energy Summit, to a fund-raiser with about 100 people at the home of Brian and Myra Greenspun. “And we were doing a little reminiscing and figuring out how we were going to deal with the crazies in terms of managing some problems.” Might Wyatt Earp, the storied lawman, have said something similar about his time riding with Doc Holliday? “And then we talked about riding off into the sunset together,” Mr. Obama said. Mr. Reid has announced he will not seek re-election in 2016, and Mr. Obama will leave office soon thereafter. In westerns, of course, the friends give each other credit for all they achieved together. Like the Lone Ranger and Tonto. “Everything I’ve accomplished I’ve accomplished because Harry Reid was there by my side,” Mr. Obama said. “And I’m grateful for his friendship and his strength.” Mr. Reid recently announced his support for the Iran nuclear deal, a crucial priority for Mr. Obama. “Because the thing about Harry,” Mr. Obama continued at the fund-raiser, “is he’s a great politician, but he’s also a man with a lot of backbone.” 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			