Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, sidestepped questions on Monday about whether President Obama wants Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. to enter the 2016 presidential race. How awkward would it be for President Obama and the White House if Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. challenged Hillary Rodham Clinton for the Democratic nomination?   Exhibit A: Monday’s exchange between Josh Earnest, the president’s press secretary, and reporters on whom Mr. Obama would support, Mr. Biden or Mrs. Clinton, if the vice president enters the race. In offering praise for the vice president, Mr. Earnest noted that Mr. Obama had said in the past that adding Mr. Biden “to the ticket as his running mate was the smartest decision that he had ever made in politics.” Jon Karl of ABC quickly pounced, noting that the statement must mean the president would support Mr. Biden if he decided to run. “I mean, this is obviously a better decision than the secretary of state he chose, so. You said it was his best — the best decision he made.” “Yeah, it was. It was,” Mr. Earnest said, though he quickly added that “the president has spoke at quite some length about the appreciation, respect and admiration he has for the service of Secretary Clinton.” The Republican National Committee took only moments to leap at the chance to point out the awkwardness, saying “Ouch!” after quoting Mr. Earnest acknowledging that the vice presidential decision was a “better” one than the secretary of state decision. (Though the G.O.P. conveniently left out the part where Mr. Earnest praised Mrs. Clinton.) The one thing Mr. Earnest did not do at the briefing? Put a definitive end to speculation that Mr. Obama might eventually pick sides in the Democratic contest. “I wouldn’t rule out an endorsement,” he said. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. A version of this article appears in print on 08/25/2015, on page A12 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Possible Run by Biden Puts Obama on Spot. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			