Hillary Clinton is building on her lead over Senator Bernie Sanders in Iowa, according to a new poll that shows the former secretary of state gaining momentum less than two months before the state’s caucuses. A survey released on Monday by The Des Moines Register and Bloomberg Politics found that 48 percent of Democrats who expect to caucus next year support Mrs. Clinton, while 39 percent back Mr. Sanders and 4 percent are for Martin O’Malley, the former governor of Maryland.  Mrs. Clinton has widened her lead over Mr. Sanders since October, when she was beating the Vermont senator by a margin of 42 to 37 percent. That poll included Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. as a potential presidential candidate, but much of his support shifted to Mrs. Clinton when Mr. Biden opted not to run. Mr. Sanders has been leading Mrs. Clinton in some New Hampshire polls, but she has a commanding advantage in Iowa and across much of the country. Strong debate performances and fresh fears about terrorism have played to her advantage.  Iowans surveyed said that Mrs. Clinton was most qualified for the presidency, would work best with Congress and had the best temperament for the job, according to the poll. Mr. Sanders was viewed as being best suited to fight for the middle class and regulate Wall Street and was viewed as being the most honest of the Democratic candidates.  The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus five percentage points.  Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			