Updated, 6:03 p.m. |  Donald J. Trump has been under fire for insisting that Muslims in New Jersey were cheering when the World Trade Center fell on Sept. 11, 2001 — a claim that has been difficult to corroborate. But on Monday, one of Mr. Trump’s chief rivals for the Republican presidential nomination said that he, too, saw American Muslims celebrate as the twin towers fell. “I saw the film of it,” Ben Carson, the retired neurosurgeon who is running close to Mr. Trump in many polls, said. But later on Monday, Mr. Carson said that he was mistaken in saying that he saw Muslims cheering in New Jersey. According to ABC News he said he was thinking about protests he saw in the Middle East. Accounts of such behavior in the United States have largely been considered folklore in the years since the attacks, and New Jersey lawmakers and officials say they cannot remember such celebrations occurring. Mr. Trump said that he recalled seeing it happen on television, and on Monday he distributed a Washington Post article from 2001 that reported that “a number of people” in Jersey City were detained after the attacks for allegedly holding tailgate parties on roofs to watch the devastation. In his original remarks Monday, Mr. Carson said that he also remembered seeing such scenes on the news, but that such behavior should not be held against all Muslims. “There are going to be people who respond inappropriately to virtually everything,” Mr. Carson said. “I think that was an inappropriate response. I don’t know if, on the basis of that, you can say all Muslims are bad people. I really think that would be a stretch.” WATCH: @RealBenCarson tells ABC he saw news footage of Muslims in New Jersey cheering as towers fell on 9/11:
https://t.co/DJCSJdZxXS — ABC News Politics (@ABCPolitics) November 23, 2015    Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			