The terrorist attacks in Paris last week have renewed criticism of President Obama for his strategy in fighting the Islamic State. But a New York Times/CBS News poll released just before the attacks found that Americans were already unhappy with the president’s approach to the radical Islamist group, also known as ISIS or ISIL. Among a series of issues tested in last week’s nationwide poll, Mr. Obama’s handling of the threat from ISIS militants in Iraq and Syria earned him the lowest marks from the public. Over all, just 31 percent of Americans said they approved of the president’s actions in combating the Islamic State.  The survey also found that nearly three-quarters of Americans (including 63 percent of Democrats and 83 percent of Republicans) thought things were going badly for the United States in its fight against the militants before the attacks Friday in Paris. The president’s overall job approval rating stood at 45 percent, with 48 percent disapproving; 44 percent approved of his handling of the economy, while 51 percent disapproved; and his handling of foreign policy was similar to the ISIS numbers – 33 percent approval, 52 percent disapproval.  At least three in five Democrats expressed approval for the president in all three of these measures, but just 54 percent approved of the ISIS strategy – indicating an area of significant weakness for Mr. Obama.   Yet he has a ways to go before approaching his predecessor’s low marks heading into the last year of his administration. In late 2007, George W. Bush’s overall approval rating was just 28 percent, with 65 percent disapproval.    For his part, Mr. Obama is standing by his strategy to “degrade and destroy” the Islamic State. Yet, last week’s poll suggests that he has a lot of work to do if he is going to convince the public that he is taking adequate steps to achieve his goals.  At a news conference in Turkey on Monday, Mr. Obama asserted, “We have the right strategy, and we’re going to see it through.” The telephone poll was conducted Nov. 6-10 on cellphones and landlines with 1,495 adults, and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.  Megan Thee-Brenan is a member of The Times’s news surveys department. This is one of an occasional series of posts taking a deeper look at polling during this campaign cycle.
 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			