When he was handed the chairman’s gavel of the Senate Armed Services Committee this year, Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, said changes to the way the Pentagon spent its money and to its overall structure would be his top priorities. Last month, Mr. McCain began a large-scale congressional review of the way the military is organized in light of new threats, technology and a shrinking budget. On Tuesday, that review will have one of its more publicly interesting moments when he oversees a major hearing to look at the legislation that grew out of the military’s last major reorganization a generation ago. That legislation, the Goldwater-Nichols Act, made major changes to the way the military operates after the tragic failure of the Iran hostage rescue mission in 1980 and the invasion of Grenada. The legislation moved to redefine the roles and missions of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the military services, and the combatant commanders to root out internal rivalries and other structural problems, all things Mr. McCain says need to be revisited in light of changing global circumstances and persistent problems with Pentagon decision making and resource management. James R. Locher III, who was a primary architect of the Goldwater-Nichols Act, signed by President Ronald Reagan, is expected to testify that the legislation must be reviewed. “One indication of the massive frustration generated by the current system is that most military officers lament being assigned to the Pentagon,” his testimony reads. Follow the New York Times Politics and Washington on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			