Hit Broadway shows have their share of repeat visitors, but it’s rare that those visitors are residents of the White House. President Obama, who saw a Broadway preview of “Hamilton” on July 18, is planning to see it again, on Nov. 2, for a Democratic Party fund-raiser. Michelle Obama attended a matinee last weekend — her second time at the show, after seeing it Off Broadway at the Public Theater this year. The Democratic National Committee is paying the costs of the special Monday night performance — a night when Broadway is ordinarily dark — and is raising money by selling seats to the show for up to $5,000 apiece. The event will benefit the Democratic Hope Fund, which raises money to help retire Mr. Obama’s campaign debt, as well as the national committee. The event is being organized by Margo Lion, a longtime Obama supporter who is a Broadway producer and an investor in “Hamilton.” Ms. Lion organized Broadway fund-raisers in 2007 and 2012 for Mr. Obama’s presidential campaigns. “The founding of America seems to be an appropriate subject, and we’re just thrilled that we could do this,” Ms. Lion said. The Obamas played a small but memorable role in the development of the play, which is a musical about the life of Alexander Hamilton, the nation’s first treasury secretary. Lin-Manuel Miranda, the show’s creator and star, performed an early version of what became the show’s opening number at a White House poetry jam in 2009; the audience included the Obamas. Jeffrey Seller, the lead producer of “Hamilton,” said, “We’re both honored and enthusiastic that the president wishes to come back to our shows.” Mr. Seller is an Obama supporter, and said he gave the maximum allowable contribution to both of the president’s campaigns. Mr. Seller said the special performance was not a donation but rather a group purchase of a block of tickets — in fact, he said, the national committee paid a premium for the tickets because the show needs to pay actors more for the additional performance. He said other organizations had bought large amounts of tickets to the show for fund-raising purposes; for example, he said, Wesleyan University, which is the alma mater of Mr. Miranda and of Thomas Kail, the show’s director, had bought all the seats to Friday night’s performance. The D.N.C. said it had no comment on the event; a White House spokesman confirmed that Mr. Obama would travel to New York for a political event on Nov. 2. Nicholas Confessore contributed reporting. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter.   A version of this article appears in print on 10/05/2015, on page C3 of the NewYork edition with the headline: Obama to See u2018Hamiltonu2019 Again to Help Democrats. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			