Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey has surged to second place in New Hampshire, according to a new poll that shows his persistence there starting to pay off. But Donald J. Trump remains firmly in the lead in the state, despite his provocative policies on Muslims. A WBUR poll released on Friday showed Mr. Christie’s support in the Granite State more than doubling to 11 percent, placing him in a three-way tie for second place with Senators Marco Rubio of Florida and Ted Cruz of Texas. And Mr. Trump sits in his strongest position to date in the state, with 27 percent of Republican voters ready to back him in the country’s first primary contest next year. The poll, which has a margin of error of plus or minus 5 percentage points, was conducted across three nights this week. The first night of interviews came before Mr. Trump’s proposal and rest were conducted after his announcement. “People keep looking for a decline in his numbers after things that he says and there’s been no evidence that he has crossed the line that his own voters have drawn, if they have drawn a line,” said Steve Koczela, president of the MassINC Polling Group, which conducted the survey. Mr. Christie has been dedicating significant time to New Hampshire and it has been paying off in endorsements and a stronger performance in the polls. However, his ascendance complicates matters for the more experienced candidates who are trying to topple Mr. Trump by further fracturing their support. Mr. Rubio is the most popular second choice, suggesting that he stands to benefit once the field starts to consolidate. “The field of second-tier candidates has been pretty unsettled,” Mr. Koczela said, noting that Ben Carson and Carly Fiorina have collapsed in the state, while Jeb Bush and Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio remain stuck in place. New Hampshire voters are increasingly concerned about the threat of terrorism and are open to measures to restrict access to guns, according to the poll, and they remain attracted to political outsiders. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			