Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont will meet today with black pastors and leaders in Baltimore, and will tour the neighborhood where the death of a young black man in police custody this year sparked riots. Mr. Sanders will visit the Sandtown-Winchester neighborhood, where Freddie Gray was arrested on April 19 and put in the back of a police van where he sustained injuries in transit that he would die from. The unrest after his death turned into destructive protests that lasted over two weeks and prompted a state of emergency to be declared.  After touring the neighborhood, Mr. Sanders will attend an “Ecumenical Roundtable Discussion” at the Freddie Gray Empowerment Center, where faith leaders and social justice advocates will discuss police tactics, economic inequality and other issues that affect African-Americans. In a statement, the Sanders campaign said the event would highlight his “position on issues pertaining to aggressive policing, mass incarceration, racial profiling, housing, economic development and education.” In August, Mr. Sanders faced criticism and protests from the Black Lives Matter movement, and at a rally in Seattle, protesters took the stage and microphone as Mr. Sanders stood silently nearby.  “The biggest grass-roots movement in this country right now is Black Lives Matter,” one of the activists said at the rally. Organizers canceled the Seattle event midway through, and Mr. Sanders never spoke.  Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			