Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, arguing that the United States is “at war with radical Islam,” sharply criticized Hillary Rodham Clinton for declining to characterize the perpetrators of the Paris attacks in that way, invoking Nazi Germany to make his point. “That would be like saying we weren’t at war with Nazis, because we were afraid to offend some Germans who may have been members of the Nazi Party but weren’t violent themselves,” Mr. Rubio said Sunday on ABC’s “This Week.” At the Democratic debate on Saturday night, Mrs. Clinton said she was wary of “painting with too broad a brush” while describing Muslims and terrorism. “I don’t think we’re at war with all Muslims,” she said. “I think we’re at war with jihadists. We are at war with violent extremism. We are at war with people who use their religion for purposes of power and oppression.” Republican presidential candidates have repeatedly condemned Democrats like Mrs. Clinton for their reluctance to use the term “radical Islam” in describing how they would respond to the violence wrought by ISIS. “As Hillary Clinton said last night, we are at war with radical jihadist terrorism, not an entire religion,” Brian Fallon, a Clinton campaign spokesman, said in an email Sunday. “The Republicans are focused on a phrase because they have no real strategy to confront the terrorist threat we face.” Mr. Rubio on Sunday also called for the invocation of Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty, which declares an attack on one member of NATO as an attack on all. He demurred when asked about the prospect of placing American troops on the ground. “I think it’s premature to say the exact numbers,” he said, though he called for an increase in the number of “special operators on the ground.” 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			