Donald J. Trump has boasted that running for president is cheap for him, but in recent days the costs have been creeping up. Univision and NBC Universal already severed ties with him, and Macy’s on Wednesday announced it was phasing out his fashion line and ending its relationship with him. Mr. Trump has stood by his remarks that those Mexicans sneaking across the border are rapists and criminals, arguing that his critics are trying to avoid the issue of immigration. But companies are not having it, and more backlash could be on the way. Petitions created on Change.org and MoveOn.org are putting pressure on more businesses to distance themselves from Mr. Trump and gathering more signatures to punish other parts of his real estate and business empire. One petition with more than 70 supporters is calling on the P.G.A. of America to end its relationship with Mr. Trump’s golf courses and the Cadillac Championship, which is held at the Trump National Doral in Florida. “He needs to be shown that his behavior belongs to another century,” wrote Kevin Wynn in his petition. “Golfers like me look up to the P.G.A. and thus follow, support, view and attend your golf events, and would like to continue to do so.” Another petition calls on Amazon, the online retail giant, to stop sales of all of Mr. Trump’s 16 books. “For a man that prides himself on making good business deals, who wrote the book ‘The Art of the Deal,’ he sure doesn’t know how to deal with an America that has evolved to no longer accept vitriol like that spoken at his campaign announcement,” wrote Julian Gomez on a petition that has nearly 700 signatures. Last week Amazon responded to consumer complaints and stopped selling the Confederate flag after the massacre at a church in Charleston, S.C. Politicians are also under pressure to stay away from Mr. Trump. Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York is being called upon to cancel the city’s contract for a golf course in Ferry Point in the Bronx because of Mr. Trump’s remarks. “Taxes paid by the very Mexican-American community which Trump insulted funded his luxurious golf course that is out of the reach for most Bronxites,” wrote Ed Conde, who filed a petition asking the city to cancel the Ferry Point contract. The petition has attracted more than 1,200 supporters. It remains to be seen if more companies will look to disassociate themselves from Mr. Trump, but running for president is likely to be more expensive than he anticipated. Follow the New York Times Politics and Washington on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the First Draft politics newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			