Senator Elizabeth Warren took the Department of Education to task on Wednesday for what she called a lack of transparency and failure to protect students from dangerous student loan servicers and for-profit colleges. Ms. Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat, called for external checks to be placed on the department, including moving the student loan complaint system from the department to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and granting borrowers the right to take legal action against loan contractors. “We don’t trust a bank to handle its own complaints, and we shouldn’t trust the federal student loan program to do it either,” Ms. Warren said. The sharp-tongued remarks came as part of a broad-ranging policy speech on education at the American Federation of Teachers in Washington, where Ms. Warren laid out a plan for making college more affordable and relieving growing student debt. In doing so, Ms. Warren did not limit her criticism to the Education Department, assigning blame to colleges and universities, as well as to state governments. She also renewed calls to refinance outstanding student loans and reform the federal Pell grant program. Ms. Warren saved her sharpest words for the Education Department, though. “Changes to make the federal higher education rules work better won’t matter if the Department of Education won’t enforce them,” she said.  Ms. Warren pointed to the case of Corinthian Colleges, a for-profit company that filed for bankruptcy in May, leaving tens of thousands saddled with debt. Though she praised a move Monday by Education Secretary Arne Duncan to forgive federal loans for students from Corinthian, she said that the department should have acted earlier and gone further in holding the company’s executives responsible. College affordability and student debt has become a leading topic for both Democrats and Republicans on the presidential campaign trail in recent weeks. Ms. Warren did not mention the campaign in her speech. She did call for bipartisan collaboration on the issue ahead of the debate over the Higher Education Act, which expired in 2013. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			