When Jeb Bush and Hillary Rodham Clinton announced their presidential candidacies this year, they released gauzy videos showing voters who either agreed with their policy platforms, or whose lives had been affected by them.  But the initial 2016 campaign video unveiled on Sunday by Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, focuses on one life: His own.  In a two-minute video released by his aides before his official campaign kickoff on Tuesday, Mr. Christie talks about why he is the “blunt” figure who has been criticized for telling off teachers at town hall meetings.  “I get accused a lot of times of being too blunt and too direct and saying what’s on my mind just a little too loudly,” Mr. Christie says in the video, which finds him addressing the audience in one of his favored town hall-style meetings. “I have an Irish father and I had a Sicilian mother,” he says as explanation.  His mother, he said, “set the tone” at home.  The video, titled “Telling It Like It Is,” which is expected to be Mr. Christie’s slogan, affirms a basic fact about his candidacy: It will be built first and foremost on selling his personal style. There is no mention in the video of policy; Mr. Christie is at odds with some of the most conservative voters over an array of positions.  There also is no mention of his record as governor of his state, which has seen a record number of credit downgrades under Mr. Christie’s tenure, and has lingering pension problems.  Instead, Mr. Christie uses the video to talk about how his interactions with his mother made him who he is, and that a pivotal moment with her as she lay dying “affirmed for me forever that I’m going to be this way.” 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			