If you were absent from work a third of the time, you’d probably be fired. But among the many perks of being a United States senator is that you are your own boss and can set your own schedule. Nobody knows this better than the five senators running for president.  On average, senators miss about 3 percent of their votes, or have an attendance rate of 97 percent. But Senator Marco Rubio, the Florida Republican, has a 70 percent attendance rate this year, meaning that for the 30 percent of the days he was out, he missed 69 votes. Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, another Republican, isn’t very far behind, with 55 missed votes, or 77 percent attendance. Both senators have been on fund-raising binges in the weeks since they announced their presidential campaigns, trying to rake in as much as possible before the June 30 deadline that marked the end of the second quarter.  But their colleague, Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, has managed to miss just three votes, giving him a 99 percent attendance record. Mr. Paul must factor in one thing that Mr. Rubio and Mr. Cruz do not: He is asking Kentuckians to re-elect him as senator this year while at the same time running for president. Mr. Rubio has decided not to seek re-election, while Mr. Cruz’s term ends in 2018.   Mr. Paul’s record is about the same as Senator Bernie Sanders, the independent of Vermont, who is running for the Democratic nomination and has missed six votes so far this year. The fifth senator seeking the White House, Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, has missed 45 votes. This would not be the first recent election when senators have had to juggle their day jobs with their presidential campaigns. And in 2007, the truancy rate for Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama were similar. Mrs. Clinton voted 77 percent of the time; Mr. Obama 62 percent of the time. Find out what you need to know about the 2016 presidential race today, and get politics news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the First Draft newsletter. 
		First Draft provides fast-paced and comprehensive coverage of politics and elections by The New York Times. Come back throughout the day for the latest news and analysis, and be part of the political conversation.
		 
Like it? Hate it? Have a tip for us? Send any and all feedback to firstdraft@nytimes.com.
         
			We send out a newsletter around 7 a.m. eastern time each weekday that serves as a look-ahead to the day's political events and expected stories.
			