Advertisement  BASKETBALL Rockets Hold Off Bulls Hakeem Olajuwon had 24 points and 11 rebounds and blocked Michael Jordan's last-second 3-point attempt as the Houston Rockets held on to defeat the Chicago Bulls, 105-102, last night in Houston. The loss was the second in succession for the Bulls and only the seventh in 44 games. It also was the Bulls' fourth consecutive defeat at the Summit. Vernon Maxwell, fined $7,500 and suspended for a game because of his conduct in Chicago's 114-100 victory over Houston Saturday night, finished with 23 points. (AP) Lakers 106, Nuggets 96: Byron Scott scored 28 points, including a controversial 3-point goal with 1:33 left, and the Lakers won their fourth consecutive game, this time over host Denver. Scott's 3-pointer was protested by Reggie Williams, who said Scott released it after the 24-second clock expired. Replays confirmed the error. (AP) Cavaliers 115, Magic 98: Larry Nance scored a season-high 33 points, making eight successive floor shots in one stretch, and also grabbed 13 rebounds as Cleveland beat Orlando in Richfield, Ohio. (AP) HORSE RACING Smith Rides 6 Winners  Mike Smith, who rode six winners at Aqueduct Jan. 13, duplicated the feat there yesterday, guiding six of his seven mounts to the winner's circle. Smith rode both halves of the early daily double -- Dressed Shipper ($6.60) and Eenie Mennie Miney ($6.20) -- then scored four straight times, in the fifth on Triple Sox ($11.20), the sixth on Miss Mimsi ($16.20), the seventh on Bomb Stopper ($7.20) and the eighth on Nines Wild ($7.40). He was third on his only other mount, Six for the Road, in the fourth race. (AP) HOCKEY  Flyers Down North Stars  Garry Galley's first goal as a Flyer broke a 3-3 tie and Mark Howe scored two goals as Philadelphia defeated the Minnesota North Stars, 5-3, last night in Philadelphia. (AP) Bruins 3, Flames 1: Vladimir Ruzicka and Steve Leach each scored in the first period to help Boston to the home victory. It was the Bruins' eighth victory in 10 games. (AP) GOLF  Daniel Shares Lead  Beth Daniel shot a first-round six-under-par 66 yesterday for a share of the lead of the weather-plagued Oldsmobile L.P.G.A. Classic in Lake Worth, Fla. The women's first tournament of the year, at Wycliffe Golf and Country Club, was delayed for 2 hours 15 minutes because of heavy fog, resulting in an incomplete first round. Daniel (34-32), who is tied with the Swedish rookie Helen Alfredsson (31-35), was one of 90 golfers in the 144-player field to complete their opening round. Nancy Lopez, playing in her first tournament since August, grabbed a late-afternoon piece of first place, before bogeying No. 8 (her 17th and final hole) to come in at five under, before play was suspended. (AP) Richardson Takes Lead  Steven Richardson of England tied the course record with a nine-under-par 63 -- nine birdies and nine pars -- yesterday in the opening round and took a two-stroke lead in the Johnnie Walker Classic in Bangkok, Thailand. Seve Ballesteros of Spain and Mats Lanner of Sweden were tied for second, while Ian Palmer of South Africa and Adam Hunter of Scotland were another stroke back at 66. Bernhard Langer was among eight golfers at 67. Ian Woosnam of Wales and the defending champion, Nick Faldo, both shot 71. Woosnam suffered from stomach distress midway through his round but carried on after a brief rest. Later, he went to a hospital, where his problem was diagnosed as food poisoning. Woosnam was released after three hours and said he hoped to play in the second round. (AP) TENNIS Capriati Beaten in Tokyo  Magdalena Maleeva upset fourth-seeded Jennifer Capriati, 6-1, 6-2, yesterday in the Pan Pacific Open in Tokyo for her first victory against a top 10 player. Sixth-seeded Lori McNeil was another upset victim, losing to a fellow American, Pam Shriver, 6-4, 6-1. Top-seeded Gabriela Sabatini defeated a qualifier, Mana Endo, 6-2, 7-5, and advanced to the quarterfinals. At 16 years old, Maleeva is the youngest of the three tennis-playing sisters from Bulgaria. She is ranked 33d in the world. Capriati, 15, is ranked sixth. (AP) We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 31, 1992, on Page B00010 of the National edition with the headline: RESULTS PLUS.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »