Advertisement By HARVEY ARATON NO one has ever used the clock better than Magic Johnson. No one has ever been as resourceful in getting his point across, given the constraints of a 24-second possession. Running the fast break or directing the half-court offense or just backing in with the ball for the hook shot he learned by mimicking Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Johnson was the most improvisational talent the National Basketball Association had ever seen. The true beauty of Magic Johnson was not how fast he ran, how high he jumped, how spectacularly he passed, how accurately he shot, how much he smiled. It was how well and quickly he thought, for himself and for his team, as he did when he made one of his most brilliant passes, a slow bouncer to no one that drained the final seconds of a playoff series against Portland last spring. With all due respect, Pat Riley was the second-best coach the Los Angeles Lakers have had. People have marveled at Johnson's ability to receive the final positive test results for the AIDS virus last Wednesday and deliver it to the world 24 hours later. Those who have watched Johnson make decisions for more than a decade easily understood how this was possible, how it would have been completely against his nature to shrink from a choice on whether to go forward. If there was a situation that needed to be sized up, then Magic Johnson was the man for the job. "It wasn't just on the court," said Josh Rosenfeld, the Lakers' public relations director until he accepted a similar position with the N.B.A. in 1990. "When we'd hold our preseason scrimmage, we'd have an autograph session and Earvin would tell all the players where to sit, just to make sure none of the fringe guys would wind up off by themselves. When we'd have a meeting before his charity game every summer, he'd say, 'O.K., what are we doing for public relations? For marketing? Ticket sales?' You'd better have an answer, too." Advertisement Then there was the night three years ago when the Lakers came to Madison Square Garden during Abdul-Jabbar's retirement tour. As the ceremony was about to conclude with the center's introduction, there was Johnson literally moving teammates into a reception line in front of the bench. Advertisement It has never been a chore to know where Magic Johnson, an extrovert right down to his toes, ever stood. It won't be now. He has said that he wants to help turn the spotlight on AIDS, an offer welcomed by AIDS activists, the public, the news media and, last if not least, the politicians. But he also said that he planned to continue "bugging" the basketball world, that he intended to stay on with the Lakers, the N.B.A. and the Olympic team, and that he hoped the companies whose products he endorsed would stand by him.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Not surprisingly, his plans, beyond his campaigning for AIDS education, have been met with ominously vague support. It will be interesting to watch in the months ahead how the players, besides those close to Johnson, are going to respond. How long will they want to deal with this? How will the league hold up to this test of humanity? When does Johnson become a wrench in its conservative marketing machine? The companies Johnson represents, reacting to the outpouring of affection and support for Johnson, have said they certainly would not be ending their affiliations with him. But they also haven't stated specifically that he would continue to publicly endorse their products. "I watched that press conference closely and I heard the commissioner promise his support in all areas," said Charles Grantham, executive director of the N.B.A. Players Association, referring to David Stern. "We expect to hold him to it." There is a danger to putting too much effort into casting Johnson as the messiah for the war against AIDS. It's too neat, too easy and there is too much evidence that those most vulnerable don't believe that a messiah could exist. For in cities ruined by gunfire, drugs and the inevitable spreading of AIDS, the shock of Len Bias's cocaine-induced death in 1986 wore off, and so will the sight of Johnson bearing his burden, smiling still but with sadness in his eyes. Just as important as corporate America rushing into production public-service announcements, better even than promoting Johnson as a celebrity leper, would be business as usual, without the basketball in his hands. Let him pitch cars and fast food. Don't limit him to being a smile on the face of AIDS. He does not have to wear a sign reminding us of what he has. The world knows. If he is allowed to stay in the mainstream, the world will also see that having this virus doesn't have to mean ostracism, too. A death sentence is horrible enough. A divisive one is worse. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 13, 1991, on Page B00007 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; Keep Magic In the Mainstream.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »