Advertisement By MICHAEL MARTINEZ September is full of baseball's best images: wild throws, crazy hops on artificial turf, close calls, tight races, magic numbers, champagne celebrations. These are the pleasures, and pains, of a pennant race. And they are what the Los Angeles Dodgers and the Atlanta Braves will be encountering as they fight it out in the National League West for the next 29 games right into the first weekend of October. The Dodgers have plenty of experience with these matters, but Friday night in Pittsburgh they embark on an 11-game, 10-day, 4-city trip that could resemble a walk through a minefield. "It's going to be an eye-opener," their center fielder, Brett Butler, said the other day. "For us to succeed -- to make it much easier on ourselves -- we need to do well on this trip." Advertisement Eight weeks ago, at the three-day break for the All-Star Game, the Dodgers were holding a lead of five games in the N.L. West. Since then, they were caught and passed, although only temporarily, by the Braves, who ended Los Angeles's 106-day run in first place in late August. The two teams spent three days in a tie for the lead before Los Angeles regained its advantage by one game on Wednesday. A Shaky Grip Advertisement It's a tenuous hold, especially with the Dodgers now beginning a treacherous trip that includes four games with the N.L. East-leading Pirates -- including a doubleheader Friday night -- then two each at Cincinnati and Houston and three in Atlanta. If the Dodgers wince at the thought of leaving home, it's understandable. They were 24-15 on the road at the All-Star Game break but have lost 20 of 26 after it, going 2-9, 3-7 and 1-4 on their last three trips. They are also 1-12 in road games decided by one run since the break. "The only way to approach it," said pitcher Bob Ojeda, "is just not think about it." Wherever we are, we need to feel like we're in L.A. It has to become irrelevant from here on out." But how can it? The first eight games of the trip will be played on artificial surfaces, where the Dodgers are 12-22. Indoors, they are 2-11. Their third stop is the Astrodome, where they have lost five of seven and were swept last month. In the clubhouse, there are nothing but shrugs. "Your guess is as good as mine," Butler said. "We're struggling against certain clubs, and they happen to be clubs that play on turf or in domes. You've got to blow it off. It's a two-team race. Do your job and you'll win." The Dodgers have had some trouble winning lately, primarily because they have been unable to get their pitching and hitting in sync. They lead the National League in team earned run average, but -- with the exception of Butler and a rejuvenated Darryl Strawberry -- have sputtered offensively.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Butler, who has been the Dodgers' most valuable player, hit .351 in August. Strawberry has been soaring since the break: .303, 14 home runs and 43 runs batted in in 53 games. But the Dodgers' two other key offensive components, Kal Daniels and Eddie Murray, slumped in August while the team went 13-16 and lost 10 1/2 games in the standing to Atlanta. Daniels, who has bone chips in his left knee, hit .209 last month with just one home run. Murray, playing despite rumors of a broken rib, was batting .222 before starting a nine-game hitting streak in which he is hitting .467 with four homers, all in the last five games. Advertisement Manager Tom Lasorda, desperate to stop his team's uneven ride, even spent a few days in the third-base coaching box last week, exhorting his players and the fans. He remains the eternal optimist. "I can't think about what's happened before," he said. "We played good on the road in the first half, so I'm saying we can do it again. I've got to have confidence, and I've got to make the players feel confident." Key Homer by Murray There seem to be the right signs, too, that the Dodgers are generating a positive frame of mind. Tuesday, they beat St. Louis at Dodger Stadium when Cardinal third baseman Todd Zeile threw a ball into a photographers' well in the bottom of the ninth inning. Wednesday, Murray, looking like Kirk Gibson in Game 1 of the 1988 World Series, limped off the bench with a slightly sprained left ankle and helped deliver an 8-3 victory with a three-run pinch-hit homer. The Dodgers made just one move in August, acquiring reliever Roger McDowell -- he is the sixth former Met on the roster -- from Philadelphia. McDowell has two victories and two saves but also two blown saves. General Manager Fred Claire is willing to trade for a left-handed reliever, even though that player wouldn't be available for the post-season, in order to help John Candelaria, who has worked in a career-high 50 games and has warmed up in countless others. The Dodgers, though, seem willing to take what they have into the stretch, believing that their experience will be enough to hold off the upstart Braves, who have lost four of five games and might be sensing the importance of the moment. Each Game Means Something "There's no substitute for experience, and we have a lot of that here," Ojeda said. "A lot of guys have a tendency to get tight at this time. It's one thing to be in a pennant race in June and July, but now it's September." The Dodgers may find out how much in the next 10 days, which end up with the three games at Atlanta. After that, they play 13 of their last 18 at home, where their 44 victories are tops in the majors. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 6, 1991, on Page B00009 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Dodgers Have Some Dates With Danger.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »