Advertisement  AP John Smoltz came within two outs of pitching Atlanta's first no-hitter in 17 years as the Braves beat the Philadelphia Phillies today, 6-1. After Smoltz struck out Ricky Jordan leading off the ninth, Len Dykstra ripped a 1-0 pitch down the right-field line for a double. One out later, Von Hayes singled to right to spoil the shutout bid. Smoltz got Rod Booker on a grounder to short to end the game and finished with a two-hitter. The right-hander entered the game having allowed 49 hits and 31 runs in 46 innings for a 5.48 earned run average. The last Atlanta pitcher to toss a no-hitter was Phil Niekro, on Aug. 5, 1973, against San Diego. There has never been a nine-inning no-hitter at Veterans Stadium, which opened in 1971. Pascual Perez, then with the Montreal Expos, pitched a five-inning no-hitter there on Sept. 24, 1988. Advertisement Dykstra led off the first inning with a sharp grounder to the right of second base that appeared headed for the outfield. But Jeff Treadway made a diving stop and threw Dykstra out by a step. Advertisement Nobody else came close to having a hit for the Phillies until the ninth. Smoltz (3-4), who changed speeds well and had a good fastball, struck out eight and walked three, including Hayes twice. After walking Hayes in the seventh, Smoltz picked him off. Dodgers 14, Cardinals 7 ST. LOUIS (AP) - Los Angeles scored nine runs in the first inning. Stan Javier, Lenny Harris, Chris Gwynn and Eddie Murray each had two hits in the inning. The Dodgers sent 14 batters to the plate in their biggest inning since they scored 10 runs against San Diego on Sept. 12, 1977. The nine runs were the most given up in an inning by the Cardinals since Chicago scored nine runs in the sixth on June 8, 1986. The Dodgers had 10 of their 19 hits in the first as they won their fifth straight game, their longest streak of the year. Jose DeLeon started for the Cardinals, who have lost three in a row. Expos 5, Reds 3 MONTREAL (AP) - Andres Galarraga and Tim Raines hit home runs for Montreal. The Reds, who lost a 3-0 lead, were attempting to sweep a four-game series in Montreal for the first time since the Expos entered the league in 1969. The game was only the second in 25 this season that the Reds had lost after scoring first. Pirates 5, Giants 2 PITTSBURGH (AP) - Neal Heaton improved his record to 8-1, and Don Slaught and Barry Bonds hit homers in Pittsburgh's three-run fifth inning. Advertisement Andy Van Slyke went 3 for 4 and hit a bases-empty homer in the seventh inning for Pittsburgh's fourth run. Rick Reuschel (2-6), the Giants' starter, remained without a victory against Pittsburgh since August 1980. Reuschel left with two out in the seventh when he twisted his left knee. Cubs 11, Astros 6 CHICAGO (AP) - Ryne Sandberg had four hits, including a pair of homers, and drove in four runs for Chicago, which ended a four-game losing streak.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Sandberg hit a three-run homer in the fourth inning and hit his ninth of the season in the sixth to help make a winner of Mike Bielecki (3-3). Bielecki, who helped himself with two singles, allowed eight hits and two runs in the six innings. Bielecki was 3 for 70 last season but has 6 hits in 17 times at bat this season. Angels 7, Brewers 3 ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) - California won its seventh straight game. Johnny Ray's bases-empty home run in the fifth inning broke a 2-2 tie and Wally Joyner added a grand slam in the seventh. Ray, who earlier singled to stretch his hitting streak to 12 games, hit his second homer of the season. His first homer came on his first time at bat on opening night. Twins 3, Red Sox 1 MINNEAPOLIS (AP) - Dan Gladden led off the bottom of the first inning with a home run and Kevin Tapani shut out Boston for seven innings as Minnesota completed a three-game sweep. Gladden's homer, his fourth of the season, came just after Tapani (6-3) escaped serious trouble in the top of the inning. Wade Boggs walked and Jody Reed doubled but Tapani struck out Mike Greenwell, Tom Brunansky and Danny Heep. Orioles 9, Rangers 2 ARLINGTON, Tex. (AP) - Jeff Ballard, who won 18 games last year, earned his first victory of the season. Advertisement Ballard (1-5) yielded two runs and five hits over six innings and the Orioles swept a road series for the first time since last June in Seattle. The start was Ballard's ninth of the season. He was 8-1 after nine starts last year. White Sox 2, Tigers 1 DETROIT (AP) - Ron Kittle singled home the tie-breaking run with two out in the seventh inning after an intentional walk to Carlton Fisk. Jack Morris (2-7) had allowed just one hit going into the seventh -Fisk's fifth-inning homer - but Robin Ventura singled to lead off the inning. Rodney McCray, a pinch-runner, stole second with one out and Dan Pasqua struck out before Fisk was walked. Blue Jays 5, Mariners 1 SEATTLE (AP) - Manny Lee, Junior Felix and Pat Borders hit homers as Toronto completed a three-game series sweep. Seattle suffered its fourth consecutive defeat and saw its record at the Kingdome drop to 8-14, the worst home record in the American League. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 28, 1990, on Page 1001035 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL;   Smoltz's No-Hit Bid Spoiled by Dykstra.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »