Advertisement By CLAIRE SMITH WHAT the New York Mets and the Oakland Athletics had in common when the second half of the baseball season geared up last night was that both teams were within two and a half games of their respective division leaders. What the Mets have to hope they have in common with the A's for the rest of the season is the kind of killer instinct that Oakland possesses. The A's will assure anyone who wants to listen at any time that the rest of the American League West erred in not burying a very good team when given the chance during Oakland's disappointing first half. Do teams in the National League East look at the Mets in much the same fashion? Do they fear the waking of a sleeping Dwight Gooden, the return of Vince Coleman, say, the way the Twins might look upon a reawakening Dave Stewart or a revived Jose Canseco? The Mets don't make it a point to poll their opponents. All they know is what they think and feel about the momentum they carried into this second half. And, said catcher Mackey Sasser, "we know we're winners." Advertisement "You have guys who give up and you have guys who don't," he said. "We were six and a half games out. We could have given up, but we didn't give up." Advertisement Sasser spoke just before the Mets took a seven-game winning streak and their newly polished swagger out against the San Diego Padres at Shea Stadium and won, 4-3. Not that this team could have ever been accused of having a low opinion of itself -- the cockiness of 1986 flows through many a body here. But, said John Franco, the Mets' stopper, "the confidence is starting to rise." And so have the Mets, putting a serious hurt on the Pirates' safe standing in the days right before the All-Star Game break. When the Mets left New York 12 days ago, they were simply an abundantly talented but mystifying team, lost not only in their own miseries, but also in the National League East. They departed after watching the Phillies beat up on a suddenly vulnerable Gooden. They were six and a half games out, looking not for miracles, but for some small signs of hope. And they went looking in Montreal and Philadelphia, the hometowns of the worst teams in the N.L. East. "We were hoping just to get it to four games," Franco said. "We got it to two and a half." For nearly two weeks, they exceeded their expectations and found something that might have been worn thin, if not lost: a belief in themselves. Now this being New York, a cynical town made all the more so by Mets disappointments of the past few years, the Mets might still be pretty lonely in that belief.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Doubters can pick apart the winning streak and more. It has been pointed out that the Mets are 20-6 this season against the Phillies and Expos, but only 12-18 against National League teams that finished the first half with better-than-.500 records. The Mets, with an offense perceived to have quiet stars as opposed to combustible bats, are 11-14 in one-run games. The players have heard the stats, sensed the cynicism. And they realize that in this town, their victories may continue to be greeted with less enthusiasm than valiant losses by the Yankees, a group of youngsters perceived as overachieving, exciting and new. There's some winning back to do here. Mets players know they must take advantage of the opportunity that is presenting itself, now. They aren't asking a lot as they try. They just want to be given credit for doing what they have to do, like beating the Philadelphias and Montreals. "Look, we beat the teams we should have," Franco said. "That's not taking anything away from the Phillies or the Expos, but that's what good teams do." Advertisement "And win streaks start when you beat the teams you're supposed to beat on, and then you carry it over," said Sasser. "Now it's time to play the West Division teams. We have to show them we can beat them, too. We have to show them we can be consistent." The Mets have little left to prove against the likes of Philadelphia and Montreal. They also have little left to do with those teams, what with only 10 games remaining against them combined. On the other hand, 24 games remain against the Pirates and Cardinals, East Division teams the Mets spent much of the first half of the season chasing, teams that are a combined 8-4 against New York. The Mets, like the A's, now have the opportunity to strut their stuff. It remains to be seen who exits 1991 with confidence and cockiness intact. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 12, 1991, on Page B00009 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; Ya Gotta Believe, Or Do Ya?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »