Advertisement By JOSEPH DURSO Dr. Manuel A. Gilman has watched nearly 19,000 horse races as one of the three stewards who monitor New York racing from a glassed-in booth high over the finish line. But as he closes out as career that included 37 years as a veterinarian and 7 as a steward, the view that troubles him most is the Offtrack Betting parlor across the street from the race track. "I am worried about racing," he said the other day at Aqueduct. "I have a picture in my office showing 50,000 people at Belmont Park. You don't get crowds like that anymore. OTB has certainly changed racing as we used to know it. "It would be wonderful if the offices weren't close to the race track, so the track could put on its show for the public. But when you see betting offices across the street from Belmont and Aqueduct, it worries me. OTB is eating up the parent business of racing, which it depends upon." Gilman, a reflective man of 71, a graduate of the University of Maine who studied veterinary medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, has been a constant on the racing scene for 40 years. For 32 of those years, he was the chief veterinarian at New York's tracks, then general manager of Harbor View Farm and more recently the steward representing the Jockey Club. Advertisement He will retire as a steward as the year ends, but he won't retire as an advocate of the horse, and he leaves office with some firm messages, especially on the abuse of medication for race horses. Advertisement "When I first came around, everyone was of the opinion that every horse should run without drugs," he said. "I still believe that's the best way to go. It's better for the horse, better for the patrons to handicap and not worry about drugs. And it's better for the breed: Nature should select the stronger, sounder horses. But some of the big horses' wins have been camouflaged by drugs. "The drug situation is a major problem that racing has been facing but to this day has not resolved. It's a give-and-take situation between what drugs are permitted and what the laboratories can detect. What we need is a uniform drug rule, and uniform enforcement of the rule." He noted that New York was the only major state that still outlawed Lasix and Butazolidin and other medications for race horses, and said: "Any fair-minded person would say horses would be better off if they ran without medication. But these horses are constantly medicated between races to treat minor wounds and to keep them at their best. But it's not natural. Any medication has side effects."  Six Television Monitors  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Nine times a day, six days a week, Gilman monitors horses from a wired command post that affords a sweeping view of the track. He works alongside Richard L. Hamilton, who serves as the steward for the New York Racing Association, and John P. Joyce, who represents the state Racing and Wagering Board. They train their binoculars on every horse before and during each race, checking for rough riding and other violations. They call up instant replays with different angles on six television monitors and can shoot questions to people over six direct telephone lines. "Horses are in a stall 23 hours a day," Gilman said. "That's not what nature intended. They love to run. They're bred to run, and trained to run. So, they don't know anything different. A healthy horse will run at the same speed and distance whether it's 10 degrees above zero or 95 above. The ideal horse will stay sound and run consistently over a period of years." The ideal horse? Still an ideal, he said, but some came close.  Listing the Greats "Stymie went from rags to riches and became the world's leading money winner," he said. "Kelso could go any distance and carry any weight. He wouldn't catch your eye in a crowd, but he won the Jockey Club Gold Cup five consecutive times. Forego was a 17-hand giant who could sprint or stay two miles. He won the Woodward four consecutive times. "Ruffian was a great filly who never had a horse in front of her until the day she died. John Henry was one of the toughest horses to look through a bridle. He won Horse of the Year at the age of 9. Native Dancer was a brilliant horse whose only loss came in the Kentucky Derby and who was America's first TV star of the track. "Ta Wee was quick and powerful, and won under weights as high as 140 pounds. Buckpasser was one of the finest and best-looking horses I have ever seen. Affirmed was a delicate horse who always wanted to win. No horse ever raced head and head through the stretch and beat him." He checked his list and said with appreciation: "You know, none of them ran on drugs." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 5, 1991, on Page B00027 of the National edition with the headline: HORSE RACING; Thoughts From The Glass Booth.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »