Advertisement  Steeplechase Racing 16-1 Shot Wins Grand National: Mr. Frisk, a 16-1 shot, held off Dunham Edition by three-quarters of a length yesterday to win the Grand National Steeplechase in Liverpool, England, in the record time of 8 minutes 47.8 seconds. The 11-year-old gelding was ridden by Marcus Armytage, the first amateur jockey to win the four-and-a-half-mile race since 1982, and broke the race record by more than 14 seconds. Mr. Frisk won $113,000 for Lois Duffey, an 83-year-old American who had a horse participating in the Grand National for the first time. The race was run over 30 fences. Roll-a-Joint died instantly after a fall at the Canal Turn fence and Hungary Hur broke its leg at the 20th fence.(AP) Tennis Van Rensburg in Final: Christo van Rensburg of South Africa defeated David Pate, 6-7, 6-3, 7-5, yesterday to advance to the final of the Prudential-Bache Securities Classic in Orlando, Fla. Van Rensburg will meet the winner of last night's semifinal between Brad Gilbert and MaliVai Washington. Van Rensburg broke Pate in the 11th game of the third set, reaching break point with a forehand winner, then winning when Pate netted a forehand volley.(AP) Sanchez Advances: Third-seeded Emilio Sanchez of Spain advanced to the final of the Estoril Open yesterday with a 6-2, 6-1 victory over his countryman Jordi Arrese. Sanchez, favored to win the tournament after top-seeded Jay Berger lost his quarterfinal match Friday to the unseeded Arrese, will face either Juan Aguilera of Spain or Franco Davin of Argentina in the final today.(AP) Golf Brown Leads by One Shot: Nancy Brown, seeking her first victory in six years on the Ladies Professional Golf Association tour, fired a two-under-par 69 yesterday for a one-stroke lead over Missie McGeorge after three rounds of the Red Robin Kyocera Inamori Classic in Poway, Calif. Brown carded three birdies and one bogey over the 6,024-yard StoneRidge Country Club course and was at eight-under 205.(AP) Bowling Palombi Is Open Champion: Ron Palombi Jr. rolled eight consecutive strikes to beat Amleto Monacelli by 269-205 yesterday in the championship match of the Seagrams United States Open in Indianapolis. Palombi earned $80,000, the richest prize ever on the bowling tour.(AP) Boxing Paez Keeps His Title: Jorge Paez, who escaped with a draw the last time he fought Louie Espinoza, rallied in the last half of the fight yesterday to capture a 12-round split decision over Espinoza and retain his International Boxing Federation featherweight title. The fight was held in Las Vegas, Nev. Paez, winning for the second straight time by split decision, successfully defended his 126-pound crown for the seventh time. He took six of the last seven rounds on the cards of two judges to beat Espinoza. They fought to a draw last May during their first meeting for the I.B.F. crown. Paez trailed on all three scorecards before beginning to find the range midway through the fight, and seemed to wear down the challenger as the fight progressed. Patricia Jarman and Jerry Roth, two judges, both had Paez winning by 115-113. Dalby Shirley, the other judge, had Espinoza ahead by the same margin. Paez, a 24-year-old Mexican, improved is record to 35-2-2. Espinoza, from Phoenix, fell to 35-4-1.(AP) We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 1990, on Page 8008011 of the National edition with the headline: RESULTS PLUS.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »