Advertisement By CLIFTON BROWN In the team's second trade in two days, the Knicks sent guard Maurice Cheeks to the Atlanta Hawks last night for center Tim McCormick, a seven-season veteran who will serve as a much-needed backup to Patrick Ewing. The trade, just a day after the Knicks obtained the high-scoring forward Xavier McDaniel of the Phoenix Suns for forward Jerrod Mustaf, guard Trent Tucker and two second-round draft choices, adds to what will be a distinctly new look for the Knicks this season. In addition to Tucker, Mustaf and Cheeks, a 35-year-old 13-year veteran who played his first 11 seasons in Philadelphia, the 1991-92 Knicks will also be without another familiar face, Kenny Walker, who was not offered a new contract. The Knicks were not able to reach Cheeks last night, but in Atlanta, McCormick, a former Michigan star who had played with Seattle, Philadelphia, the Nets and Houston before joining the Hawks, called the move a "tremendous opportunity." He has averaged 8.7 points and 5.1 rebounds a game during his career. Advertisement "I think I'll fill the void at backup center and power forward," he said. "I consider myself first and foremost a team player and will tailor my game to whatever the team's needs are." Advertisement If the Knicks weren't careful McCormick could end up serving as a backup point guard as well. That's because the departure of Cheeks left the Knicks, at least temporarily, with just one point guard, Mark Jackson, although the trade seemed to indicate that the Knicks had renewed confidence that they would be able to sign their first-round draft choice, Greg Anthony, before training camp opens tomorrow in Charleston, S.C. With Cheeks gone, Anthony, a 6-foot-2-inch guard from the University of Nevada-Las Vegas, will be expected to compete with Jackson for the starting point guard position. The Knicks' president, Dave Checketts, had made it clear yesterday that once Anthony was signed, Coach Pat Riley would decide which two of the three point guards to keep. Earlier yesterday Checketts had said that the team would not open the regular season with all three-point guards on the roster. "I'm not going to open the season with that kind of controversy," Checketts said. "I don't want it and we don't need it. We'll have to get that situation cleaned up." That the decision to trade Cheeks was made before Anthony was signed suggested that the Knicks were far more confident last night than they had been during the day that Anthony would agree to terms.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Checketts, who had expressed confidence throughout the summer that Anthony would be signed before camp, altered his stance yesterday, indicating that progress toward a contract had stopped. Asked what the stumbling blocks were, Checketts said: "It's always two things, years and money. It's almost in vogue to do things at the last minute. I don't think teams necessarily do that, but player representatives push and push to get the best deal they can. Advertisement "I don't begrudge them that. I'm not confident Greg will be signed by camp, but I'm hopeful. I know Leigh Steinberg wants to have him in camp, and we want him there." The Knicks are trying to fit Anthony into the $875,000 salary slot left open when they decided not to re-sign Walker. Anthony's attorney, Leigh Steinberg, has refused to indicate how much he is seeking from the Knicks, but he is probably seeking a contract greater than $875,000 this season. Who's In, Who's Not After acquiring McDaniel for Mustaf, Tucker and second-round draft picks in 1992 and 1994, the Knicks are slightly under the salary cap for the first time since the pay ceiling was established. While Checketts continued to work on signing Anthony, McDaniel arrived in town yesterday and underwent a daylong physical. McDaniel, a 6-7 high-scoring small forward, did not speak to reporters yesterday, but the Knicks expect him to be ready to start camp. McDaniel was bothered by sore knees last season, but the Knicks do not feel that will hinder his play this season. The biggest risk in trading for McDaniel may be his contract, which includes a $500,000 buyout clause. If McDaniel exercises that clause by January, he would become an unrestricted free agent after the season. If he decides against using the clause, he will have two additional years remaining on his contract, which pays him $1.6 million this season, and $1.8 million the next two seasons. McDaniel's attorney, Bill Strickland, would not say what McDaniel's plans were. But Strickland and the Knicks will probably discuss McDaniel's contract in the near future. If McDaniel is happy in New York, and if the Knicks restructure his contract, the buyout clause could become a non-issue. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 3, 1991, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: BASKETBALL; Knicks Send Cheeks to Hawks for McCormick.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »