Advertisement By HARVEY ARATON and  It apparently is unwise to count Mark Price out of a career, a game and even a single play. He comes back and he brings his team, the Cleveland Cavaliers, along with him. Kenny Anderson and the Nets found this out the hard way tonight, particularly in one key fourth-quarter sequence of a 116-112 defeat, after Price's two free throws gave the Cavaliers, who had trailed by 17 points after the first half, a 107-106 lead with 2 minutes 16 seconds left in the game. As Anderson was about to receive a pass in the backcourt, Price darted for a steal, missed and his momentum took him out of bounds. Anderson shifted into high gear, dribbling quickly past midcourt and into the teeth of the Cleveland defense. "I was about to give it up to Sam Bowie, I think, for a layup," Anderson said. "All of a sudden. . . ." Advertisement There was Price, swatting the ball off the rookie's gifted left hand, to the left sideline, where it squirted through the legs of Rafael Addison. After a timeout, and a Bill Fitch substitution of Mookie Blaylock for Anderson, Price showed that he is an indiscriminate undresser of defenders. He bolted past Blaylock for a right-side leaner and a 3-point lead. Price, Again Advertisement That the Nets tied the score at 110 with 47.9 seconds left only enabled Price to demonstrate more resilience. He scored the next 4 points -- 2 on a gorgeous spin in the lane for a scooping bank shot -- and actually figured prominently in 17 of the Cavaliers' last 22 points, as they handed the Nets another narrow defeat. The good big-picture news for the Nets, beyond their 71-point, 66 percent shooting in the first half, was Anderson's 18 points on 9-of-15 shooting, his 6 assists, his 4 rebounds and his steady, slippery ball-handling against an inspired Cleveland defense during the second half. But by then, Price was in command of his game and the game. His body, stiff and sore from Wednesday's loss in Charlotte, had loosened. His left knee, rebuilt after a career-threatening tear of the anterior cruciate ligament last November, was offering no resistance whatsoever. "The knee hasn't been a problem at all," Price said. "It's the rest of my body that hurts, trying to get back into game condition."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. This was Price's fifth game back after missing the last 66 games last season, which resulted in Cleveland, no doubt a serious playoff team with him, losing 42 of them. The 1991-92 Cavaliers are 4-1 with Price. The way Coach Lenny Wilkens looks at it, his team has its leader back and therefore the player to direct it northward in the standings. The best way for the Nets to look at it is that Price's presence clearly underscores the need for a superior point guard in the N.B.A. of the 1990s. Which Anderson, his rookie roller coaster ascending as it did against the Knicks at Madison Square Garden earlier this month, tonight again promised to be. The 6-0 Price, who finished with a season-high 24 points in 28 minutes, including 18 in the final period, was clearly impressed with the 6-1 Anderson. Here were two Georgia Tech All Americans going head-to-head, crossover dribble to dribble, for the bulk of the fourth quarter, or until Fitch sat Anderson down with 2:16 remaining. "I was surprised, actually, that they took him out," Price said. "I was glad, too. He was playing well offensively. He's got all the stuff. He just needs experience and to work on his defense." Advertisement The two point guards had met in passing several times in Atlanta, but never played against each other. They knew enough about each other to not be surprised. "Apparently, the knee can't be that bad if he's out there," Anderson said. "I just figured he was a little off in the first half. He's one of the best point guards in the league. You don't count him out." Not out of a career, a game or a play, as the Nets learned tonight. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 22, 1991, on Page B00010 of the National edition with the headline: BASKETBALL; Price Is In Better Shape Than Nets.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »