Advertisement By STEVEN CRIST Is Mr. Frisky for real? Has surgery restored Rhythm? Are there any decent 3-year-olds left in Florida? The answers will emerge during a 90-minute stretch of major Kentucky Derby prep races around the country tomorrow. First up is the $306,000 Gotham Stakes at Aqueduct, where Rhythm will begin his post-operative second season against 10 other 3-year-olds. Last year's champion 2-year-old underwent throat surgery on March 8 to repair a breathing problem that may or may not have accounted for his two dismal races in Florida. The operation is similar to ones performed on Tank's Prospect, who went on to win the 1985 Preakness, and Alysheba, the 1987 Derby and Preakness winner. Whether or not the surgery was a success, it remains to be seen how good a colt Rhythm really is, and tomorrow's race is no easy test. He breaks from the tricky inside post going a mile in a field filled with fitter colts. Rhythm is rated only third choice on the early line behind the California invader Burnt Hills, who won the Bolsa Chica at Santa Anita on Feb. 21, and the D. Wayne Lukas-trained entry of Richard R. and Kentucky Jazz. Advertisement The field of 11 is completed by Senor Pete, last year's Belmont Futurity winner; For Really and Cielo, second and third to Richard R. in the Bay Shore last time; Thirty Six Red, third to Housebuster and Summer Squall in the Swale, and the long shots Paradise Found, Lo Bucker and Le Prince. Advertisement The Gotham leads to the Wood Memorial at a mile and an eighth on April 21, two weeks before the Derby. All the Gotham entrants are prospects for the Wood, along with Champagneforashley, who will first tune up against fellow New York-breds in the DeWitt Clinton Stakes at Aqueduct on Friday. About half an hour after the Gotham, a field of 12 will line up for Gulfstream's new $200,000 Preview Stakes at a mile and an eighth. The top 3-year-olds who spent the winter in Florida have left town, leaving Run Turn, who won the Tropical Park Derby and ran third in the Florida Derby, as the likely favorite. Private Game, a stablemate of Rhythm, was supplemented to the field off a six-length allowance victory last Saturday and will get plenty of support, but he has yet to run a stakes-caliber race.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The key to the race seems to be whether Run Turn can avoid an early duel with Sunny Serve, the pace setter in both the Fountain of Youth and the Florida Derby. The others in the race are Home at Last, Falling Sky, Ross's Warning, Wolf Spy, Seasabb, V. J.'s Honor, Five Bells, Sound of Cannons and Always Running. All Eyes on Mr. Frisky The major attraction this afternoon is the $500,000 Santa Anita Derby, in which Mr. Frisky will try to run his unbeaten record to 16 for 16. He will be the favorite, but all the smart alecks are trying to beat him, believing that his first 13 victories in Puerto Rico were against second-raters and not believing that he will get the distance of a mile and an eighth. Mr. Frisky twice won at a mile and a sixteenth in Puerto Rico, and has won going seven and eight furlongs at Santa Anita this winter. Mr. Frisky is even-money on the early line, followed by Real Cash, the Lukas trainee who led all the way to win the San Felipe on March 18, at 2-1. Warcraft, the top prospect for Charlie Whittingham and the San Felipe runner-up, is next at 5-1, and Music Prospector, Single Dawn, Balla Cove, Assyrian Pirate and Video Ranger complete the field. As Californians never tire of pointing out, the last four Kentucky Derby winners all spent the winter in California and the last two, Winning Colors and Sunday Silence, won the roses after winning the Santa Anita Derby. All three of the prep races tomorrow will be televised nationally. The Preview and the Santa Anita Derby will be shown live on ABC between 5 and 6 P.M., and a delayed one-hour Gotham telecast will be on ESPN from 6 P.M. to 7 P.M. Keeneland Starting Off Strong Keeneland opens its 15-day spring meeting today and the racing looks unusually strong. Go for Wand, last year's champion 2-year-old filly, will make her season debut in the Beaumont Stakes on Tuesday. Housebuster will run in the Lafayette for 3-year-olds on Wednesday. The Blue Grass Stakes on April 14, shaping up as the spring's best Derby prep, is expected to draw Summer Squall, Unbridled, Shot Gun Scott and Slavic. . . . Aqueduct will be closed the next two Sundays, with racing instead being held the next two Tuesdays. . . . Easy Goer, who set the Aqueduct track record of a mile in 1:32 2/5 while winning last year's Gotham, had his first workout of the year last Saturday at Gulfstream, breezing three furlongs in 38 seconds. He is likely to return in a Belmont allowance race next month and then the Metropolitan Handicap on May 28. . . . Louis J. Roussel 3d sold his family's controlling 53.6 percent interest in the Fair Grounds in New Orleans on Wednesday for $14.7 million to the owners of Jefferson Downs in Kenner, La. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 6, 1990, on Page A00030 of the National edition with the headline: Notebook;   A 90-Minute Test for 3-Year-Olds.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »