Advertisement By GEORGE VECSEY THIS is just a wild suggestion on my part, but it may be time to start taking Pete Sampras quite seriously. He just may be around for a while. Not only is he knocking off Grand Slam tournaments two per year now, but he is giving the impression he is not going to get bored or sated, not drifting off to Borgville, out there in his own private Monaco, just watching the wheels go round and round. It is just possible we have a latter-day classic on our hands, who lulls us into near complacency with his modest brilliance. He rolled all over Cedric Pioline yesterday, 6-4, 6-4, 6-3, forcing Pioline to spray tennis balls all over the borough of Queens when the high-torque power of Sampras met the highly-strung tension of Pioline. Sampras overpowered the No. 15 seeded player, and he did it with relative smoothness and decency -- no finger-pointing, no butt-wiggling, no umpire-baiting, no racquet-stroking stalling, no crowd-playing. Tennis like it used to be. Advertisement And this was not by accident. Sampras said afterward that when he was a junior back in California, his coach, Pete Fischer, led him to admire the old reliables of tennis, the Aussies. Advertisement "There wasn't an American that I really idolized," Sampras said. "Sure, I respected McEnroe's talent and Connors's intensity, but the Aussies, those guys were great guys." The players he admired most were Rod Laver and Ken Rosewall, Harry Hopman's lads, who traveled together, took their meals together, obeyed the rules together, back when players dreamed of making a living in tennis. Later, they considered themselves lucky to be playing in their late 30's. Nowadays, Andre Agassi uses Wimbledon to pose for sun-glass commercials, and if he happens to win one, hey, that's cool. Sampras is not going to win 'em all because the tour is too deep for that. He wouldn't promise he will win the Grand Slam; four tournaments on four surfaces in four climates in one year are a brutal test. But hehas three Grand Slam singles titles already and he just turned 22 on Aug. 12. Twenty-two. "I enjoy playing," he said earlier in this tournament. "And I am sure I will for a lot of years to come." Sampras carries himself with some of the boyish bashful solemnity of the young DiMaggio. He seems a bit in awe of the gift he carries. You knew the kid could serve from the way he blasted the ball past everybody at the age of 19 right here in this metallic chafing dish of Flushing Meadows. But he will be the first to tell you, "My game wasn't really developed when I won here. I just had two hot weeks."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Under the watch of Tim Gullickson, Sampras plays the backhand, cuts down the angles, rushes to the net, all with the fluidity and resourcefulness of a master. Poker-faced Unitas, going back to pass. Silken Elgin Baylor making a head fake and taking off. Rosewall and Laver, the Aussies who were so quiet and so polite that people didn't really appreciate them until they were practically old masters. That's the company Sampras could reach. "Well, if I can maintain this for 10 years, then I will be in their company," Sampras said yesterday. "Those guys were class acts. That is something I try to present when I play." Advertisement He seems to have gone through the demons of too-much, too-soon, that kept Mats Wilander in Connecticut in his mid-20's, that are turning introspective Boris Becker into a modern Flying Dutchman, a haunted vessel. Agassi may never win anything that requires even a dull-normal tennis I.Q. They flame out fast in this business. "I think a lot of guys have different approaches to the game than Andre," Sampras said recently. "You know, he has so many outside distractions, where I really don't. Everywhere he goes, he is mobbed, and maybe he causes that kind of aura. Maybe he likes it, I don't know, but my main goal is to try to win tennis matches and that is really it." Sampras showed his youthfulness in 1991, when he admitted the 1990 Open title had been "a monkey on my back." Some of us chortled when the kid got knocked out in 1991. Can't stand the heat, get out of the stadium. Last year he lost to Edberg and a stomach virus in the finals. No disgrace in that. "I really struggled off and on the court," Sampras said yesterday about the first six months after the 1990 Open. Recently he said, "I was getting a little frustrated. But I realized I am still young, got a lot of time ahead of me. The Wimbledon victory was very satisfying and it was very big for me mentally." Some of us wrote that Sampras versus Courier was lackluster at Wimbledon because they knew each other's games too well, because the grass courts were too hard-baked, producing a high-bouncing ball, easy to blast. It was hot at Wimbledon, and maybe we were a tad grumpy. Yesterday was cool and bright, and the kid from California came out firing aces, 127 miles per hour, to send Pioline a message. He sent all of us a message. This gracious young Yank is looking forward the right way. By looking backward at the classic Aussies. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 13, 1993, on Page C00006 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; Sampras Picked the Right Role Models.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »