Advertisement  This may be as good as it gets. I'm up against a side wall near the bar in Mickey Mantle's restaurant, eating a free hot dog and drinking a free beer after having seen a baseball movie. Free. Almost too close for comfort, a famous nonlocal pro Quarterback (Q.) is trying to score with a famous swimsuit Model (M.). As hard as I try not to eavesdrop, his signals are audible. "So, is he," asks Q., canting his remarkable neck toward a handsome young man who seems to be hanging onto M.'s waist-length blonde hair, "your husband?" Her poise under pressure seems pure grace, unless she really isn't sure how to answer. As Q. waits for patterns to develop, his neck swells alarmingly, until his head resembles a silver trophy football on a pedestal. Finally, M. says, "That's my agent from William Morris." The tension flows out of Q.'s neck, he smiles, rocks back on his heels, and tries to remember plays. During this commercial break, I think about the movie just screened, the occasion for this private party. It is called "Pastime." It opens today in New York. While the movie seemed as long as a Mets road trip, it was also as decently worthy as Bud Harrelson. The actors were engaging, but the story, set in the mid-1950's, about an aging, perhaps mildly retarded white minor league pitcher who befriends a teen-age black rookie, seemed to have been cobbled from pieces of better stories. It had that artificial turf feel of a false fable. I was about to ask my companion, 'How do they keep getting the money to make such bush-league flicks?' when the game clock started again. Advertisement "So," asks Q., zoning in on M.'s perfect, snubby face, "you still going for the films thing?" "Films." M. nods. Her agent from William Morris is trying to scope the room, but he is shorter than M., who is close to six feet, and several of Q.'s teammates, obviously linemen, have lumbered up to check out M., who is better known to Sports Illustrated readers than they are. Advertisement "Films, good," says Q. "I'm studying broadcasting. Also real estate. Development." M. slides her eyes over Q.'s shoulders until she spots a likely receiver, an overweight, disheveled film company executive. Of course, that's how such films are made. If there is one thing the fat weenies who run Hollywood love more than lanky Yankee blondes, it is stories that capture their urban schoolyard fantasies of baseball as it should have been, moving pictures of the poet Donald Hall's line, "fathers playing catch with sons." Baseball is Oedipus Rex with free agency.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. That's what the sentimental "Field of Dreams" was about, and the joyous "Bull Durham," and even in its unsuccessful, convoluted way, "The Natural." The underrated, silly-funny "Major League" had no father-son theme, which proves nothing. I am about to share this profundity with my companion, when I notice that M., who has just tossed her hair to one side, is virtually naked from the back of her neck to where her swimsuit might begin. The zipper on her blue dress is open. Should I tell her? Maybe she wants it that way for the broken-field run across the room to the film exec. But I think that M. needs more than hair and skin to make it in this game. She needs a script. At least an outline. "Trees." Q. is smiling. "I like the city, but I need to be in the country. For trees." I sense he is trying to establish himself as a sensitive guy, but I can see he is losing yardage. I silently root Q. on, keep scrambling for just another few seconds while I try to cobble together something for M. to run with. Here goes. M. plays Ruth Babe (get it?), a great college athlete who cuts her hair and disguises her gender as did heroines of the Revolutionary and Civil Wars who fought pretending to be men. Ruth Babe, calling herself George Herman (get it?), becomes the first woman to play in the major leagues, albeit secretly, the star relief pitcher for an expansion club. She never showers with her teammates and she has her own personal trainer, a female comic, but so long as she wins everything's O.K. until the only catcher who can handle her amazing array of junk, an aging third-stringer, falls in love with her. What a breakthrough, the first baseball comedy about sexual confusion. Take it and run, M., this is your big. . . . Too late. She's made her move, cut past Q., she's following her agent from William Morris across the field. Doesn't really matter. The weenie would have made me change the story: catcher and pitcher would have to be father and son, the personal trainer would be a black male comic, and M. would get the small, but sexy role of a general manager with a heart of gold. Fay Cashen (get it?). That's it. Game's over. We run for night-light. Out on Central Park South, on the wrong side of the ropes, the fringe photogs, the autograph hounds, the scouts for the tabloid columns, ignore my friendly wave. Catch you later, after my baseball movie opens. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 23, 1991, on Page B00016 of the National edition with the headline: ROBERT LIPSYTE; My Brilliant Career: No Autographs, Please.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »