Advertisement By GEORGE VECSEY and  Fretting over the potential of three more matches crammed into the next four days, Boris Becker lost a set this afternoon, and in the process lost his temper. But the second-seeded player rebounded for a 6-4, 6-7, 6-1, 7-6 victory over Christian Bergstrom of Sweden to reach the men's quarterfinals. In other matches in the round of 16, delayed by rain on Tuesday, Andre Agassi beat Jacco Eltingh of the Netherlands, 6-3, 3-6, 6-3, 6-4; Thierry Champion of France concluded his victory over Derrick Rostagno of the United States, 6-7, 6-2, 6-1, 3-6, 6-3, and Guy Forget of France finished his victory over Tim Mayotte of the United States, 6-7, 7-5, 6-2, 6-4. Another male player lost something this afternoon, and he was probably no longer on this island when he lost it. John McEnroe was fined a rather impressive $10,000 for his language during his loss to Stefan Edberg on Tuesday.  Fine Deducted From Purse A statement by Ken Farrar and Stefan Fransson, the supervisors, said "the investigation consisted of a review of a TV film," and then quoted McEnroe verbatim, including the same curse four times, all in capital letters. Advertisement The report added, "The lines person was so intimidated to the point that he did not report the incident." Others did, however, and the $10,000 will be deducted from McEnroe's $28,560 singles purse. Advertisement Becker did not use improper language but he was warned after he threw his implement to the scrabbled grass. He then conducted an impassioned soliloquy to the racquet, saying "I don't understand it" and "I can't see a thing," in German.  Explanation of Mood After the match, Becker explained his bad mood: "After I lost that second set, I know I had to play every day now. I want to win as fast as possible. That's why I got annoyed." He knew going into the match that Edberg, who beat him in the fifth set of the final last year, had the day off to rest. Becker criticized Tuesday's order of play, saying, "I think they made a big mistake, playing the women's matches rather than all the men's matches in the morning when the sun was out." But Becker emphasized that the officials had not shown any favoritism to Edberg, who lives much of the year in the Kensington district of London. Becker to Face Forget  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. On Thursday, Becker will play Guy Forget, a left-handed clay-court specialist. Edberg also plays a French clay-court player, the right-handed Champion. In the other quarterfinals, Jim Courier of the United States will play Michael Stich of Germany, and Agassi will play David Wheaton. Weather permitting, the semifinals will be on Friday and the final on Sunday. Agassi lost a set but continued to grow in his comfort on grass and in the appreciation of the British fans. He also admitted he enjoyed knowing that Princess Diana had arrived in the Royal Box just in time for his match. "I don't have too much experience with royalty watching me, so that was good," said Agassi, who said he "caught a peek or two, but not too much because I wanted to focus." No Sunglasses This Time "If I get beat here, I want to get beat, not lose myself," Agassi said. Agassi's wardrobe did not include sunglasses, presumably since the sun was shining, and his white clothing was noticeably rumpled. He said, "I did not bring an iron with me." Advertisement Perhaps he did not pack many changes of clothing, not expecting to last into the quarterfinals. Agassi said: "Wow, it really hasn't hit me. I feel like a qualifier having the time of his life." MATCH POINTS The team of MICHIEL SCHAPERS and BRENDA SCHULTZ of the Netherlands made Wimbledon history by outlasting TOM NIJSSEN and ANDREA TEMESVARI , 6-3, 5-7, 29-27, to win the longest mixed-doubles match at the championships. The first-round match broke the 1985 mixed-doubles record set by PAUL MCNAMEE and MARTINA NAVRATILOVA , who beat SCOTT DAVIS and BETSEY NAGELSEN , 23-21, in a third set. Schapers and Schultz survived 7 match points in the third set and claimed victory in 4 hours 13 minutes. It didn't stop there, though. Forced to play their first- and second-round matches on the same day because of persistent rain delays, Schapers and Schultz were in action again later in the day against RICK LEACH and ZINA GARRISON of the United States, when darkness ended play with the score, 3-6, 6-3, 6-6, with the Americans taking the first set. A sports picture caption yesterday misidentified Boris Becker's opponent in his Wimbledon match on Wednesday in some copies, and misstated the course of the match. Becker defeated Christian Bergstrom of Sweden, 6-4, 6-7, 6-1, 7-6. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 4, 1991, on Page B00010 of the National edition with the headline: Tennis; Becker Loses Only Temper; McEnroe Is Fined $10,000.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »