Advertisement By NORMAN HILDES-HEIM and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES Harvard won one final with ease and lost another with verve as the 151st Henley Royal Regatta ended here today. The two Harvard boats, its varsity and junior varsity heavyweight eights, were the only American finalists for the 14 cups that were rowed for on the regatta's final day. The outcome of the Harvard varsity race in the first final of the day, the Ladies' Challenge Plate, was decided in the early going. The Crimson came off the line at 46 strokes to the minute. Twenty strokes into the race, it had a 20-foot lead on its opponent, the University of London. Drew Away After another 20 strokes, Harvard's lead had increased to 30 feet, and it continued to grow as the crew progressed down the course, which covered a mile and five-sixteenths. The final margin was three and two-thirds boat lengths. Advertisement ''We just rode flat out into a headwind we love,'' said Jon Bernstein, the Harvard stroke. Harvard's junior varsity had more emotion and significance riding on the outcome of its final than did the varsity. Because of a change in the eligibility rules governing the cup races, the Nottinghamshire County Rowing Association crew, which last year beat Harvard's varsity in a controversial re-row of the Ladies' Plate final, was required to race in the Thames Challenge Cup this year. Advertisement So it fell to Harvard's junior varsity to avenge the double loss inflicted on its varsity by Nottingham last year. The Nottingham crew is Britain's national lightweight training squad, and to a man the crew from last year returned to race here again at Henley.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. For the final, Harvard, which outweighed Nottingham by an average of 35 pounds per oarsman, had the added benefit of racing into a blustery headwind, which favors heavier crews. Still, Nottingham again gave a demonstration of what lightweight finesse can achieve. The Crimson junior varsity gave a good account of themselves, holding Nottingham to a victory margin of two boat lengths. Defending Champions Lose The Danish national squad caused a major upset, beating the entry from the Netherlands, the reigning world champions, in the Queen Mother Challenge Cup for quadruple sculls. Henley's foremost event, the Grand Challenge Cup, was won by the defending champion, Hansa Dortmund of West Germany, in 6 minutes 36 seconds. The time was well off Hansa's record-setting pace of last year, when it won in 5:58, the first time the Henley course had ever been rowed in less than 6 minutes. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 9, 1990, on Page C00008 of the National edition with the headline: Harvard Varsity Coasts.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »