Advertisement By CLAIRE SMITH When former heavyweight champion Sonny Liston once said that he'd rather be a lamppost in Denver than the mayor of Philadelphia, probably not a lot of people argued. The same probably applied when W. C. Fields said if the choices were either being dead or being in the City of Brotherly Love, then perhaps, all things considered, he'd rather be in Philadelphia. Unfortunately for the city stuck in the backbone of the country's East Coast corridor, the identity crisis and the fight for respect have always been somewhat losing battles. Well, the battles have ceased, for now. The Philadelphia Phillies, with their anti-Club Med flavor and aversions to conformity and compromise, have shown an entire city the way. Forget conventional wisdom, white wine and the hair mousse, dude. Pass the cheese steaks and the hoagies and get on with life. That, the National League champion Phillies have let it be known, is what they intend to do as they continue their funny-bone tickling ride through the World Series. Advertisement That they fit Philadelphia as well as they contrast with the Toronto Blue Jays, their staid World Series opponents, is obvious. And that they enjoy the differences on the field as much as the blend with their city off the field has made the Philadelphia story all the more special. Advertisement "The people care about this team more than any team in my recollection," said Mayor Ed Rendell of Philadelphia. "Because they're hard-working guys who aren't afraid to get dirt on their uniforms, who aren't afraid to be a little unconventional. Because they're so different from the athlete of today. They're something special." And they have apparently succeeded in making Philadelphia feel special. "Cities operate in great part on feel and perception," Rendell said. "And I think it really helps if people feel real good about themselves and their city. And it also helps in terms of visitors. So this thing has some direct economic benefits for us. But the indirect and the sort of psychic benefits far outweigh it." So it is that the city, which will be host to its first Series game in 10 years tonight at Veterans Stadium, will celebrate not only the winning of the National League pennant and a possible World Series championship, but also a team that reflects the area's blue-collar, workmanlike approach. A team with a down-to-earth nature that so well reflects a metropolis in many ways more than geographically at arms length from both the cosmopolitan nature of New York to the north and gentility of Baltimore to the south. The Phillies, with John Kruk and Pete Incaviglia, Mitch Williams and Darren Daulton as poster boys, like Philadelphia, may invite comic critiques at first glance. But respect is usually not too far behind. Atlantans, from the cosmopolitan center of the Deep South, jested about hiding their women and children from the Phillies during the National League Championship Series. But the Phillies did not purge or burn Atlanta. Merely the Braves' pennant hopes.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. And Blue Jays' fans participated all week in contests that invited them to find the "Phat Phillie" or complete sentences about how "the Phillies are so ugly . . ." Ultimately, the ugliest development may well be that the Jays allowed the Phillies to return home with a satisfying split of the first two games played in Toronto's Skydome. Like Atlanta, Toronto failed to keep the Phillies cornered. Now they must deal with the Phillies, in Philadelphia, in Games 3, 4 and 5. The knocks will still come, of course. Which all seems to delight Philadelphians. Nothing that has unfolded has been too humbling, too close to the bone, too ethnocentric to knock what seems like hundreds of thousands of smiles that went into place the instance the Phillies clinched the pennant. It's like they all know a wonderful secret. Rendell is convinced that they do. The Phillies are special, he believes, as much for who they are not as for who they are. "It's just that when you watch sports these days it's so disheartening to see athletes who are all blow-dried, who only care about their agents, who all tailor their image to get the maximum endorsements," Rendell said. "They're all sort of like business people. So it's great to see guys who are more like old-time ballplayers." Advertisement So it was that Rendell got no arguments, only praise, last week when he allowed the iron workers' union to put a giant red Phillies cap on top of the city's statue of William Penn, which sits atop Philadelphia's nine-story City Hall. Nothing, not even eradicating a $450 million deficit without raising taxes was such a hit, Rendell said. That the Phillies are beloved cannot be argued. Why it should matter to a public figure should not be ignored. Rendell has read into that love a safety net in which all of Philadelphia benefited. For Rendell, like every mayor knowing his city was sitting on the verge of a big celebration, also wondered what else it was sitting on in terms of anti-social over-exuberance. "But it was easy for both myself and the city to persuade the citizens of the city not to have any destruction after we won the pennant," he said. "Because we said, 'if you destroy property it's going to detract from the team's win.' And after all the trouble in Montreal, Chicago and Detroit, we went with one arrest and one broken window the entire night. It was awesome. And I'd like to think it was because of the team's feelings for the city." And the city's feelings for the team. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 19, 1993, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: ON BASEBALL: WORLD SERIES; Pass the Hoagies And Cheese Steaks.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »