Advertisement By MICHAEL MARTINEZ and  In the rafters high above the polished wooden floor at Pauley Pavilion, the national championship banners hang with a kind of regal aura, each linked inescapably with the past. But now, more than 16 years after the last one was raised, they are more like museum pieces, less like shadows stretching over teams of the present. Most alumni haven't forgotten the glory years of U.C.L.A. basketball, but they aren't so demanding anymore. Enough time has passed that the Bruins can usually please their fans and student body by simply qualifying for the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament, which they do almost annually. But this season, U.C.L.A. might regain a taste of the wonder years, if preseason magazines are any measure. At least 10 publications have placed the Bruins among the top 13 teams in the country, and one -- Basketball Weekly -- made them No. 1.  A Modest Coach "You enjoy the company because that's what you work for," Jim Harrick, who begins his fourth season as the Bruins' coach, said of the No. 1 ranking. "But we don't deserve it." Advertisement The Bruins will soon find out if he's right. U.C.L.A., which returns all five starters from a team that won 23 games last season, plays Indiana in the Tipoff Classic at Springfield, Mass., Friday night. The Hoosiers are typically ranked No. 2 behind Duke, the defending champion, in the same publications. Advertisement Although Harrick says he has attempted to play down the importance of the game to his players, most of them haven't listened. "It's a big game for us," said forward Tracy Murray, a junior. "We need to play a team like Indiana to give us confidence and belief that we can play with a strong team. If we win that game, it will set the tone for the season." Still Waiting for O'Bannon The Bruins have already been jolted once. Freshman Ed O'Bannon, who sat out last season after reconstructive surgery on his left knee, was expected to play a major role from the start. But swelling in his knee never subsided, and he underwent arthroscopic surgery earlier this month to remove tissue that had been causing inflammation. O'Bannon blames himself, saying that he tried to do too much too soon in his comeback, often running, lifting weights and then playing basketball on the same day. "Maybe I pushed myself," he said. "They didn't lean on me, but each day I played harder and harder, sometimes twice a day, rather than trying to do it gradually." Dr. Gerald Finerman, the U.C.L.A. team physician, said a determination on O'Bannon's return wouldn't be made for at least another month. "But if everything goes well," he said, "we're hoping that Ed can do a certain amount of playing in about six weeks. The fact he's such a fantastic athlete will be very helpful to him." The Bruins may do well in the interim, primarily because of their experience and offensive potential. Murray, a member of the United States team in the Pan American Games last summer, and 6-foot-10-inch senior Don MacLean, each averaged more than 20 points a game last season. The backcourt of Gerald Madkins and Darrick Martin also returns, and Mitchell Butler switches from forward to guard. 'Never Gone Out a Loser'  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. MacLean, who is expected to break Lew Alcindor's U.C.L.A. career scoring record of 2,325 points, briefly considered entering the National Basketball Association draft after last season. But he said he decided to return after the team was upset in the first round of the N.C.A.A. tournament by Penn State. Advertisement "I've never gone out a loser, and I didn't want to leave without fulfilling expectations," he said. "When you look at our team on paper, with all our experience, you've got to say we're a good team, around 5 or 6. Our goal is to get to the Final Four, without question." But getting back to the days of championships -- U.C.L.A. last won a Pacific-10 title in 1987 and hasn't advanced to the Final Four since 1980 -- may not be as routine as it was in the coaching days of John Wooden. "It's the 90's," said Harrick. "We have parity now, and when you get to the tournament, it's a turkey shoot with so many teams in there. The underdog steps up. I don't know that anybody could win 10 championships in 12 years like Coach Wooden did. Repeating is virtually impossible." Harrick is the first coach in school history to win 20 games and take his team into the post-season tournament in each of his first three years, but this season might be his most important. "I was excited when I saw that someone ranked us No. 1," Murray said. "I think most people are finally seeing the talent we have here, and maybe they're going to give us the respect we deserve. But I also think we have to back it up." What might be most important is that the Bruins, often factional last season, have already decided to carry a banner of their own: togetherness. A New Attitude Last year, MacLean said, some players were often more concerned with their own scoring totals than the final result. This year, there have already been two players-only meetings to air concerns. "We've had our little differences," MacLean said, "but we've addressed them right off the bat. We want to come into the season with a clean slate and make everybody focused and going in one direction." Which direction? "Barring injury," said Murray, "this team is good enough to win the national championship." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 15, 1991, on Page B00017 of the National edition with the headline: It Just Might Be Time For Another Banner In the U.C.L.A. Gym.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »