Advertisement By JOSEPH DURSO and  Horse racing has no Triple Crown winner this year because Strike the Gold won the Kentucky Derby but lost the Preakness and the Belmont Stakes to Hansel. It has no Triple Tiara winner for fillies, either, because Meadow Star won the Acorn and the Mother Goose but lost the Coaching Club American Oaks to Lite Light. But one horse still has a shot at a "triple" in a sport that lavishes honor and fame on horses that can win three races in a series. He is the handicap star In Excess, who won the Metropolitan Handicap at Belmont Park on May 27 and then broke the track record for a mile and a quarter in winning the Suburban on July 4. Now, he is one race away: the Whitney Handicap, a Grade I classic that will be run for the 64th time Saturday here at Saratoga Race Course. The distance is a mile and an eighth, the purse is $250,000 and the favorite is In Excess, the Irish-bred son of Siberian Express and the only horse with a shot at New York's "triple," an unoffical series that for years included the Brooklyn Handicap. The Brooklyn is now run in November, and the Whitney has taken its place in the series. "I don't know how much speed there will be in the race," said Bruce Jackson, trainer of In Excess. "But if they run with us, they'll have their problems. And this is probably his best distance." Advertisement In the Suburban, running a furlong farther than his preferred distance, In Excess zipped the mile and a quarter in 1:581/5 , wiping out the Belmont track record and coming within two-fifths of a second of matching the American dirt record set a dozen years earlier by Spectacular Bid. Advertisement In Excess made his mark in New York by way of California, his home base. He also aimed for the New York classics instead of joining Farma Way, Jolie's Halo and Summer Squall in the new handicap tournament for older horses, the American Championship Racing Series. "But if things go well, he could end up back in the series," Jackson said. "Then the Breeders' Cup would be his goal, either the mile on the turf or the Classic. He's versatile, and he has a lot of speed."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Some familiar faces will be on the track here chasing In Excess, as they did in the first two races, notably Chief Honcho and Killer Diller, who finished second and third in the Suburban, and Silver Survivor, who ran seventh in the Metropolitan Mile. Kid Russell Wins In the featured stakes race this afternoon, the eighth day of 30 in the expanded season at Saratoga, it looked like a wire-to-wire coup by Angel Cordero Jr. aboard Mr. Nasty. But in the final strides of the six-furlong sprint, Mr. Nasty was collared and outrun by three-quarters of a length by Kid Russell, trained for the Hobeau Farm by Allen Jerkens and ridden by Rafael Mojica Jr. They ran a quarter-mile in 211/5 seconds and half a mile in 433/5 seconds, and finished the three-quarters in 1:092/5 . Kid Russell, who ran in seven claiming races in a row (and won two of them) during one stretch this year, won for the third straight time and returned $10 for $2 to win. The favorite, Diablo, who had won five of his last six starts, ran six furlongs in 1:081/5 last month at Belmont but got lost in the crowd this time and finished fifth in the field of eight. The victory was the first in a stakes race for Mojica, a 21-year-old rider from Puerto Rico, who said later: "The Saratoga meeting is very tough. But I used my head, and waited and waited." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 3, 1991, on Page 1001029 of the National edition with the headline: HORSE RACING; A Special Opportunity for In Excess.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »