Advertisement  Devils 1, Nordiques 1 Two of the National Hockey League's best young goaltenders got to shine last night in Quebec before fans from their hometown area. Jocelyn Thibault, the Nordiques' 18-year-old rookie goaltender, made 33 saves in Quebec's 1-1 tie with the Devils. New Jersey's Martin Brodeur of the Devils, who is 21, saved 25 shots. "I thought it was great for the people here to have the two of us play against each other," Brodeur said. Brodeur, who like Thibault is a product of the Quebec Major Junior League, made good saves against Martin Gelinas, Joe Sakic and Mats Sundin. Advertisement Bruce Driver scored on a low shot from the point at 12 minutes 38 seconds of the third period to give New Jersey the tie. Advertisement Gelinas put Quebec ahead at 14:42 of the second period off a pass from Sakic. Gelinas took a feed at the inner edge of the left circle and redirected the puck past a crouched Brodeur about waist-high on his left side. It was Gelinas's fifth goal and second in as many games. Driver's tying shot appeared to be going wide but hit a player in front of the net and deflected past Thibault. Bobby Holik was about to lift a shot over the fallen Thibault in the second period only to have the goaltender thrust his pads in the air to block it. "I played that shot poorly," Thibault said. "I committed myself too soon and went down too quickly. I was lucky to make the save, but some nights are like that." Whalers 2, Panthers 1 Robert Kron scored with 3:54 remaining in overtime to give Coach Pierre McGuire his first National Hockey League victory as Hartford beat the Florida Panthers in Miami. McGuire, a longtime assistant, lost his first three games after taking over from Paul Holmgren on Nov. 16. Holmgren decided to concentrate solely on his role as general manager.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Geoff Sanderson also scored for the Whalers, who stopped a four-game losing streak. Mike Hough scored for Florida, which was 0 for 8 on power-play opportunities. Jeff Reese, obtained by Hartford from Calgary on Nov. 19, stopped 21 of 22 shots. Florida goaltender John Vanbiesbrouck stopped 26 of 28 shots, including Kron on a partial breakaway 12 minutes into the first period. Vanbiesbrouck also stopped Pat Verbeek on a breakaway during a power play. Advertisement Florida, already missing two defensemen coming in, lost two more. Joe Cirella fractured his right cheekbone in the second period when he was hit by a puck. Brent Severyn sustained an eye abrasion during pregame warmups. Defenseman Brian Benning sat out the last game of a four-game suspension, and Keith Brown missed the game because of a knee injury. Hough gave Florida a 1-0 lead with 3:28 left in the first period, beating Reese on a breakaway. Sanderson tied the score with a power-play goal at 4:47 of the second, bouncing a shot off a defender. Sharks 6, Red Wings 4 Rob Gaudreau, sandwiched between two defenders with his back to the net, scored the tie-breaking goal while falling to his knees with 7 minutes 33 remaining in the game to lead San Jose at home. San Jose is 8-5-3 after starting the season 0-8-1. The Sharks didn't register 20 points last season until their 66th game on March 2. Gaudreau's fourth goal gave the Sharks their first lead of the game and their first victory over Detroit. The Red Wings were 6-0-1 the last two seasons against San Jose. Detroit goaltender Tim Cheveldae was drawn out of the net by Gaudreau, who was then pinned from behind by Detroit's Martin Lapointe. He managed to maintain his balance and slide the puck past both players. Sandis Ozolinsh scored his second goal of the game into an empty net with 48 seconds to play. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 24, 1993, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Driver's Shot From the Point Earns a Point for the Devils.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »