Advertisement By JOE SEXTON "A different dynamic." That's what Frank Cashen promised at the start of the season. The general manager of the Mets didn't anticipate that he would get a different one about every other week. The Mets, who started the season by beating up on the Expos and the Phillies, teams without punch or pitching and often bereft of both, ended the first half doing the same thing. In the interim, the 46-34 Mets played a reasonably respectable, numbingly unspectacular brand of baseball, compiling no better than a 12-18 record against teams that finished the opening half of the season with a record above .500. "You can't, though, so dissect wins that you discount them," said Dave Magadan, the first baseman. Perhaps. But any even polite dissection of the first 80 games of the season would have to conclude that the most striking aspect of it was the dubious effort of the supposedly dominant pitching. Dwight Gooden and Frank Viola went six weeks without posting consecutive triumphs. Gooden's travails, of course, went beyond not recording victories, for there were stretches when obtaining an out was a major undertaking. David Cone flirted with greatness, but was still too often consumed with distractions. Ron Darling was twice gone inside three innings, complaining of that most troubling of pitcher's ailments: stiffness in the neck from having had to turn it so often. And the opposition hit .280 against John Franco, the closer. Advertisement "We didn't come close to what we were capable of," said Viola. The Game The memory of the 4-3 defeat in Los Angeles on May 18 won't fade, and the fallout, buried for the moment beneath the current optimism, lies close to the surface throughout the clubhouse. Gregg Jefferies, scheduled to make his long-awaited switch back to second base from third, made two errors in the tragicomic eighth inning and was later found at his locker predicting with a sad paranoia a renewed campaign of sniping from his teammates and the news media. John Franco was charged with four unearned runs. Manager Bud Harrelson, having made an illogical and ill-fated double-switch at the start of the inning, was subjected to open second-guessing in his clubhouse. The only neat thing about the game was how completely and starkly it framed the season's central questions: *Can the Mets field well enough to sustain the level of play required to win the National League East? Advertisement *Can Franco, a closer who specializes in ground balls, thrive on a team of such suspect defensive skills? *Can Jefferies prosper in a clubhouse that is cool to him and in a city that doesn't hesitate to turn the heat up on its star athletes? *Just how great is Harrelson's acumen as a manager and just how bad is it to have a clubhouse so predisposed to wonder about its manager's grip on the game? The Hit Its aftershock is still sending enthusiasm and energy rippling through the team. Kevin McReynolds, in the midst of a six-week tear at the plate as the team's cleanup man, clocked a two-out ninth-inning grand slam against the Expos for an 8-5 victory that was the spark for the Mets' 11-2 streak to end the first half.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The hit was rich in rewards and symbolism. Gooden, who had given up five runs in a single inning earlier in the game in the latest chapter of his grimly ordinary season, was spared a defeat. The Mets, whose trademark quality over the last few seasons has been stranding base runners and thus forcing their fans to abandon hope, were spared a regrettable relapse. And McReynolds was forced to address a subject he finds as unpleasant to talk about as his own failure, namely his own success. He has hit .355 over his last 36 games and .293 for the season and has been the catalyst for the team's balanced offense of late. The Player "Howard Johnson has been as hot as I've seen a player," says Magadan. "Any player. Ever." The hyperbole is understandable because Johnson's ferocious offensive pace -- the third baseman has 19 homers and 63 r.b.i. -- and flair for the dramatic have been more than a bit beyond belief. As well, they have put him on a pace to shatter the franchise mark for r.b.i. in a season (Darryl Strawbbery's 1990 total of 108). He has kept Shea Stadium electric, kept opposing pitchers honest against McReynolds ahead of him and Hubie Brooks behind him, and kept the Mets in games they otherwise might have been blown out of.  The Problem The bullpen, the current topic of intrigue because of the shuffle that must go on with Sid Fernandez's return, will persist as the subject of most anxiety. The organization has yet to address its dire need for a legitimate left-hander and strikeout specialist. Jeff Innis has been a pleasant surprise and the possible reassignment of right-hander Wally Whitehurst could be a welcome addition. But of Alejandro Pena, who has struck out six in one appearance and been scorched for four runs in less than a full inning in another, there are doubts, and not only about his real age. And while there's plenty of faith in Franco, there's something ominous in his having allowed 33 hits in 27 1/3 innings. The Plus Rick Cerone, the veteran catcher who was acquired in part because the Mets had to pay only a smidgen of his salary, has become an instrumental figure in the clubhouse (he was the one who called the players meeting to address the Jefferies controversy in May) and an intellectual presence on the field. The pitchers, who to a man rave about Cerone, have found themselves increasingly dependent on his defensive strengths and strategic thinking as they have all struggled to find their finest form. The Lock Advertisement Fernandez, the left-handed pitcher whose return to the rotation has been promoted by the organization as a great event and almost spiritual experience, will not have a .500 record by the end of the season. Fernandez, whose confidence can be as much of a problem as his weight, will be a fragile project and not one of the factors that forge a championship. The Question The Manager. Harrelson, who conceded he had been too doctrinaire in his allegiance to baseball orthodoxy last season, has been an erratic steward for the Mets thus far. He shoved a player in the dugout and in front of a television audience, he swore off a radio show because the questions were "too negative," he removed himself altogether from the thorniest clubhouse controversy when the Jefferies saga had produced an open letter and nearly open warfare, and he professed ignorance of the popular perception that Doc Edwards, the dugout coach, was the brains of the outfit. He has, at least, demonstrated flexibility, installing Jefferies as the No. 2 man in the order and switching Brooks and McReynolds in the outfield. His recent experiment of placing Kevin Elster second in the order only confirms his ability to baffle. The scrutiny will only get more magnified as the fight for first formalizes. The Prediction Dwight Gooden won't recover from his troubles on the mound, the Mets won't be able to recover from some of the defensive disasters that are in their future, the front office won't make the daring move that will be required of it and the Mets won't be doing anything beyond September. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 11, 1991, on Page B00009 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Mets Searching for Stability in Pitching and Defense to Stay in Race.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »