Advertisement By JOSEPH DURSO In a race run remarkably true to form, the Irish-bred colt In Excess swept past an all-star field at Belmont Park yesterday to defeat Farma Way and Festin in the $500,000 Woodward Stakes. He won his fourth major stakes in a row and took a giant stride toward the season's ultimate prize: the Horse of the Year award. His jockey, Gary Stevens, reflected on the horse's late surge to success this year and said, "Right now, we're looking at the Breeders' Cup Classic, and I wouldn't trade places with anybody." In Excess was chased, but not caught, by a small herd of five celebrities that included the Kentucky Derby winner, Strike the Gold, who finished fourth in his first joust with older horses. But mostly he was chased by the two West Coast horses running the trumpeted "race within the race," and that one also followed the script. It was the race for the $750,000 bonus for the horse scoring the most points in the 10 handicap events booked as the American Championship Racing Series. The Woodward was the 10th and last in the series, and Farma Way and Festin were tied for the lead at 40 points apiece as they left the gate. And when they crossed the line, Farma Way was trailing In Excess by 1 3/4 lengths, but was leading Festin by a length and one-quarter. Advertisement D. Wayne Lukas, who entered Farma Way in 8 of the 10 races had mixed emotions on losing the race but winning the bonus. Regardless, Farma Way won the series bonus of $750,000 in addition to $110,000 for running second in the Woodward. And Festin took the second prize of $375,000 in the series plus $60,000 for running third in the Woodward. Advertisement At those rates, they both took home more money than In Excess, who earned $300,000 for winning the Woodward but who ran only twice in the 10-race series. But, on an overcast afternoon with a surprisingly strong crowd of 28,842 watching and with all kinds of prize money bestowed on the horses, there was no doubt that the star of the show was In Excess. He is a 4-year-old colt owned by Jack J. Munari, a real-estate developer from California, and trained by Bruce Jackson. And he has taken some heat from rival trainers for distancing himself from in the handicap series. He ran fourth behind Farma Way and Festin last March in the Santa Anita Handicap, then skipped the rest of the series until yesterday.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Meanwhile, In Excess scored commanding victories by sweeping the "handicap triple" in New York: the Metropolitan Mile in May, the Suburban in July and the Whitney in August. He kept on sweeping yesterday in the Woodward, and became the only horse in history to win all four stakes races in one year except for the legendary Kelso, who did it in 1961. In Excess ran a textbook race, too. He started in third place while Jolie's Halo predictably took the early lead in a brief speed duel with Farma Way. Then In Excess passed Farma Way after half a mile, passed Jolie's Halo after three-quarters and held off everybody down the stretch. Everybody seemed to run a respectable race, especially Strike the Gold, who was being steered by his third jockey in three races. Chris Antley was replaced last month by Angel Cordero Jr., and Pat Valenzuela flew from California overnight to replace Cordero, who was in the hospital taking tests for a viral infection. Everybody also ran a snappy race. In Excess covered the mile and an eighth in 1:46 1/5 , returned $4 for $2 to win as the even-money favorite and nudged his career record to 11 victories in 18 starts.  FINISH LINE Strike the Gold now has a five-race losing streak since the Derby. But his trainer, NICK ZITO, won a consolation prize when his 2-year-old colt Agincourt, at 19-1, took the 102d running of the Futurity. He outran Tri To Watch by a length, with Pine Bluff third and WAYNE LUKAS's speedball favorite, Salt Lake, finishing fifth. Agincourt covered the seven furlongs in 1:234/5 and paid $41.80 for $2 to win. "This helps," Zito said. "Strike the Gold? He tried. We'll try again."  Dance Smartly Wins TORONTO, Sept. 15 (AP) -- Dance Smartly, winner of the Canadian Triple Crown, outdueled Shudanz in the stretch today to capture the Molson Export Million. The 6-5 favorite, Fly So Free, finished fourth. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 16, 1991, on Page C00002 of the National edition with the headline: HORSE RACING; In Excess Outperforms Other Woodward Stars.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »