Advertisement  AP Bobby Bonilla drove in four runs with a homer and a double as the Pittsburgh Pirates beat the slumping Houston Astros, 8-1, tonight for their 12th victory in 15 games. But the victory may have been costly for Pittsburgh, as starter Bob Walk had to leave the game in the second inning when he strained his right hamstring while scoring a run. Houston has lost six games in a row, to equal its longest losing streak of the season, and 11 of its last 13. Neal Heaton (2-1) was the winner in relief of Walk. Heaton pitched four and two-thirds innings, giving up one run on three hits, and Bill Landrum finished. Braves, 6, Cubs 2 Advertisement CHICAGO (AP) -- Steve Avery allowed five hits over eight and a third innings for his third consecutive victory as Atlanta defeated Chicago for its 10th victory in 14 games since the All-Star Game break. Advertisement Avery (11-5) has allowed just nine hits over his last three starts, all victories. He struck out four and walked four before Andre Dawson's two-run homer in the ninth inning, his 16th. The Braves scored three runs in the second against Frank Castillo (3-1), who lost for the first time in the major leagues. Cardinals 5, Reds 1 ST. LOUIS (AP) -- Bob Tewksbury pitched an eight-hitter as St. Louis beat Cincinnati, sending the Reds to their 14th loss in their last 16 games. The defeat dropped the defending World Series champions two games below .500, equaling the team's low point of the season. Cincinnati was last two games under .500 on April 15, at 2-4. Todd Zeile had three hits and two r.b.i., including a double and a triple, and Ozzie Smith had two hits and scored once for St. Louis. The Cardinals have won 8 of 10 games since dropping four in a row to Atlanta following the All-Star Game break. Tewksbury, who was without a victory in his previous five starts, improved to 7-6, while Chris Hammond (7-7) took the loss. Twins 6, Brewers 3 MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -- Dan Gladden's three-run double in the eighth inning lifted Minnesota over Milwaukee. The Brewers' loss was their fifth in a row. Advertisement The Twins built their winning rally with a leadoff single by Mike Pagliarulo, a sacrifice and a throwing error by reliever Darren Holmes and another sacrifice by Al Newman, who was safe at first to load the bases.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Gladden then followed with the double to make a winner of Twins starter Kevin Tapani (7-7). Minnesota also had a third sacrifice in the inning to tie an American League record held by three other teams. Mariners 7, Indians 4 CLEVELAND (AP) -- Alonzo Powell hit a two-run homer in the second inning and Seattle scored four runs on five consecutive hits in the third for the Mariners' 11th victory in 15 games since the All-Star Game break. Seattle is 9-1 against Cleveland this season. Rich DeLucia (9-6) got the victory despite allowing four runs and five hits in five innings. Bill Swift pitched three scoreless innings, allowing two hits, and Mike Schooler pitched a hitless ninth for his first save. Blue Jays 6, Royals 5 TORONTO (AP) -- Third baseman Kevin Seitzer's error with the bases loaded in the 11th helped Toronto defeat Kansas City in front of 50,326, the largest crowd in Blue Jays history. Devon White started the inning with his third hit of the game, a line single to right. Roberto Alomar sacrificed White to second and loser Tom Gordon (5-9) walked Joe Carter intentionally and John Olerud unintentionally to load the bases for Kelly Gruber. Seitzer, a late-inning replacement at third, couldn't handle Gruber's run-scoring grounder as White crossed with the winning run. Athletics 12, Orioles 9 BALTIMORE (AP) -- Oakland squandered a six-run lead, then got the tie-breaking run in the ninth inning on Mark McGwire's grounder to beat Baltimore. Terry Steinbach had three r.b.i., and the last of his four hits helped set up the winning run. After Harold Baines drew a one-out walk, Steinbach singled pinch-runner Scott Hemond to third. Advertisement Gregg Olson replaced Mark Williamson (3-4) and forced McGwire to hit a grounder to the mound. But Olson threw wildly to second, allowing Hemond to score, and Mike Gallego followed with a two-run single. Tigers 3, Rangers 2 ARLINGTON, Texas (AP) -- Scott Livingstone, playing in his first pro game in his home town, singled home the winning run in the 10th off Jeff Russell to give Detroit a victory over error-plagued Texas. Tony Phillips led off the 10th with a sinking liner to center that Gary Pettis dropped for a two-base error. On the second pitch to Livingstone, catcher Ivan Rodriguez fired a pickoff throw but the ball went into center field before shortstop Mario Diaz could get to the bag, and Phillips advanced to third on Rodriguez's second error of the game. Livingstone slapped a 1-1 pitch to left to score the run and make a winner of Mike Henneman (8-2), the fifth Detroit pitcher. Russell (3-3) took the loss. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 27, 1991, on Page 1001030 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Pirates Keep Rolling Along, But Walk Comes Up Lame.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »