Advertisement By ROBIN FINN Under a deadening film of humidity, and under fire for a deadly opening-day program that was nearly seed-free, the United States Open got off to an inauspicious beginning yesterday. Logical or not, United States Tennis Association officials maintained that their hands were tied because of tournament commitments preceding the Open made by many of the top players. The U.S.T.A. constructed an opening program that managed to be anticlimactic unto itself and was unanimously described as the worst schedule in memory by players, officials and fans alike. "The lines were so long on every match where there was a seeded player that we couldn't get in, and there was nothing else to see," said Irene West of Philadelphia, who was disappointed by her third Open opener. "We come to see the up-and-comings, the popular people and the old legends," said Barry Martin, a doctor who traveled from West Orange, N.J., and felt he encountered none of the above. Mix Doesn't Match Advertisement "The mix was not what we would have wanted," said Steve Devoe, the Open's tournament director, "but it was not done intentionally or through stupidity. There was no attractive men's match that we could have deferred from tomorrow to today. It's just a bad year." Advertisement Even when the day's only featured men's match concluded in the day's only upset, it did not come as a major surprise to anyone involved -- the deposed player, Petr Korda, has never passed the second round at the Open. Korda, at No. 9, was the highest-seeded male competitor on the day's ticket. "Obviously it's an upset because he's seeded and I'm not," said Wayne Ferreira of South Africa, an Open quarterfinalist last year and currently ranked 19th. "But I don't feel it's the upset that it looks on paper. He didn't hit any serves hard at all." Fifteen double-faults rendered Korda's 7-6 (7-2), 4-6, 7-6 (9-7), 3-6, 6-2 loss to Ferreira nearly inevitable. After the 3-hour-29-minute ordeal, Korda could hardly wait to escape the Stadium Court he later criticized as being "dangerous" because of the intrusive wall of advertising on its sidelines. But the signage that bothered his depth perception wasn't the main problem experienced by Korda, whose Open resume dropped to 1-5. "I couldn't serve today," he said, tortured by the double-fault that sabotaged his chance to claim the third-set tie breaker. "I mean, I should have beaten him in straight sets." Special Appearances The only semblance of tension, or of high-profile entertainment, was provided in cameo appearances by two players who aren't even competing this year. Miracle man Jimmy Connors, who will not have a chance to turn 41 in geriatric glory on the Stadium Court, was on hand instead to shill for his new sneaker company. Connors may no longer want to subject himself to the kamikaze brand of tennis played on these hard courts, but he doesn't mind endorsing it instead of mounting a 23d Open campaign. While Connors was the morning's main attraction, high noon belonged to the injured Monica Seles. She has chosen this week to come out of seclusion following the April 30 stabbing that eventually cost her the No. 1 ranking. She held a news conference that attracted more coverage than any of the action out on the courts.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. According to Seles, who along with Stefan Edberg was aiming for a third consecutive Open title, the Women's Tennis Association was remiss in its decision to leave her ranking unprotected for the duration of her rehabilitation. But Gerard Smith of the W.T.A. reiterated that no matter how unsympathetic it may make the players appear to be to her plight, Seles's ranking could not be frozen. Advertisement "The easiest thing for us to do publicity-wise is to roll over and give her the ranking," said Smith, the W.T.A.'s top administrator, "but we're not going to do it. We want to find a way to be sympathetic without impinging on the ranking system." Meanwhile, out in the heat of the sports arena, Steffi Graf and Martina Navratilova, the only glamourous touches to an otherwise yeomanlike schedule, both breezed through their first-round matches. Graf, who is top-ranked and privately furious after being publicly chastised by Seles for not taking a greater interest in her infirmity, pounded Robin White, 6-3, 6-0. Unbeaten Since May Since May, Graf has embarked on a five-tournament tear, and if she prevails here can capture her third Grand Slam of 1993. Graf regained the No. 1 ranking during the French Open. Graf has expressed her distress over Seles's absence, particularly because the German attacker claimed to be acting on her behalf to restore her to the No. 1 spot. The Kraft Tour is "boring" without Seles, Graf said last spring when the Seles was absent two months because of a virus. But the German does not believe she, or any other player, should be held responsible for the organization's decision not to protect Seles, who is currently ranked second in the world and presumably will not fall from the top 10 even if she doesn't return before 1994. "You've got to understand, all of us have to play all year long, struggle through injuries, through our problems and through tough matches and tough tournaments," said Graf. Navratilova, recently elected vice president of the W.T.A., agreed. "You can't just keep somebody No. 1 forever," said the 36-year-old Navratilova, who ousted Gloria Pizzichini of Italy, 6-0, 6-1. According to Smith, Seles could possibly be co-seeded No. 1 when she begins her comeback. But he said the ranking itself is something she'll have to earn. "It galls me unbelievably that the man who stabbed her got the result he wanted," Smith said, "and if I were in Monica's shoes I'd probably find our position difficult to understand. But any adjustment to the ranking would be inappropriate and unfair to the 999 other players we have ranked purely on the basis of the points they earn every time they step on a court."  MATCH POINTS Advertisement The prettiest shot of the day was AARON KRICKSTEIN's leap into the petunia patch on the Grandstand's sidelines as he executed the running forehand down the line that won him the second-set tie breaker in his 3-6, 7-6 (9-7), 6-4, 6-1 defeat of Italy's GIANLUCA POZZI. Krickstein had already saved one set point and was thrilled to avoid a two-sets-to-none deficit. "It's not that I couldn't have done it if I was down two sets to love, but I think, psychologically, hitting a shot like that is a big boost," he said. . . . On Stadium Court last night, fourth-seeded CONCHITA MARTINEZ of Spain defeated SANDRINE TESTUD of France, 6-2, 6-3. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 31, 1993, on Page B00007 of the National edition with the headline: U.S. OPEN '93; A Lukewarm Opening Day For Tennis's Hottest Ticket.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »