Advertisement By MICHAEL MARTINEZ and  Baseball's grandest rivalries barely flicker now. Somewhere, they vanished. The Dodgers and the Giants, whose rivalry included arguably the sport's greatest moment -- Bobby Thomson's pennant-winning home run in 1951 -- once wore their disdain for each other like a prideful badge. But they seem to have lost it. Same with the Yankees and the Red Sox. Gone. "Now, you see guys standing at the batting cages with their arms around each other," said Roger Craig, the former Brooklyn and Los Angeles Dodger pitcher who now manages San Francisco. "In the old days, you wouldn't even speak to those guys. And if you had to fight them, you'd fight them." But the sport's evolution, in a sweeping change that seemed to cover the distance between the Polo Grounds and Candlestick Park left the rivalry behind. Except in the stands, where it's as if time has stood still. Perhaps that's why the Dodgers must surely view the final two weeks of the 1991 season as an uncertain venture, even though on Sunday they are finishing their last series with the Atlanta Braves, the team they are battling for the division title. Of the Dodgers' 11 remaining regular-season games, 6 are with the Giants, and the last 3 of those are at cold, blustery Candlestick Park. Did someone say rivalry? The Giants' fans believe it still exists. "If I were a Dodger player," said onetime Giant Joe Morgan, "I would not be looking forward to going up there, because there is a rivalry as far as the fans are concerned. I'd rather have it locked up by then." Advertisement This is how important those games have become: *Will Clark, the Giants' first baseman, has said he will rest his sore right knee to save himself for the Dodgers. Advertisement *The Braves, the team battling the Dodgers for the National League West title, have offered to ship in 50,000 foam-rubber tomahawks for the Giants to hand out to their fans. The Giants are thinking about it. *When the Giants were beating the Braves last week at Candlestick, the night's loudest ovation came when the scoreboard flashed the Dodgers' score. Naturally, they were losing. "You know what people say to me now?" Craig said. "They say, 'All I ask is that you beat the Dodgers.' " None of this, however, has rubbed off on the players, who are no longer tied to one team as in the past. To them, the rivalries that once existed no longer have meaning. "There's nobody around who could create a rivalry," said Don Drysdale, the Hall of Fame pitcher who is arguably the most hated Dodger of them all. "The only true allegiance they have is to the treasurer of the ball club." Meet the Spoilers Today's Giants harbor no outward animosity for the Dodgers. They simply view themselves as spoilers. "My only reason for wanting to beat them is to knock them out of the race," said outfielder Kevin Bass, who was born and reared in Redwood City, south of San Francisco. "If we can't win the division, our role is to keep them from winning it. It's nothing personal." Clark said, "Having the kind of season we've had, we just want to win." But they are not immune to the fervor that drives the fans. Advertisement "It was real obvious to me, ever since I was a rookie in 1986," Clark recalled the other day. "The Dodgers came in, and there were fights in the stands. People were throwing apples and oranges and bottles at Kirk Gibson." Don Sutton, a former Dodger, remembered making the long walk from the dugout to the visitors' clubhouse at Candlestick once with his son Daron by his side. Suddenly, a can of beer flew from the stands, missing Daron by inches.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "I think, by and large, a number of the fans didn't just want to beat you," said Sutton, now a broadcaster for the Braves. "They genuinely wished you harm. But it was always a great place to want to beat them because you had to listen to all their taunts and barbs. I wouldn't dignify those people by calling them blue collar. A lot of them carried it too far." No greater moment exists for Giants fans than the Miracle of Coogan's Bluff: Bobby Thomson's home run against the Dodgers in the third playoff game 40 years ago, which sent the Giants into the World Series. But to some, Joe Morgan's homer in 1982 is a distant second. 'The Fans Erupted' Morgan, then on the downside of his brilliant career, homered off Dodger pitcher Terry Forster at Candlestick on the final day of the season to beat Los Angeles and prevent it from tying the Braves -- who had lost earlier in the day at San Diego -- for first place. A playoff game would have been played in Los Angeles the next day. "The fans erupted," Morgan said in recollection. "It was like we won the World Series. But I didn't hate the Dodgers. I just felt they were kind of Hollywood." Dodger fans, who treat the Giants as more of a nuisance than a rival, will never forget the 1965 game in which San Francisco pitcher Juan Marichal struck Los Angeles catcher John Roseboro on the head with a bat, setting off a brawl that angered fans from both cities. "I was in right field at the time," said Ron Fairly, who had been knocked down by a Marichal pitch the previous inning. "Sandy Koufax threw a pitch that was a ball, and I looked down. The next thing I heard was a roar from the stands, and when I looked up, guys were all piled up." The rivalry? "That incident," Fairly said, "kept everything in line." He also said this of the Giants: "I didn't like them. I loved to beat them, because if we did, it usually meant we had a chance to finish higher in the standings. But I think a lot of it was a jealousy they had with L.A. that stemmed from the fact we won a lot." Detecting the Arrogance Advertisement Some of that exists everywhere. "When I was a player, there was always a rivalry with the good teams," said Dusty Baker, now the Giants' hitting coach, who spent parts of his 15-year career with the Dodgers, the Braves, the Giants and the Oakland A's. "Nobody liked the Dodgers. I always said that if you lined up 10 kids in front of me, I could pick the one who was in the Dodger organization. He had the clean haircut, the good body and the arrogance. Nobody liked them because of that, and because of those pearl-white uniforms." As rivalries go, the Dodger-Giant games sometimes brought out the ugliest in everyone, from players to fans. But on the field, it's virtually gone now. "You look down there, and it's like a high school reunion," Drysdale said. "But it wasn't that way in the past. "We'd go to the Polo Grounds, and you knew you were in for a tough time. The players still remembered that when we came out to the Coast. But it's gone by the wayside." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 22, 1991, on Page 8008001 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Begging Your Pardon, But Aren't We Rivals?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »