Advertisement By JOE SEXTON and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES The Mets, conceding that they ran the enormous risk of losing their marquee player and facing a severe public backlash next fall, said today that they had broken off contract negotiations with Darryl Strawberry because of a ''huge gulf'' and would not resume them until the end of the season. Strawberry, contending that he was deeply disappointed but not personally offended, said the development all but guaranteed that he would file for free agency in October. The Mets said they had spoken substantively just once with their star right fielder's agent, Eric Goldschmidt, in the nearly three weeks since they requested that contract talks formally reopen. The Mets maintained, though, that the lone conversation was enough to convince them that there were radical differences over both the length of the pact and the salary figures. Advertisement No Dragging Along ''This is not done lightly,'' said Al Harazin, a senior vice president of the Mets. ''And it's not our first preference. But we weren't going to let it drag out.'' Advertisement The 28-year-old Strawberry is in the midst of one of the most brilliant stretches of offensive productivity in his eight years in the major leagues. Strawberry began tonight's game against Cincinnati with 22 home runs and a batting average of .304. He has driven in 57 runs - 44 in his last 42 games - and is among the National League's leaders in a number of offensive categories. ''I'm going to have to file for free agency,'' Strawberry said. ''They wanted to give me a three-year deal and I'm not interested. It's a choice they made for themselves.'' Harazin did not disguise the fact that the organization was braced for a fallout of negative publicity and that losing Strawberry could be a decision the Mets very well could come to regret. But he said the decision to break off negotiations was made in the interests of the team, which he felt stood to be distracted by prolonged speculation about Strawberry's future. Aggressive Intentions Harazin stressed that the Mets would still aggressively pursue Strawberry immediately upon the conclusion of the season. He also maintained that the organization had no plans whatsoever to trade the man with 227 career home runs.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ''We're interested in winning a championship,'' Harazin said. ''And he's going to help us win that championship. We'll ultimately make our best offer under whatever circumstances prevail.'' One circumstance that will not change by October is Jose Canseco's contract. Canseco, the right fielder for the Oakland Athletics and a star of comparable magnitude with Strawberry, signed a five-year contract worth $23.5 million on June 27. In addition to establishing a record for major league baseball, the contract also evidently set an attractive sight for Strawberry, who is in the sixth year of a deal that this year pays him $1.8 million, barely among the top half-dozen highest salaries on the Mets. Can You Top This?  ''We have no interest in topping records,'' Harazin said. ''We like to pay a very good player very good money. There's a tendency to think the top contract is the market. I don't think it is. I see a lot of people with very different contracts in the market. ''It's not about being able to afford it; it's about it being a sound business decision.'' The decision left Strawberry with mixed emotions. He said he wanted to remain in New York, but he also appeared intrigued with the idea of taking his assets into the marketplace. Advertisement ''It's a real letdown that it had to come to this point,'' he said. ''But now I'll most definitely hear what other teams have to offer.'' Still, Strawberry said he thought he had been toyed with a bit and he accused the Mets of a certain disingenuousness in opening talks and then halting them so abruptly. ''I think it's more them playing games than anything,'' he said. ''And why do that? I have a job to do.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 14, 1990, on Page 1001041 of the National edition with the headline: Mets Tell Strawberry Contract Talks Are Off.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »