Advertisement  AP Bob Welch won his 20th game of the season faster than anyone since 1973, leading the Oakland Athletics over the Baltimore Orioles tonight, 8-3. Welch (20-4) gave up three runs on nine hits in eight innings. He became a 20-game winner for the first time in his 12-year career, having never won more than 17 games in a season before this year. Welch reached the 20-victory mark faster than any pitcher since Wilbur Wood, who did it on July 29, 1973. Welch has won four decisions in a row and is the sixth Oakland pitcher ever to win 20 games. A three-run homer by Mark McGwire highlighted a seven-run fifth inning as Oakland won for the 12th time in 15 games in August. Every starter got at least one hit for the Athletics. Advertisement Welch got all the support he needed when the Athletics sent 12 batters to the plate in the fifth against John Mitchell (5-5) and Curt Schilling. Advertisement Angels 1, Red Sox 0 BOSTON (AP) - Chuck Finley outdueled Mike Boddicker with a four-hitter and Johnny Ray singled home an unearned run in the ninth inning for California. Both pitchers hurled complete games: the fifth of the season for Finley, the third for Boddicker. Rangers 1, White Sox 0; White Sox 4, Rangers 2 ARLINGTON, Tex. (AP) - A 13th-inning single by Ruben Sierra drove in the winning run as Texas won the first game of a doubleheader. In the second game, Carlton Fisk broke Johnny Bench's major league record for home runs by a catcher with his 328th. He hit a 2-1 pitch from Charlie Hough over the left-field wall for his 187th home run as a member of the White Sox, making him the team's career homer leader. Fisk had been tied with Harold Baines. In the first game, Nolan Ryan gave up only three hits, striking out 15 and walking none in 10 innings, but the victory went to Kenny Rogers (5-5). Blue Jays 5, Twins 1 MINNEAPOLIS (AP) - Dave Stieb held Minnesota to two hits in six shutout innings. Stieb (16-4) retired 17 of 18 batters in one stretch and gave up only a double by Nelson Liriano, in the first inning, and a single by Al Newman in the third. Tigers 3, Indians 0 DETROIT (AP) - Cecil Fielder drove in all three runs, two with his major league-leading 38th home run, and Jack Morris pitched a six-hitter. Brewers 2, Royals 1 MILWAUKEE (AP) - Teddy Higuera and two relievers combined on a five-hitter. In the first inning, George Brett hit his ninth homer of the season and the 276th of his career, moving him ahead of Roger Maris into 74th place on the career list.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Cubs 7, Braves 0 CHICAGO, (AP) - Shawon Dunston hit two two-run homers for Chicago, and Mike Harkey, a rookie, allowed three hits in his first major league shutout. At one point he retired 15 batters in a row. Harkey (12-5) also cooled off Dave Justice, the Atlanta rookie who hit a home run in 10 of his last 12 games. Today, Harkey kept Justice hitless in three times at bat. Pirates 7, Reds 1, Pirates 4, Reds 3 CINCINNATI (AP) - Jay Bell drove home the tie-breaking run with an eighth-inning single as the Pirates swept a doubleheader. They have swept all four of their doubleheaders this season. Advertisement In the opener, Mike York made an impressive major league debut, pitching seven shutout innings. He allowed six hits, all singles. York, 25 years old, was called up from Class AAA Buffalo to make a spot start because the regular staff was fatigued by three doubleheaders in the last 12 days. York also got a hit in his first time at bat, a soft single off Jose Rijo to right in the third inning. And he then scored the first run of the game when Wally Backman doubled to the gap in left-center. In the second game, Tom Browning gave up just four hits over seven innings. But three of those hits were homers: bases-empty shots by Bobby Bonilla, who extended his hitting streak to a career-high 17 games; Jeff King and Bell. Bonds also stole two bases, making him the first Pirate to hit 20 homers and steal 40 bases in a season. He has 23 homers and 40 steals. Cardinals 5, Astros 0 ST. LOUIS (AP) - Bob Tewksbury pitched a one-hitter for St. Louis, losing his bid for a perfect game on a leadoff double by Franklin Stubbs in the eighth inning. Stubbs was the only Houston batter to reach base Tewksbury (8-3) threw only 80 pitches in his second consecutive shutout. He was ahead in the count on almost every hitter, allowing only seven balls to be hit to the outfield through eight innings. He has not walked a batter in his last three starts, and has walked only one in his last five starts. Phillies 2, Padres 1 SAN DIEGO (AP) - Dale Murphy hit a home run Jose DeJesus pitched a winning six-hitter. Murphy has hit 24 home runs in San Diego, the most for a visiting player against the Padres. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 18, 1990, on Page 1001047 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL;   Welch Wins 20th, Beating Orioles.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »