Advertisement By ROBERT MCG. THOMAS JR. Ever wonder why your club pro has to stifle a chuckle whenever he sees a disgruntled duffer storming off the golf course cursing the water hazards that swallowed some of his best balls? That's because to many club pros those pretty little lakes, ponds and creeks aren't hazards at all. They're profit centers. In other words, every time a drive takes a dive into deep silt, chances are the pro stands to clean up. Retrieving and reselling errant golf balls is a big business, one that has spawned dozens of companies that make contracts with club pros to harvest lost balls. After being shipped to central processing plants to be cleaned, sorted and graded, the balls are often sent back to the very courses where they were lost and found in the first place. Some make repeated round trips.  ''We recover some of them over and over again,'' said Bob Meyer, an owner of Pangburn & Pangburn Inc. of Sycamore, Ill., which handles about 3 million balls a year. They are retrieved by two-member crews of divers who sometimes use huge company-owned disk rollers to pick up balls from the deep mud. Advertisement Such harvesters generally get 2 1/2 cents for each ball they retrieve, enough, Meyer says, so that a member of a crack crew in a high-producing area like resort-rich Arizona can make $30,000 for a six-month season.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Depending on the arrangement, pros who have concession control of their courses can get from 12 cents to 20 cents for each ball. Since Meyer's company will harvest as many as 100,000 balls a year from a high-producing course, pros can make as much as $20,000 from such arrangements. Advertisement According to Golf Shop Operations, a trade publication, the retail value of the used-ball business is at least $25 million a year. At a retail average of, say, 25 cents each, including discarded garbage balls and low-grade ''range balls,'' as well as pristine ''jar balls,'' which sell for as much as $1 each, that works out to some 96 million balls a year, or a third of the 288 million new balls sold in the United States each year. That works out to an average of 12 new balls and 4 formerly new balls for each of the 24 million Americans who play at least one round of golf a year. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 20, 1989, on Page C00002 of the National edition with the headline: SPORTS WORLD SPECIALS: GOLF; Diving for Dollars.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »