We continue a feature in which we bring Goal readers video of the best (and most important) goals (and some key plays) of the day in the  UEFA Champions League, courtesy of Fox Soccer. So if you did not get to see the game live, do not want to ferret out each individual video clip (some with advertising, some without) and do not want to wait for the nightly highlight shows, read on: 
In the marquee game of the second legs of the Round of 16 Real Madrid traveled to England to face Manchester United. In the day’s other game Borussia Dortmund hosted Shakhtar Donetsk Tuesday with berths in the quarterfinals on the line. 
Video: Ramos own goal gives Manchester United 1-0 lead
 Manchester United takes the lead early in the second half on an own goal by Sergio Ramos. 
Video: Nani sent off against Real Madrid
 Nani’s red card changed the game and probably cost Manchester United a spot in the semifinals. 
Video: Modric equalizes at Old Trafford
 Madrid’s second-half sub Luka Modric ties the score minutes after Nani’s banishment. 
Video: Ronaldo goal gives Real Madrid 2-1 lead
 Cristiano Ronaldo swoops in at the far post and seals the fate of his former team. 
Video: Santana header breaks deadlock in Dortmund
 Felipe Santana goes high for a corner kick to nod Dortmund into the lead in the 31st minute. 
Video: Gotze doubles Borussia Dortmund’s lead
 Mario Götze makes it 2-0 for the hosts. 
Video: Blaszczykowski goal seals Borussia Dortmund’s victory
 Jakub Blaszczykowski adds Dortmund’s final goal. Goal, The New York Times soccer blog, will report on news and features from the world of soccer and around the Web.  Times editors and reporters will follow international tournaments and provide analysis of games. There will be interviews with players, coaches and notable soccer fans, as well as a weekly blog column by Red Bulls forward Jozy Altidore.  Readers can discuss Major League Soccer, foreign leagues and other issues with fellow soccer fans.
	 
			The Goal blog’s regular features, including live match analysis, player ratings from key matches, reader discussion, news and notes and more, can now be found on the soccer section front.Read more… 
			Crystal Palace won promotion to England’s Premier League on Monday. Now the club must retool under Manager Ian Holloway if it is to avoid relegation next season.Read more… 
			When congress opens, FIFA will be dealing with issues from President Sepp Blatter’s possible run for another term to accusations of vote-rigging among executive committee members.Read more… 
			Sacha Kljestan, who just won his second straight Belgian title with Anderlecht, could have a role to play for the United States in its exhibition against Belgium on Wednesday.Read more… 
			Alonso Hernandez, who plays in Mexico for Monterrey but has never represented the United States at any level, will get a chance to earn a place on the Under-20 World Cup team.Read more… Follow Advertisement