Advertisement By JAIME DIAZ and  Everyone knows you have to make bushels of birdies to have a chance to win the Bob Hope Chrysler Classic, but Gene Sauers and Steve Elkington flew to the top of the leader board after the third round today by making eagles. Both Sauers and Elkington made eagle 3's on the par-5 6th and 11th holes at La Quinta Country Club in the third round. Sauers shot an eight-under-par 64 that gave him a 54-hole total of 18-under-par 198, while Elkington shot a 66 that left him one shot back. Another shot back was Kenny Perry, who had a 66 at Indian Wells Country Club, and three shots behind Sauers were John Cook, Neal Lancaster and Brian Claar. All the contenders were in agreement that scoring conditions on all four courses being used for this 90-hole event are as good as any the PGA Tour encounters. Advertisement "Conditions like this bring out the best in your game," said Cook, who shot an eight-under 63 at Bermuda Dunes to tie for the best round of the day. "The greens are cut so short there is no grain in them, so all you have to do is get the ball rolling on line. Every hole is a birdie hole." Advertisement Sauers's score is one stroke off the pace set last year by Mark O'Meara and Tim Simpson, when the winning score was a record 29 under par. "It's going to be tough to break that record," said Sauers, "but it's going to be somewhere around that area."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Sauers, a 29-year-old from Savannah who has two victories in eight years on the tour, said he had a poor day from tee to green but an exceptional one putting. He had only 25 putts, including a 60-foot eagle putt on the 533-yard 11th hole, a 25-foot eagle putt on the 521-yard 6th hole, and a 20-foot birdie putt on the 396-yard 18th hole. He said he had never before made two eagles in an official round. "I think I'll sleep with that putter tonight," said Sauers. Elkington's eagle putts were even longer. He made a 100-foot putt on the 11th hole, which he said was the longest he has ever made in competition, and a 20-foot putt on the sixth. "I'm on a roll, as everybody knows," said Elkington, who won the first tournament of the year last week at the Infiniti Tournament of Champions, "and I'm just trying to let it go and not get in the way." What a Foursome! On Saturday, Sauers and Elkington will play the Palmer Course at PGA West, which has been the most difficult over the first three rounds of the tournament, with an average score of even-par 72. Indian Wells, the easiest of the four courses, had an average score of just over 69. Arnold Palmer, who challenged for the first-round lead with a 66, had a two-under-par 70 on the course he designed at PGA West, for a three-round total of six-under-par 210. The 62-year-old Palmer will need a round in the 60s on Saturday to make the cut in the tournament he has won five times. John Daly, who had a 68 on the same course, is at 212. His foursome on Saturday will include former President Gerald R. Ford, Vice President Dan Quayle and Bob Hope. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 18, 1992, on Page 1001032 of the National edition with the headline: GOLF; Sauers and Elkington Soar With 2 Eagles Each.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »