Advertisement By STEVEN CRIST A rich son of Alydar won the $595,000 Metropolitan Handicap yesterday at Belmont Park, but it was not the millionaire that almost everyone expected. Criminal Type ran down Housebuster in the final strides to win the Met by a neck as Easy Goer finished 1 1/2 lengths back in third as the 2-5 favorite, the worst finish of his career. A season-high crowd of more than 32,139 spectators lined the walking ring and grandstand rail to cheer Easy Goer, but this was simply not the same colt who electrified the racing world last year, winning more than $4 million and six Grade I stakes races. Easy Goer yesterday had no punch in the stretch after a trouble-free trip. Faced with making up just three lengths on the leaders in the final quarter-mile, he was not up to the task. Winner's Stock Rises It was the first time in 19 months that any horse but Sunday Silence had beaten Easy Goer, and the first time in 19 career starts that the son of Alydar and Relaxing had finished worse than second. Advertisement As for Criminal Type, the 5-year-old son of Alydar and Klepto must now be considered the country's top horse. He won two handicaps in California earlier this year, beat a good field in the $1 million Pimlico Special on May 12, and yesterday ran down Housebuster, a 3-year-old who had won seven consecutive stakes races and might be the country's best sprinter of any age. Advertisement Criminal Type is owned by Calumet Farm and trained by D. Wayne Lukas, who completed a sweep of Belmont's holiday-weekend stakes yesterday after sending out Stella Madrid to win the Acorn on Saturday and Profit Key to win the Peter Pan on Sunday. Jose Santos rode all three winners. Criminal Type carried 120 pounds, 7 more than Housebuster and 7 fewer than Easy Goer, and ran the mile in 1:34.55, a solid but not outstanding time over a fast track that was producing average times. Criminal Type has won 8 of 21 career starts and has earned $1,661,177. Housebuster Game in Stretch Housebuster, the only 3-year-old in the field, led until the final 30 yards in his first career start against older horses. The son of Mt. Livermore did enjoy an unchallenged early lead, but held on very well through the stretch.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The question now is whether Easy Goer can regain his best form. This was only his second start of the year, whereas Criminal Type was making his eighth and Housebuster his seventh, but Easy Goer's best races of last year would have made him an easy winner yesterday. Last year, in his second start of the season, Easy Goer won the Gotham Stakes at Aqueduct with a track-record mile in 1:32 2/5. The colt has always had problematic ankles, and his handlers have had to work overtime on them this year. Rumors about the colt's soundness have swirled around the track for the last two weeks, but he silenced them by working an excellent five furlongs last Friday. His handlers went into the race expecting a top performance yesterday and were baffled by the outcome. ''He got flat outrun,'' said Shug McGaughey, his trainer, ''or he had a hard time getting going. I don't know. I expected him closer in contention.'' Kickless and Punchless Pat Day, the jockey, said: ''Really, I have no excuses. He really didn't have a kick. He didn't run to his capabilities. He gave me a little bit, but it wasn't that punch he is capable of.'' The only clue that Easy Goer might not fire his best shot came when the field was being loaded and the colt uncharacteristically balked at going into the gate. When it opened, though, he broke well, then settled back off the pace as Housebuster shot to the lead through fractions of 22.67 and 45.18. Easy Goer, sixth early, gradually advanced around the turn and moved into third place as Criminal Type took aim at the leader after six furlongs in 1:09.34. Easy Goer was 3 1/2 lengths back after six furlongs, still 3 1/2 lengths back after seven, and could make up only half of that ground in the final furlong as Criminal Type gradually wore down Housebuster. Advertisement McGaughey said after the race that his plan was still to bring Easy Goer back in the Suburban Handicap at Belmont on July 4, then run him against Sunday Silence in the Arlington Challenge at Arlington Park on Aug. 4. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 29, 1990, on Page D00019 of the National edition with the headline: Criminal Type Outruns Housebuster and Easy Goer at Belmont.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »