Advertisement By RICHARD SANDOMIR The All-Star Game tonight in Toronto should afford CBS Sports an evening's rest from criticism about weak baseball ratings and the hefty financial losses it has suffered from overpaying for Major League Baseball by a few hundred million dollars. The midseason classic is a prime-time showcase, a night of major stars, big ratings and tip-top advertising rates. Playing in the Skydome will allow the game to proceed unimpeded, unlike last year's game at Wrigley Field. That game resulted in the lowest prime-time rating (16.2) and the beaming down of outer space all-star William Shatner for a rain-delay episode of "Rescue: 911." It's also a rare night with no other baseball game in sight. Jack Buck, the CBS play-by-play announcer, said: "People refer to the glut of baseball on TV, with ESPN, the superstations and CBS, but we're the only one with the All-Star Game. I think it'll be a big wallop." Advertisement The All-Star Game is traditionally the highest-rated prime-time program during the rerun-drenched third quarter. Advertisement Over the last 10 years, the game's rating has usually been around 20 (each point represents 931,000 households) -- the kind of showing producers and network executives kill off key characters to manufacture. So despite the sickly advertising market, the game will give CBS a shot of cash adrenaline. Unlike the $20,000 per 30-second spot CBS is lucky to get on its occasional Saturday afternoon games, All-Star advertisers will pay from $225,000 to $300,000 a spot. Jon Mandel, a vice president of Grey Advertising, said, "Given the marketplace, this is fabulous." Neal Pilson, president of CBS Sports, declined to say if the happy fiscal business of the All-Star Game erases the unhappy financial performance of the rest of the season (and the red-inked memory of 1990's four-game World Series). Pilson's preferred subject was the look of his telecasts. "The All-Star Game is an opportunity to show how well we're doing in terms of the coverage and quality of our work," he said. CBS will try to add some zip to the broadcast with a camera peering down from the Skydome roof and microphones recording the salient, less-salty bon mots of Managers Lou Piniella and Tony La Russa as well as home-plate umpire Joe Brinkman.  Cameras will be in the two clubhouses before the game.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The highlight of the entire CBS package tonight may be Buck's talk with Joe DiMaggio and Ted Williams. The prime topic: the 1941 season when Williams hit .406 and DiMaggio hit in 56 consecutive games. Unfortunately, with only a 10-minute pre-game show, the interview will last for only five minutes. CBS's goal is to make the broadcast an entertainment event even if the game is the usual low-offense affair, the antithesis of basketball's all-offense All-Star Game. So does producer Ric LaCivita have any other flourishes planned? "We've asked Ken Griffey Jr. to slam dunk," he said. Advertisement Among baseball's former All-Stars are seven who broadcast Mets and Yankees games: Ralph Kiner, Tim McCarver and Rusty Staub for the Mets, and Tony Kubek, Phil Rizzuto, Tom Seaver and Bobby Murcer for the Yankees. "Before the 1950 game in Comiskey Park," Kiner recalled. "Warren Giles, the president of the National League, said to us, 'We're playing to win.' He was tired of the dominance of the American League. I played all 14 innings. Most of the starters did." In Kiner's first time at bat, he smacked a liner to left that was caught by Williams, who then crashed into the wall and broke his elbow. In the ninth, his home run tied the game until Red Schoendienst's 14th inning game-winning pinch-hit homer. Kiner homered in three consecutive All-Star Games. "At those games," Kiner said, "you're with guys you admire, but I come out of the whole thing thinking they're no different than you are. They put on their uniforms one leg at a time, just like you." When Kubek walked onto the Candlestick Park field early in the afternoon of July 11, 1961, the wind was dead. "Harvey Kuenn said to me, 'Wait another hour,' " Kubek said. "Like clockwork, the wind came over the hill. It knocked Stu Miller off the mound. Someone hit a ball high and in front of me, but the wind blew it over Dick Howser's head at third and I caught it in short left field. Aaron hit a ball to win the game that went through Hoyt Wilhelm's legs and I chased it as the wind took it to center." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 9, 1991, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL: TV SPORTS; By Shooting at Stars, CBS Aims for Ratings.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »