Advertisement By THOMAS GEORGE and  CHICAGO, Dec. 29 -- The Chicago Bears' offense took the football and drove all over Soldier Field today, but something ugly kept happening nearly every time it approached the Dallas goal line. The Cowboys might as well have posted a sign there that said, "Do Not Enter." The Bears obliged, anyway. Dallas won this wild-card National Conference playoff matchup, 17-13, because Chicago scored only a touchdown and a field goal on the four drives in which it got inside the Dallas 10-yard line. The Bears were stopped on downs at the 3 and at the 7 on their two other opportunities. Of their nine possessions in the game, the Bears reached Dallas territory seven times. Dallas had no such problems here this afternoon before 62,594 spectators, jumping to a 10-0 lead and setting the tone early and late with its stout goal-line stands. The victory was the Cowboys' first in the playoffs since 1982. Next Sunday, Dallas (12-5) will meet the Lions (12-4) in the Silverdome in Pontiac, Mich., and the winner will advance to the N.F.C. championship game. Chicago ended its season with an 11-6 record. "They did a little different defense at the goal line than we had seen," said the Bears' coach, Mike Ditka. "Things we thought could have worked did not work so well. Maybe we're a step away. Maybe we don't belong up there with the other teams. Blame me." Advertisement O.K. The Chicago play-calling, performed by Ditka and the offensive coach, Greg Landry, was effective in the middle of the field but not in close. At the goal line, Dallas opted for a scheme with six linemen, four linebackers and one defensive back. Ditka, Landry and the Chicago players never solved it. Advertisement "We hadn't used that defense since about five or six games ago against the Giants," said Dave Wannstedt, the Dallas defensive coordinator. "Our first concern was lining up with them shoe to shoe and stopping that running game. We wanted to establish an attitude, and first-and-10 was the key play of the day for us to do that. At the goal line, we used the 6-4-1 alignment and blitzed off it. "We blitzed more today than we had in the last three games combined. It was important for us to set the tempo and the idea that we were going to compete. There was no secret to it. We just used more beef at the goal line." When a team goes with more muscle, one way to answer it is with more quickness, more speed. "I'd like to have seen us use the four wideouts in that situation," said the Bears' Jim Harbaugh, who under steady pressure threw for 218 yards on 22-of-44 passing. "We did try to run, we tried to throw, we tried a lot down there at the goal line. But maybe we tried to ram it in too much."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. That's Bears football. The Cowboys made it their game. The Bears' defense did enough. After Ken Willis kicked a 27-yard field goal with 7 minutes 5 seconds left in the first quarter, a blocked Bears punt at the Chicago 9-yard line with 5:04 left in the quarter set up Emmitt Smith's 1-yard scoring run. Kevin Butler made a 19-yard field goal with 15 seconds left in the first half to cut the Dallas lead to 10-3. "We get the field goal to make it 10-6 early in the second half and they came back and had their one great drive of the day, the only drive where they just took the ball and punched it in," Bears safety Mark Carrier said of Dallas's 14-play, 75-yard drive, which was capped by Steve Beuerlein's 3-yard touchdown pass to tight end Jay Novacek. With 23 seconds left in the third quarter, that score gave Dallas a 17-6 lead. In the fourth quarter, the Bears had the ball for 11:47, gained 10 first downs to none for Dallas and even made a fourth-and-9 pass for 15 yards on a fake punt. The first Chicago drive ended on downs at the Dallas 7 when Harbaugh was pressured and threw short into the ground. The next Bears' drive ended in Harbaugh's 6-yard scoring pass to Tom Waddle. The last one -- which began at the Chicago 4 with 1:50 left and the Bears trailing by 17-13 -- ended in an interception by safety Bill Bates at the Bears' 16 with 1:04 remaining. Waddle was special in the Bears offense today, making 9 often-circus-like catches for 104 yards and repeatedly re-entering after suffering a variety of injuries, including a bruised sternum. The Bears said they would leave him in a hospital overnight for observation because he might have suffered a mild concussion. "Our special teams have struggled," Carrier said. "We had the blocked punt on us. There's no way we should be starting that last drive from our own 4, but we let the ball roll and roll for about 20 yards on their punt and that was that. In a relatively even game, you need your special teams." Chicago led in plays (82-48) and yards (372-288), and maintained possession for nearly 15 more minutes than Dallas. The Cowboys, having won crucial road games at Washington and at Philadelphia this season, taught the Bears a lesson they probably already knew: Gaining yards but going nowhere, particularly near the end zone once there, spells defeat. Advertisement Missed opportunities. Golden ones for Dallas. "There's not a person in here today who doesn't believe after this game that we have a great shot at the Super Bowl," the beaming Dallas owner, Jerry Jones, said in his team's locker room after the game. "We're playing with an attitude that doesn't start five minutes before the game. It's there all week and it's constant." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 30, 1991, on Page C00001 of the National edition with the headline: FOOTBALL; Bears Squander Their Possessions to Stingy Cowboys.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »