He has often been called languid and uninterested, a man with a passing resemblance to Count Dracula. Yet through a passage from CSKA Sofia in his native Bulgaria, to Bayer Leverkusen in Germany to the shores of England with Tottenham to Manchester United and now to Fulham, no one has ever called Dimitar Berbatov unskilled. On Saturday at Craven Cottage in London, Berbatov scored his eighth goal of the season in the Premier League, the game’s only goal in a win against Stoke City. It was not a tap-in. Instead it was a splinter of individual brilliance — a stunning right-footed volley from the top-right corner of the penalty area that rocketed into the near, top corner of the goal as the Stoke goalkeeper Asmir Begovic watched, stunned.  
Video: Berbatov volley stuns Stoke City
 Or perhaps you prefer this one by Rafael for Manchester United against Queens Park Rangers. 
Video: Rafael scores screamer against QPR
 The Fulham match also marked the debut of the American midfielder Brek Shea, who completed a transfer last month from Dallas of Major League Soccer. Shea entered for the injured Matthew Etherington in the 24th minute. Did you see Berba’s goal? Is there anyone in the Premier League (or anywhere else) with skill as exquisite as the Bulgarian? Follow Jack Bell on Twitter. Goal, The New York Times soccer blog, will report on news and features from the world of soccer and around the Web.  Times editors and reporters will follow international tournaments and provide analysis of games. There will be interviews with players, coaches and notable soccer fans, as well as a weekly blog column by Red Bulls forward Jozy Altidore.  Readers can discuss Major League Soccer, foreign leagues and other issues with fellow soccer fans.
	 
			The Goal blog’s regular features, including live match analysis, player ratings from key matches, reader discussion, news and notes and more, can now be found on the soccer section front.Read more… 
			Crystal Palace won promotion to England’s Premier League on Monday. Now the club must retool under Manager Ian Holloway if it is to avoid relegation next season.Read more… 
			When congress opens, FIFA will be dealing with issues from President Sepp Blatter’s possible run for another term to accusations of vote-rigging among executive committee members.Read more… 
			Sacha Kljestan, who just won his second straight Belgian title with Anderlecht, could have a role to play for the United States in its exhibition against Belgium on Wednesday.Read more… 
			Alonso Hernandez, who plays in Mexico for Monterrey but has never represented the United States at any level, will get a chance to earn a place on the Under-20 World Cup team.Read more… Follow Advertisement