Advertisement By IRA BERKOW "How do you feel about playing against Magic in the All-Star Game?" Phil Jackson asked a player, one he will be coaching on the East team in Sunday's game in Orlando, Fla. "For the record, or do you want my honest opinion?" asked the player. "Honest opinion." "I don't want to guard him," said the player. Jackson, the Chicago Bulls coach, will direct the National Basketball Association's East team as it takes on the West, with Magic Johnson, and Jackson said he has found that most players hold the same conviction as that anonymous All-Star. "But they don't want to say it publicly," said Jackson. "They feel it's not politically correct." Undercurrent of Uneasiness There was a time when players didn't want to guard Magic Johnson because he was so tricky, so strong, so skillful that he made them look foolish. Now, there is another undercurrent of uneasiness in guarding Johnson, who has tested positive for H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, and has retired from the Los Angeles Lakers. Advertisement "We're not talking about getting a common cold," said one player. "We're talking about a matter of life and death." Advertisement The chance that the virus can be transmitted in casual contact is virtually nonexistent. But this does not take away the concern of athletes, or others. Not long ago, nurses in the intensive-care unit of a Chicago hospital went on strike rather than treat H.I.V.-infected patients. And last week, a weekly newspaper, American Medical News, quoted a recent report from the Harvard School of Public Health that stated that the greatest number of medical-related lawsuits has to do with AIDS. "The biggest trend in the discrimination area has focused on refusal-to-treat issues in health care," the newspaper said. And that, it said, includes physicians refusing to see H.I.V.-infected patients. A prominent sports agent said that some 25 of his N.B.A. clients had called and expressed concern about playing at any time against Johnson. Johnson has said that in addition to playing in the All-Star Game (he was voted onto the starting team through balloting by fans), he hopes to compete with the United States team in the Summer Olympic Games. There have also been hints that he may try to rejoin the Los Angeles Lakers for the N.B.A. playoffs this spring. "The players tell me, 'I know doctors say the risk is very, very low of having the virus transmitted from one person to another in a basketball game, but why take the risk at all?' " said the agent, who, like many others involved with professional basketball, asked not to be identified. "But if you ask them officially? 'We all want him to play.' " Poll Supports Johnson Indeed, of the 132 N.B.A. players polled by eight newspapers, reported the Orange County Register on Jan. 24, 96 said that Johnson should play in the All-Star Game. Eleven said no, and 25 had no comment. The debate of whether Johnson should play Sunday has not been limited to health concerns. Some players -- like Charles Barkley of Philadelphia, and Byron Scott and A. C. Green, who were Laker teammates of Johnson -- believe that Johnson should not play in the game because he is retired. Advertisement "The game should be for the active players," said Barkley, who was voted to the East squad. "It's not fair, especially for those who are coming for the first time, like a Dan Majerle. They should be the focus of attention. But you know it will be Magic. And this is nothing against Magic, who was a great player and is a friend of mine." To this, Johnson has said, "I don't want them telling me how to live my life." "I found that my players all honor Magic as a player, and have the greatest respect for him as a person, but they feel Magic should just toss the ball out at the opening ceremony and then sit down and enjoy the game," said the sports agent.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But by competing, many feel that Johnson will make a more powerful point. "Magic wants to demonstrate that just because you have the virus, doesn't mean you have to be isolated like a leper," said Lon Rosen, Johnson's agent.  Negligible, but Not Nil The point that is most significant to some players, however, is the matter of whether H.I.V. can be transmitted by the sometimes not-so-casual contact in a bruising basketball game. One of the few N.B.A. players to publicly express fears was Mark Price, a guard of the Cleveland Cavaliers, who said that any risk was too great a risk. Price will be playing for the East team on Sunday. "Without question we know that you don't have the virus transmitted from casual contact, or from sweat, or from saliva," said Dr. William M. Reiter, the director of clinical research at the Center for Special Immunology, which is based in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Reiter has treated thousands of AIDS patients over the last 10 years. "You can hug someone with AIDS, you can kiss them, and do it without fear. We know that AIDS is transmitted primarily from sexual intercourse, from infected needles, or from some accident, like -- and this has happened -- blood from a patient squirting into a nurse's eye. "But there is so much ignorance about how you get it, there is such a lack of education about it, that it sometimes seems there is pure hysteria. We're sort of in the Dark Ages about it. In fact, there is probably a greater risk of someone getting killed in a car accident on the way to the basketball game, or walking down the street to the arena, than getting the AIDS virus from another player in the game itself. Getting AIDS from contact in a basketball game is negligible." A scenario was presented to Reiter: What if Magic Johnson had been cut in the mouth and was bleeding even a little. And what if another player's elbow accidentally jammed in Johnson's mouth, thus opening a cut in the other player, and blood was exchanged. Isn't there then a chance for H.I.V. to be transmitted in the basketball game? "I said the chances were negligible," he said. "I didn't say they were nil." Reed and Layden Are Supportive Advertisement The question of Johnson's participation in the game was viewed variously by some of the league's executives, as well. Norm Sonju, general manager of the Dallas Mavericks, said that Johnson was retired "and that should be the criterion whether he plays in a game or not." Willis Reed, head of basketball operations for the New Jersey Nets, said that since the league's medical advisers have sanctioned Johnson's playing in the game, then he goes along with that decision. "Doctors are cautious," said Reed. "Most say 'no' before they say 'yes.' " "The All-Star Game is show business, it's a party, an exhibition, it's TV ratings, so the league does want Magic to play," said Frank Layden, president of the Utah Jazz. "But they also have to be concerned about the risks. And if they say they're minimal, then you can go along with it, or you can refuse to play, which no one so far has done. But you go through life trusting people. You trust red lights, you trust the brakes on your car, you trust innoculations." "Magic would never play if he thought he was endangering anyone's life, or doing harm to his own," said Rosen. "But doctors have assured him that it's okay to play in this game. Whether he'll play in the N.B.A. again on a regular basis, we don't know. It's not just playing that may be harmful to his condition, but it's the travel, the stress of the N.B.A., the intense competition, the diet, the whole combination of the rigors of the schedule." Some Fears Remain Johnson, said Rosen, is also intent on demonstrating that even people infected with H.I.V. can lead relatively normal lives. "He's a guy with a vision," said Rosen. "He wants to be educated about the disease, and he wants to help others learn about what it's really all about, too. He wants to put everybody at ease. He really wants to play in this game, to sort of say goodbye to the fans. You can be sure he's going to put on a magical show." Meanwhile, fears remain. Two team doctors in professional sports, one of them affiliated with an N.B.A. team, agreed that the risks of Johnson transmitting the disease in a game were exceedingly minimal, almost to the point of being nonexistent. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 7, 1992, on Page B00009 of the National edition with the headline: All-Stars to Give Magic a Nervous Embrace.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »