Advertisement By FRANK LITSKY and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES In a spectacular finish, the Giants upset the Redskins, 27-24, tonight when Raul Allegre kicked a 52-yard field goal as time ran out. The Giants seemed on their way to a 21-10 victory in their first game of the National Football League season. Phil Simms had thrown touchdown passes of 30 yards to Odessa Turner and 62 yards to Dave Meggett, and Ottis Anderson had run 14 yards for a touchdown. Then, to the screams of a sellout crowd of 54,160 at Robert F. Kennedy Stadium, the Redskins struck back midway through the fourth quarter. A 66-yard drive ended with Mark Rypien's 6-yard touchdown pass to Art Monk. Two plays later, Monte Coleman intercepted Simms's pass for Mark Bavaro and returned it 24 yards for a touchdown. That put the Redskins ahead, 24-21. But Allegre tied the score with a 32-yard field goal with 2 minutes 17 seconds left. Advertisement ''I had a lot more pressure on me on the first one,'' Allegre said of his tying field goal. ''If I missed the second one, we would still be in overtime.'' Advertisement After that first field goal, the Giants forced the Redskins to punt and took over on their 29-yard line with 44 seconds left. Four plays and one pass-interference penalty later, the Giants were on the Redskins' 35 with 6 seconds remaining. Allegre then kicked the winning field goal, the ball just clearing the crossbar as time and the Redskins expired. ''He had kicked one in the preseason,'' Coach Bill Parcells said of Allegre's range. ''When it went up I thought it had a shot. We were lucky. ''I thought the turnovers were going to get us. We were having trouble stopping them, and they were having trouble stopping us.'' On a hot, muggy night, the Redskins piled up the yardage. Rypien threw touchdown passes of 48 yards to Ricky Sanders and 6 yards to Monk and completed 22 of 32 for 349 yards. Sanders had 143 yards and Gary Clark 101 in receptions, and Gerald Riggs rushed for 111 yards. Simms finished with 11 of 19 for 254 yards, two touchdowns and two interceptions. Anderson carried 23 times for 93 yards Both teams tried to establish running games from the start, with Anderson doing the heavy running for the Giants and Riggs for the Redskins. The first break came on Simms's first pass, intended for Lionel Manuel. The ball was underthrown, and Alvin Walton intercepted for the Redskins. His 21-yard return put the Redskins on the Giants' 36-yard line.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But two plays later, as Riggs ran 7 yards for a first down, Lawrence Taylor stripped the ball from behind, a favorite trick of the veteran linebacker. Mark Collins recovered for the Giants, and they moved 72 yards for a touchdown. Good Play by Turner The score came on Simms's 30-yard pass to Turner. The 6-foot-3-inch wide receiver leaped for the ball with Darrell Green, the Redskins' 5-8 cornerback. Turner wrestled it away from Green, and the Giants had a touchdown and a 7-0 lead with 47 seconds left in the first quarter. Advertisement The next time the Giants got the ball, they were pinned back on their 9 after a punt. Simms got them out to their 38. Then, on third and 10, the 5-foot-7-inch Meggett showed how he could be explosive. The Giants lined up in a shotgun formation, with Meggett as the only back. As Simms faded to pass, Meggett drifted over the middle. Simms hit him for a first down, but Meggett's quickness made it more. Meggett slipped away from Walton, then eluded Todd Bowles and got to the 5 before Brian Davis tried to grab him. Meggett's momentum carried him into the end zone for a touchdown, and the conversion put the Giants ahead, 14-0, after 5:58 of the second quarter. The Redskins then drove 64 yards, only to have Chip Lohmiller's 49-yard field-goal attempt sail wide to the left. The next time they had the ball, they scored on Lohmiller's 24-yard field goal. They had a first down on the 6, but three pass attempts got them nowhere and they settled for the field goal. The half ended with the Giants leading, 14-3. The Redskins closed their deficit to 14-10 at 13:04 of the third quarter. On Rypien's play-action pass to Sanders, the receiver got by Collins, who seemed to be looking for help from a safety. By the time Terry Kinard arrived, the ball was landing in Sanders's hands.  False Alarm Five hours before the kickoff, a fire alarm forced the Giants to evacuate their suburban hotel. The players, some awakened from afternoon naps, stood patiently in front of the main entrance while autograph seekers moved in. Firefighters arrived shortly and determined it was a false alarm. . . . Adrian White worked out before the game, and Parcells decided he was sound enough to stay on the active roster. . . . Greg Jackson, at strong safety, became the first defensive rookie to start a Giants opener since Parcells became head coach in 1983. . . . Though there are 47 players on each roster, two must be made inactive for each game. The two Giants were Robb White, the backup defensive end recovering from an injured knee, and Jeff Rutledge, the third-team quarterback. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 12, 1989, on Page D00023 of the National edition with the headline: Allegre's Last-Play Field Goal Wins for Giants.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »