Advertisement By WILLIAM N. WALLACE In the fast-moving world of college basketball, a wink of an eye can mean a lot. Bryan Caver, the Seton Hall point guard, took too many winks -- he said he overslept and missed a class -- and thereby incurred a mandatory suspension for the game against Georgetown at Landover, Md., on Saturday. Without a pilot, the Pirates lost, 71-51. And when Indiana's Pat Graham winked in a game against Penn State, one of his contact lenses popped out. The tight game was immediately halted during a Nittany Lion five-on-four fastbreak with just under four minutes left, even though the rules say play is to stop only if a player is bleeding or in danger of further injury. With the lens found and play resumed, the Hoosiers forced a turnover and went on to win, 76-66. Missing Ironman Miami's point guard, Michael Gardner, who has played an ironman role for the Hurricanes, did not take enough winks the night before the Georgetown game on Jan. 29 and missed the team's curfew. He was then suspended indefinitely by Coach Leonard Hamilton for this, plus other suspected infractions, and was sorely missed when Miami lost to Connecticut, 73-57, on Saturday. Advertisement In three seasons in the Big East, the Hurricanes have never won a game on the road and the streak is now 0-23. Advertisement Vermont, however, survived the absence of the nation's leading scorer, Eddie Benton, who was winking somewhere else during a scheduled shoot-around Saturday morning at home in Burlington. Coach Tom Brennan suspended Benton, who had scored 54 points a week ago in a 100-87 loss to Drexel. On Saturday night against Hartford, who had been 6-0 in the North Atlantic Conference, the Catamounts, who had been 0-6 in league play, did not need Benton, who was averaging 28.8 points a game. They somehow won easily, 80-68. Flunked the Dunk Paul Evans, the Pitt coach, could not believe what he was seeing when Eric Mobley missed basketball's highest percentage shot: the dunk. Mobley, the team's center and most valuable player, missed three dunks and Orlando Antigua missed one. The Panthers also missed 17 free throws and the guards missed 8-of-11 3-point shots in a 80-77 home loss to Syracuse. Adrian Autrey, a senior point guard, steered the Orangemen to victory with 26 points, nine rebounds and six assists. His key basket, coming with with 31 seconds left and the shot clock about to expire, gave Syracuse a 77-72 lead as the Orangemen won on the road for the 10th time in 15 games.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Syracuse, 15-3 over all and 8-3 in the Big East, is alone in second place, one and a half games behind Connecticut, which is 19-2 and 9-1. The Orangemen play at fifth-place Georgetown tonight. After missing two games because of pneumonia, Coach Jim Calhoun was at courtside enduring the Huskies' slow start against Miami, which was started the game at 7-11 and 0-10. Donyell Marshall missed his first 12 shots and was 6 for 23 from the floor. Yet he managed 20 points, his 19th straight game in which he has scored 20 or more points. UConn plays at Boston College (16-6 and 7-4), on Wednesday. The Eagles sustained a loss in overtime at Villanova, 92-86, as Bill Curley, their indispensable center, fouled out with 4 minutes 48 seconds left in regulation after scoring only 10 points. Kerry Kittles had another good game for the Wildcats, scoring 25 points with a key 3-point overtime basket. St. John's Shawnelle Scott and Charles Minlend held their own against the Providence big men under the basket as the Redmen beat the Friars, 73-69, at Alumni Hall. Scott had 19 points and Minlend 17, while Michael Smith scored 24 for Providence. The Redmen had lost eight of their nine previous games, seven of nine in the Big East. Eyes on the Owls Advertisement Many eyes will be watching Temple next month when the tournaments begin, according to Jim Baron, the St. Bonaventure coach. After the Bonnies lost, 73-52, in Philadelphia, Baron said of the Owls: "I wouldn't be surprised if they make it to the Final Four. They don't beat themselves; they take good shots and take care of the ball." Temple, 16-2 and 9-1 in the Atlantic 10, extended Division I's longest winning streak to 10 games. The Owls expect to move up today from 10th in the Associated Press poll, which will likely have North Carolina at No. 1. If so that would mean a change at the top for the sixth straight week. Duke was on top last week, but the Blue Devils lost to the Tar Heels, 89-78, last Thursday. REBOUNDS After Notre Dame (7-13) scored a 79-63 upset of No. 4 U.C.L.A. (15-2) at South Bend, Ind., on Saturday, Bruins Coach JIM HARRICK had a simple explanation. "It wasn't the building," he said. "They just played good and we didn't. We were on our heels all day." . . . After No. 6 Arkansas crushed Montevallo, 131-64, Coach NOLAN RICHARDSON explained the scheduling mismatch. "We didn't want nine days off before playing Kentucky," he said. "Montevallo was the only team that would play us this weekend." Montevallo is a National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (N.A.I.A.) college in Alabama with 3,200 students. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 7, 1994, on Page C00003 of the National edition with the headline: COLLEGE BASKETBALL; If Players Don't Sleep Now, They May Miss Out Later.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »