Advertisement By MALCOLM MORAN Now that Notre Dame's preparation for the game Saturday evening against Pittsburgh includes a revised alignment for the end of its pre-game warm-ups, followers of the top-ranked team in the country will seek answers to at least two questions: Given coach Lou Holtz's threat to resign in the event of another fight like the one before the Southern California game last Saturday, how will the Fighting Irish go about their business during what should be the most-watched warm-up in the nation? And once Notre Dame must face Pittsburgh, with a No. 1 ranking and a 19-game winning streak at stake, will the defensive posture Holtz has demanded for the pre-game drill carry over into the game? Susceptible to the Pass The Panthers (5-0-1), ranked eighth in the Associated Press poll of reporters and broadcasters, ninth in the United Press International poll of coaches and only 20th in The New York Times's computer ratings, presented enough problems before the warm-up became an issue. Though Notre Dame can equal the second-longest winning streak in its history with a victory this Saturday, the Irish have been surprisingly susceptible to the pass. Notre Dame has allowed an average of 211.9 passing yards a game. While the Irish defense has held opponents to a total of 756 rushing yards in the seven games, the unit, still recovering from the preseason departure of several important players as a result of university probation, academic problems and a transfer, has not developed the consistent pass rush to support an experienced secondary. Shift in Focus Advertisement The Panthers have gained an average of 428 yards a game, including 238.5 on passes. Alex Van Pelt, the surprising freshman quarterback, has thrown for 1,414 yards this season, with 10 touchdown passes and 5 interceptions.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. This week, though, the focus will be on the moments before the game nearly as much as the game itself. Holtz said earlier in the week that the routine his teams have followed for 20 years would be altered to make sure that visiting teams at Notre Dame Stadium have enough room to reach the tunnel at the north end of the field. Advertisement It was the congested area leading to the tunnel, the only route for the two teams to reach the dressing rooms, that became the scene of the chaos that has inspired criticism of the program and has led Holtz to become the nation's unhappiest coach with a 19-game winning streak. ''We should have avoided it at all costs,'' Holtz said, ''even if it meant retreating to our locker room.'' That is the outlook that could have an impact on the game against the Panthers. Donn Grimm, a junior linebacker, said: ''The pre-game incident should not have happened. It was something we had been warned about. It could have been avoided.'' But Grimm's view of the incident sounded merely regretful. Holtz, who blamed himself for the logistics that contributed to the problem, sounded despondent. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 27, 1989, on Page B00017 of the National edition with the headline: COLLEGES; Scrutiny for Irish Pre-game Routine.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »