Advertisement  TENNIS  No. 1 Edberg Is Upset  Jan Siemerink of the Netherlands upset top-seeded Stefan Edberg of Sweden, 7-6 (7-5), 6-2, in the second round of the ABN tournament yesterday in Rotterdam, the Netherlands. Siemerink is ranked 42d on the ATP Tour. Second-seeded Boris Becker of Germany won in straight sets, beating Anders Jarryd, 6-2, 6-4. (AP) Mancini Advances in Arizona: Alberto Mancini of Argentina, seeded fourth, beat a countryman, Gabriel Markus, 4-6, 6-4, 6-2, in the second round of the Purex Championships in Scottsdale, Ariz. (AP) Seles Moves to Quarterfinals: Top-seeded Monica Seles defeated Tami Whitlinger, 6-2, 6-3, to advance in the Evert Cup tournament in Indian Wells, Calif. Seles will face seventh-seeded Gigi Fernandez in the quarterfinals today. (AP) N.H.L.  Olympian Starts Fast  Playing in his first National Hockey League game since leading the Unified Team to the Olympic gold medal, Igor Kravchuk broke a third-period tie to lead host Chicago over Detroit. Kravchuk, a former member of the Red Army team, was signed only eight hours earlier to a two-year contract plus an option year. (AP) Blues 7, Capitals 3: Brett Hull scored three goals for the seventh time this season as host St. Louis ended Washington's winning streak at four games. Hull, who leads the N.H.L. with 62 goals in 64 games, took over the scoring lead with 97 points. (AP) Whalers 8, Penguins 4: Murray Craven scored twice and Hartford snapped a road streak without a victory at 13 games by beating Pittsburgh. (AP) Bruins 4, Maple Leafs 2: Dave Poulin scored the 176th goal of his career in his 1991-92 debut as Boston beat visiting Toronto. Poulin had abdominal surgery in December. (AP) Flyers 3, Flames 0: Rookie goaltender Dominic Roussel recorded his first N.H.L. shutout, leading visiting Philadelphia over Calgary. (AP) We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 28, 1992, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: RESULTS PLUS.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »