Advertisement By ROBIN FINN and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES On a sunny day where tenacity meant more than tenure, the Lipton International Players Championships lost both its defending champions. Last year, Ivan Lendl backed into his second title after his opponent, Thomas Muster, damaged a knee when he was struck by a car in the parking lot of the bayside restaurant where he had stopped for a late-night snack. Today, Lendl lost an opportunity to become the first man to defend his Lipton title successfully when he was ambushed by an antic wind and steady play from Emilio Sanchez of Spain. Immediately after Lendl's demise, Gabriela Sabatini showed less bluster than did Conchita Martinez, also of Spain, and fell by 7-6, 6-2. Advertisement Aplomb Deserts Her Sabatini, a titan when undermatched yet a bundle of nerves when challenged, lunged out to a 4-1 lead but could not regain her composure once Martinez caught up and then dictated play in the first-set tie breaker. Advertisement ''I didn't see myself fighting with her,'' said Sabatini, whose tentativeness showed up in her abbreviated ground strokes. ''I was a little negative. I was not thinking.'' Martinez faces Judith Wiesner of Austria in one semifinal on Thursday. Third-seeded Monica Seles meets Nathalie Tauziat in the other. Lendl faltered in the fourth round when Sanchez opted to be unbothered by the skittish wind and his prior futility against the world's top player and toppled him, 6-3, 6-7, 6-4. ''He was the only one I couldn't win against,'' Sanchez said of his previous inability to add Lendl to his list of upset victims, a list that includes Boris Becker, Stefan Edberg and John McEnroe. Had Some Doubts ''I was very close other times, but I couldn't do it,'' said Sanchez, a three-time loser to Lendl. ''In the first set, I thought, 'I'm going to lose.' But there was a part of me today that told me to think to keep trying.''  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. There was a part of Lendl today that reminded him he did not really want to be here fulfilling a commitment he made to his former clothing company, a tournament sponsor. Even after regaining some laser accuracy in the second set and its ensuing tie breaker, Lendl wore the same sour look that Becker had worn 24 hours earlier as he was eliminated by an underdog, Jean Fleurian. ''Every time I come here it's very humid, and I never feel the ball coming off my racquet as well as I would like,'' Lendl said. ''I couldn't time the ball. I couldn't see the ball.'' Sanchez did not have these problems. He kept the ball to the center of the court and waited for Lendl to make or break himself with the prospective winners he pelted toward the sidelines. Advertisement Revives in Second Set Lendl bowed quickly in the first set, in which Sanchez confidently produced two aces and a service winner in the final game to hold serve at love. Sanchez broke for a 2-1 lead in the second set. But Lendl abruptly clicked his game into sync midway through it, breaking back for 3-3 and saving two break points with a whiplike forehand and an ace to hold serve at 6-5. Lendl continued to browbeat Sanchez in the tie breaker, but could not keep sufficient pressure on him in the third set. Very much cornered as he served at 2-5, Lendl saved one match point with a first serve so violent it knocked Sanchez down, and he fended off two more as Sanchez served unsuccessfully for the match. But when Lendl confronted another break point as he served at 4-5, his dangerously angled backhand approach shot failed when Sanchez passed it back across the net for a forehand winner that ended the match. Edberg, the only survivor of the three top-seeded men, turned aside Carl Steeb, 6-2, 4-6, 6-3. And fifth-seeded Andre Agassi beat 12th-seeded Andres Gomez, 6-7, 6-2, 6-3. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 22, 1990, on Page D00024 of the National edition with the headline: Lendl and Sabatini Lose at the Lipton.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »