Advertisement By MURRAY CHASS George Steinbrenner suffered another legal setback yesterday in his ongoing effort to reverse his ouster as the Yankees' managing partner. Judge Robert W. Sweet of United States District Court in Manhattan dismissed Steinbrenner's lawsuit against a court stenographic firm that, the owner contended, altered transcripts of depositions taken during the investigation of him last year by Baseball Commissioner Fay Vincent. The lawsuit, against Esquire Reporting Company, was one of three stemming from Vincent's ouster of Steinbrenner 11 months ago. All three have been considered surrogate attempts to have that action overturned. Steinbrenner's One and Only The suit against Esquire was the only one filed directly by Steinbrenner, who, under the agreement he signed last July 30, is not permitted to sue Vincent or John Dowd, the Washington lawyer who led the investigation of Steinbrenner's association with Howard Spira, an admitted gambler. Advertisement In the suit, Steinbrenner sought a minimum of $90,000 in compensatory damages and $1.5 million in punitive damages, contending that the stenographic firm "secretely and illegally" tampered with transcripts at Dowd's direction and that Vincent used the "tampered testimony" to justify his decision against Steinbrenner. Advertisement The lawsuit said that Steinbrenner incurred "substantial legal fees and expenses" in an effort to determine the extent of the company's alleged misconduct.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In his 26-page opinion, Judge Sweet noted that Steinbrenner had the court reporter's original notes transcribed so they could be compared with the transcripts the commissioner received. But, the judge wrote, Steinbrenner could have avoided that expense by obtaining copies of everything from Dowd. "While it may be in some respects understandable that Steinbrenner was reluctant to trust Dowd," Judge Sweet found, "that reluctance was based on his underlying belief that the investigation was biased against him, and that belief has not been borne out by the evidence." One of the primary reasons Steinbrenner sued Esquire was to try and show that the Vincent-Dowd investigation was unfair and that his resulting ouster was also unfair. Of the two other suits, the one brought against Vincent by Leonard Kleinman, the Yankees' chief operating officer, has been severely limited by a Federal magistrate. The third suit, brought last July in Cleveland by two of the Yankees' limited partners, is lying dormant. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 4, 1991, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Steinbrenner Lawsuit Gets the Thumb.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »