Advertisement By CLAIRE SMITH and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES Using the tale of the financial tape, baseball's chosen few who gathered here for the All-Star Game tonight were not measured by their salaries. Of the 12 players who are members of the first class of the $3 million-a-year club, only four are members of their leagues' All-Star teams. They are Rickey Henderson and Jose Canseco of the A's; Will Clark of the Giants and Kirby Puckett of the Twins. The missing: Don Mattingly of the Yankees, Mark Langston of the Angels, Mark Davis of the Royals, Joe Carter of the Padres, Robin Yount and Paul Molitor of the Brewers, Eric Davis of the Reds and Dave Stewart of the A's. In all fairness to Stewart, he would have likely been an All-Star were it not for the scheduling. He and his manager, Tony La Russa, decided not to forgo Stewart's final start of the first half last Sunday and knew, therefore, he would not be eligible to pitch in tonight's exhibition game. Therefore, Stewart was not chosen, a decision made public a while ago by both men. Advertisement In an even more telling division of the millionaires, of the 25 players eligible for free agency and who signed for a million or more this last off season, only three were picked for the squads. They were Dave Parker of the Brewers, Henderson of the A's and Neal Heaton of the Pirates. Advertisement Joining the In Crowd Actually, as of today, that group of 12 became 13. The Cubs announced before the game that their All-Star right fielder, Andre Dawson, has agreed to terms on a one-year, $3.3 million contract to begin in 1991. There is an option year for 1992. Dawson batted .324 in 78 games in the first half to rank fourth in the league. He hit 19 home runs and drove in 57 runs. And he dispelled a lot of beliefs he might be at the end of his career because of knee troubles, said Jim Frey, the Cubs' vice president for baseball operations. ''At the end of the year last year, there were a lot of questions about his condition physically,'' Frey said. ''It was our view that if anyone can come back, who would be determined and dedicated to do what was necessary, it would be someone like Andre Dawson.'' ''I feel I'll play a couple more years,'' said Dawson, who turned 36 today. ''I've found a second home in Chicago. A lot of players fall in love with the city. I'm one of those players.'' Puckett's Memories By all rights, this should be a glorious homecoming for Puckett, the All-Star center fielder of the Twins. He grew up in Chicago, in a public housing project, the Robert Taylor Homes. The project near Comiskey Park on Chicago's South Side is well known for not producing success stories. Puckett made it out, he says, only because his mother, Catharine Puckett, refused to let him fail.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ''But I lost her last year,'' Puckett said. ''She's not here. I guess that's why it's just not that special. I just want to play and get on with the season.'' Catherine Puckett died Oct. 18. ''She got to see me win a batting championship,'' Puckett said with a smile. ''She was with me all the way through it. She's all around me, now.'' Communication Gap Commissioner Fay Vincent and baseball officials met with Donald Fehr, the executive director, and other officials from the Major League Baseball Players Association today to discuss the union's concerns over the tampering fines levied against the Yankees. The union contends that George Steinbrenner could not have interfered with the Dave Winfield trade when the two talked on May 15 because, technically, paperwork had not been complete. ''We had an opportunity to make our point,'' Eugene Orza, counsel for the players association, said. ''It was very constructive.'' Advertisement ''I think that perhaps there could have been a little bit of improvement in the communications,'' Steve Greenberg, deputy commissioner, said. ''We met. We will meet again.'' Cardinals Focus on Two The St. Louis Cardinals continued their search for a successor to Whitey Herzog, focusing at least in part on two former National League managers. Herzog, who was in his 11th season as Cardinals' manager, resigned Friday. The Cardinals named their coach and former manager, Red Schoendist, 67 years old, interim manager. General Manager Dal Maxvill received permission from the Philadelphia Phillies to speak to one of their coaches, the former Houston Astros manager Hal Lanier. Lanier, who managed Houston to a West title in 1986, was a St. Louis coach from 1981 through 1985. Meanwhile, Maxvill was in Chicago tonight, possibly to interview the former Mets and Atlanta Braves Manager Joe Torre, now a broadcaster for the California Angels. Torre said today that he would be interested in discussing the Cardinals' job but would not apply. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 11, 1990, on Page A00016 of the National edition with the headline: NOTEBOOK;   Money Is Not a Factor as $3 Million Doesn't Mean a Thing.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »