Advertisement By AL HARVIN and  The Nets, who went on the road a week and a half ago with a five-game winning streak and came off it with a five-game losing streak, held their first team practice today since returning from the West Coast on Sunday. Although Coach Bill Fitch had no excuses for his team's turnaround, he had a basic explanation: "We were just not playing good." "In the old days, they used to call it getting stale," added Fitch, who watched as most of the positives of a 12-3 stretch before the trip went up in smoke with losses in Philadelphia, Sacramento, Phoenix, Portland and Los Angeles against the Clippers. "At one point during the streak, we were picking each other up, we had good interaction, good vibes." Then the team went stale. A Tough Assignment "The owners spent a lot of extra money for charters and things to minimize the fatigue," Fitch explained. "I just don't think you can play back-to-back games on the West Coast anymore. When you go from Portland to Los Angeles and you're still dealing with the time-zone change, it's like going from Washington to Miami. "I think the ideal way is to have a game, a day off, game, day off. The only time we had a day off on the West Coast was before the Portland game and we played pretty good, even though we lost that game, too." Advertisement But despite the disastrous trip, the Nets have already equaled last season's total of road victories when they were 6-35, with a 6-16 record with 19 more to play. Their home record is above .500, at 13-10, and they will carry a six-game home winning streak into Wednesday night's game against the Seattle SuperSonics. After a Thursday night road game against the Washington Bullets comes the four-day All-Star break. Will that help Nets be able to regain the knack they had achieved before the swing West? "Just like I said before, that nobody can look that good without it being a team effort, nobody can look this bad without it being a team effort," said Fitch. "We didn't have any one guy get it done for us. The only way you get back out of it is to sweat and put twice as much effort into it. I think maybe after these two games and the All-Star break, we'll come back with vim and vigor." REBOUNDS Advertisement The Nets' 19-26 mark is almost a month ahead of last year's pace, when the Nets didn't win their 19th game until Feb. 28. . . . While center SAM BOWIE did not play against the Los Angeles Clippers because of a bruised abdomen on Saturday, CHRIS DUDLEY had his second start of the season at center, scored 12 points and grabbed a season-high 18 rebounds. . . . The Nets and the Sonics have not met this season. Last season, they split their two meetings, each winning at home. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 5, 1992, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: BASKETBALL; Fitch Gets a Reminder of the Old Word 'Stale'.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »