Advertisement By JACK CURRY and  Maybe this was what Seton Hall needed to finally find itself in this oddest of college basketball seasons. Maybe it takes a victory over a powerful nonconference team on national television on the day when pro football is king to swing the Pirates in a new direction. And when Coach P. J. Carlesimo and his team point back to this date, they will credit Brian Caver for giving them the final push in their dramatic 68-64 victory over sixth-ranked Ohio State at Byrne Meadowlands Arena this afternoon. They will also laud Gordon Winchester and Jerry Walker for shackling the Buckeyes' leader, Jim Jackson, and holding him to a silent 21 points; John Leahy for bouncing off the bench and scoring a career-high 16 points, and the 7-foot-2-inch sophomore Luther Wright for elevating his folk-hero status with one of the more theatrical 8-point efforts the 16,062 fans had ever seen. Another Collapse Brewing But first Seton Hall will remember Caver because he coolly made the play that turned a 66-64 lead into a more comfortable 68-64 advantage with 25 seconds left. Jackson had buried a 10-foot jumper to cut Ohio State's deficit to 2 points with 1 minute 14 seconds left, and the Pirates could see another game drifting away. Advertisement They had crumbled in the closing minutes against Boston College and Villanova in the last two weeks, and a field goal separated them from squandering every bit of their 14-point lead to the Buckeyes. Would their Big East curse extend to a Big Ten opponent? Advertisement No. "We got together and said we were not going to let it happen again," said Caver. "We were determined to not let it happen again." It didn't happen because of Caver. The Pirates ran a play called "baseline," which is designed to clear the middle and isolate the point guard on his defender. Caver's job was to penetrate on Jamaal Brown and either beat him for a layup or dish off to a teammate for an easy hoop. Caver was in splendid control as he allowed the shot clock to tick down to 12, 11 and then 10 seconds before he burst past Brown and saw nothing but an open path and a sea of blue-clad fans cheering his way to the clincher. A Free Ride to a Soft Jumper "I thought he was going to step up," Caver said, referring to Ohio State center Lawrence Funderburke, who badgered the Pirates with four blocks. "He didn't step up." Funderburke did not step up, Brown did not recover, Caver nailed a soft running jumper, and the Pirates (11-5) had defeated a nationally ranked opponent for the second time in a week and the second time this season. Seton Hall beat 19th-ranked St. John's last Monday. Ohio State's record is now 12-3.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Caver, who had only 7 points and sometimes plays as if he is still in the Trenton schoolyards, came through when Seton Hall was thirsting for a boost. "That," said Carlesimo, "is a kid making a big play." The Pirates needed a slew of huge plays to overcome the Buckeyes, and they barely squeezed out enough while committing 24 turnovers. A 21-5 spurt during an eight-minute stretch in the second half exhibited the Pirates at their best and gave them a cushion when they lapsed, but did not collapse, in the last 4 minutes. After Jackson's jumper gave the Buckeyes a 38-36 edge with 17 minutes left in the game, Seton Hall took off on its streak as Leahy and Terry Dehere (20 points) had 5 points each. Leahy's outburst was unexpected because he had scored just 14 points in his last 6 games and even Walker said he was surprised by Leahy's connecting on 4 of 5 3-point attempts. Carlesimo also switched the muscular Walker onto Jackson during the run, and that was pivotal as the sharpshooter was frustrated into missing six shots in a row as the Buckeyes slipped behind, 57-43. Advertisement "He denied me the ball, and he played the picks well," Jackson said. "And when I did get open, there was somebody else there to pick me up." Except in the final four minutes. Jackson scored 9 points and added an assist as Ohio State sliced a 65-53 deficit to 66-64, and Seton Hall looked mortal and afraid. But Caver sent the Pirates to a much-needed victory. "That's a tremendous win," Carlesimo said. "That's one of the best wins we've had in a long time." Rhode Island 89, Rutgers 72 KINGSTON, R.I. (AP) -- Mike Brown scored 17 points and five of his teammates also scored in double figures as Rhode Island recovered from a 40-38 halftime deficit to race past Rutgers in an Atlantic 10 game. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 27, 1992, on Page C00010 of the National edition with the headline: COLLEGE BASKETBALL; A Big Lead Shrinks, But the Game Is Saved.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »