Advertisement By MURRAY CHASS As the lawyer for the National League in 1969, Bowie Kuhn was in the right place at the right time when major league club owners were searching for a new baseball commissioner. As the outgoing commissioner in 1984, Kuhn picked the wrong place at the wrong time in resuming his career as a lawyer. The decision, which Kuhn acknowledges was not a wise one, took him on a trail that has plunged him to the nadir of his career and severely damaged his reputation. Once a familiar figure seated in a bunting-draped front-row box at World Series games, coatless in chilly weather, Kuhn has been basically out of sight for nearly a year and a half.  He pursues charitable interests, tries to build his new sports and investment consulting business and spends time in lawyers' offices -- on the client's side of the desk. "Miserable would be too strong a word," Kuhn said in a recent interview, replying to a question about his life since the collapse of his law firm, Myerson & Kuhn in late 1989 and the flood of lawsuits that followed. "It was and remains disturbing that it isn't wrapped up. It ought to be wrapped up. I think there are ways to get it wrapped up. I think it will be wrapped up. But until it is, I will be disturbed about the pendency of it." A Major Legal Story The collapse of Myerson & Kuhn was one of the biggest stories in the legal world in 1989, largely because of the publicity and big promises that surrounded the pairing of Kuhn with the high-powered lawyer Harvey D. Myerson two years earlier. Advertisement But by the end of 1989, the firm was bankrupt, creditors were lining up for their share of the debris, and Kuhn was packing up his $1.2 million home in Ridgewood, N.J., for a quick move to Ponte Vedra, Fla., near Jacksonville. The firm's creditors have charged -- and Kuhn has denied -- that he moved to Florida to take advantage of the legal protection it provides to personal property in bankruptcies. Advertisement In the meantime, a Brooklyn grand jury was investigating the law firm, and last month it indicted Myerson on charges of bilking clients and partners out of more than $3.5 million. If convicted he could be sentenced to 20 years in prison. The 64-year-old Kuhn, who left the New York firm Willkie Farr & Gallagher to join Myerson, has not been implicated in the criminal investigation, said Sean O'Shea, an assistant United States Attorney in Brooklyn. "There are no criminal proceedings involving Mr. Kuhn," he said. But he is facing at least two civil lawsuits for a total of $2 million. How did a former baseball commissioner reach the stage in his life where he would be involved in such a matter? In the interview he considered a theory: By returning to Willkie Farr after the baseball owners did not re-elect him to a fourth term, Kuhn put himself in a position where he would become vulnerable to the advances of Myerson, whose previous law firm dissolved in bankruptcy in 1987. "I guess my tendency to walk down the same roads is fairly strong," Kuhn said in explaining his return to Willkie Farr in 1984. "I would have been better off at that time if I had looked to an entirely different kind of career, maybe a consulting business, sports marketing, basically what I'm doing now. I think it would have been more rewarding. It might have been more fun. By hindsight, yes, I should have done something different." Taken Back, Reluctantly At the time Kuhn returned to Willkie Farr, people in baseball knew and talked privately about how the firm didn't really want him back, but had no choice. He was rehired not as a full partner but as a contract partner, making $175,000 a year, substantially less than the full partners. "A whole new generation of lawyers had grown up in Willkie Farr since I had gone away and they were in charge of the firm and doing well," Kuhn said. "I hadn't grown up with them. Clearly, I would have been better off some place else." Myerson provided that place, and an opportunity for Kuhn to increase his pay to $500,000. "I needed a guy like Kuhn and a big firm for my ego," Myerson told The American Lawyer magazine in 1989.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. When Myerson came calling, Kuhn said, he saw a chance to do something he had never even considered: creating a law firm. "Harvey's a very bright fellow, an exciting personality," Kuhn said, "and when he came along and suggested the idea, I talked to some of my pals in the business and they thought well of it. We built the fastest growing, best darn law firm you ever saw but without appreciating that it had the seeds of its own destruction tucked in there. That all came true in the second year, so in hindsight that wasn't the best decision I ever made." Advertisement His critics and the firm's creditors didn't think much of his decision to "flee" to Florida either. Leon Marcus, a bankruptcy lawyer who was a partner in Myerson & Kuhn, has possibly been Kuhn's most outspoken critic while he works on the bankruptcy case. A 'Pompous Fraud' "He is a gold-plated pompous fraud," Marcus said in a recent telephone interview. "You can't trust him. When he came into the firm, I didn't know anything about him except that he was a baseball commissioner who my favorite writer, Red Smith, hated. Within the first month I was there, I perceived that Red Smith was right and the guy was all facade and no substance." It is this sort of comment that has undermined Kuhn's reputation since he went to Florida. But Kuhn said he didn't think people would judge him on such remarks. "I stand on my reputation," he said. Nonetheless people have talked ever since he quietly and unexpectedly sold his house in Ridgewood, N.J., for $1.2 million and bought a new million-dollar house on a marsh in Ponte Vedra, Fla. For a couple of months he stayed completely out of sight, prompting wide speculation that he was hiding from the firm's bankruptcy, its partners and subpoena servers. Creditors also charged that he moved a $2 million investment account to Florida so it couldn't be touched. A lawyer for one of the firm's creditors, who did not want to be identified, said he understood what he called "Kuhn's strategy." "But maybe he pursued it too aggressively," the lawyer said. "He's engendered a lot of ill will." At the same time, Kuhn had good reason to worry about his assets and whether they could be seized by Myerson & Kuhn's creditors. Bankruptcy Judge Prudence B. Abram put it bluntly at a hearing early last year. Noting that Kuhn "chose to lend his name to the firm," she said: "If Mr. Kuhn is worth $3 million, Mr. Kuhn has a serious problem in this case. If his other partners are insolvent, he bears the full hit." Kuhn discussed not the "strategy" but the popular perception of his actions. "It was not a happy thing for me to have people have that perception," he said in the interview, conducted in a Manhattan coffee shop. "It was very hard to know how to correct it. The story was out there one day in very responsible publications and it was hard, once that story was out there, to do much with it. I wasn't happy about it, but I'm a big boy and I had grown up in a business where you had a lot of shots taken at you and you learn to live with it." Damage Control Trying to counter the perception, Kuhn issued a statement through his lawyers about two months after he "disappeared," denying that he had been hiding and saying he had moved to an area where his family had strong roots. He reiterated that explanation last week, and added: "It was no disadvantage that the laws of Florida were such as to make it an attractive place also to be from the point of view of somebody who was involved in the closing down of a law firm, given all the problems that can emerge from that." Advertisement "Some 16 months later," he added, "I have no reason to think I made anything but a wise decision. I love it there." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 12, 1991, on Page 8008003 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Kuhn's Descent From Commissioner to Legal Outcast.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »