Advertisement By GERALD ESKENAZI and  Browning Nagle will not leapfrog into the Jets' starting quarterback spot this season. But still, you don't want to hurt the rookie's feelings after he messed up in his first exposure to National Football League competition. So Joe Daniels, the quarterbacks' coach, showed mercy at this morning's film session, which reviewed last Saturday's scrimmage against the Redskins. "We watched everything up to the time of him coming in," recalled Daniels, smiling. "And then we said, 'Let's take a break for Browning's sake. We can see the rest of the films after lunch.' " No Labels, Please No one around here wants to put an official label on Nagle: Future Jets' Quarterback. The thing is, he is. Advertisement So he was closely watched as he made his first appearance against the Redskins. First, he failed to read his offensive line correctly. He didn't shout out adjustments. That put him under pressure, he thought. Advertisement "The very first play, we gave him a pass. His footwork wasn't very good," said Daniels. "Maybe he thought there was pressure, and there wasn't any, and he threw too late into the flat, which you don't do in this league. I think he didn't get over the excitement the rest of the time he was in. He's a proud kid and doesn't like to mess up, and he put a lot of pressure on himself." Nagle's first pass was intercepted. He completed only 1 of 5 attempts. He ran 13 plays. He was intercepted a second time. He overthrew a teammate down the middle. He suffered a sack that wiped out a third interception. He also wasn't blessed with all the first-stringers on offense. Pressuring Eagles The Jets' first preseason test will come against the Philadelphia Eagles and their pressure defense Saturday night at Giants Stadium. Ken O'Brien will start. "I don't know if I'll play Saturday and I don't even think about it," Nagle said today. "I'm thinking about today. I'm going to settle down and do the best that I can do."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The potential for that is impressive. The club did not have a first-round pick, having chosen Rob Moore last year as a supplemental choice. But Nagle, who starred at Louisville under Howard Schnellenberger (developer of Bernie Kosar, Joe Namath and Jim Kelly), was the Jets' first pick when their second-round selection came up. Stiffest Competition "Ken O'Brien is our quarterback and it's his to lose or to hold," said Daniels. "To be honest, the competition will come from Troy Taylor or Turk Schonert. We're not in a situation that we're so bad we'll put Browning in because it doesn't matter if we lose." Despite his fourth-place status Nagle is virtually certain to be among the three quarterbacks that the Jets will keep. If for no other reason, there is his undeniable ability ("Ahead of Kelly," was Schnellenberger's assessment). And can Nagle concentrate after a sputtering debut? "Yes," he said. "Because I'm a better quarterback than I showed Saturday." EXTRA POINTS Advertisement Two days later, SCOTT MERSEREAU still could not believe he had been ejected from the scrimmage against the Redskins. "This guy tackled me," claimed Merserau, a defensive linemen. "How can an offensive linemen tackle me? I said to the official: 'Did you see that?' The official told me he didn't see anything, so I said, 'I'm going to take this into my own hands.' " He did, with a punch. "The official yelled, 'You're out!' I told him, 'You can't kick me out of a practice. I never heard of such a thing.' And he said, 'Yeah? Well, you're out.' So I left." Mersereau did not suffer the same fate in Monday's practice after a mini-brawl with DAVE ZAWATSON, an offensive lineman. The pair was separated and Mersereau was allowed to remain. . . . DAVE CADIGAN, who had reconstructive knee surgery last October and was expected to miss this season, is back starting at right guard. Led by Coach RICH KOTITE, the Eagles bring in six former Jets' coaches. . . . DANNIE LOCKETT, the linebacker who suffered whiplash when his car flipped over at high speed June 29, has been cleared by the Jets to practice. Lockett had starred for the London Monarchs, and was one of two most valuable players on defense in the World League of American Football last spring. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 30, 1991, on Page B00010 of the National edition with the headline: FOOTBALL; Jets Don't Replay It Again For Nagle.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »