Advertisement By THOMAS GEORGE After the Denver Broncos edged the Chiefs by 16-13 on Sunday at Arrowhead Stadium in Kansas City to improve to 8-2, someone told Karl Mecklenburg that the Broncos' defense looked like that of an elite National Conference team. Mecklenburg grinned. ''They've had the upper hand over the A.F.C. in the last few Super Bowls, but the A.F.C. plays defense, too,'' said Mecklenburg, an inside linebacker from Minnesota in his seventh pro season. ''The improvement this year on our defense has been incredible. Whatever you want to call it, it's working.'' You've heard the old line: American Football Conference teams play more of a finesse style and lack the size, strength and stamina of National Football Conference teams. That sentiment has prevailed since the old American Football League and the N.F.L. merged in 1960. N.F.C teams have won five consecutive Super Bowls and seven of the last eight. The Broncos dropped two consecutive Super Bowls in 1987 and 1988 by a combined score of 81-30. But against Kansas City, Denver showed what it has exhibited all season: the Broncos of 1989 are not physically inferior to any team. Advertisement Under the direction of Wade Phillips, the defensive coordinator who joined Denver this season from the Philadelphia Eagles, the Broncos no longer lay back and play a reacting defense. They attack. Phillips has made key additions, including Steve Atwater, a rookie safety. Advertisement ''It's so much more fun this way,'' said Greg Kragen, a nose tackle. ''We've thrown caution to the wind with aggression.'' The results: * Last season, Denver finished last in the N.F.L. against the run. Through eight games this season, it ranked No. 1 and presently ranks 10th. Denver has allowed only three runs of 20 or more yards and two of those have been by scrambling quarterbacks. * Denver has allowed only 153 points, second in the N.F.L. to the 150 by the Cleveland Browns. Through 10 games last season, Denver allowed 206 points. * Each defensive starter has at least a sack or an interception. Denver already has 14 interceptions; last season the team gained only 16. Denver is 5-0 in the A.F.C. Western Division (2-0 in road games) but is 0-1 against the N.F.C. having lost at home to Philadelphia, 24-22.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ''No question, this defense is the area that has been the most pleasing thing,'' Coach Dan Reeves said. Frustrated Eagle This is how frustrated Coach Joe Gibbs was before his Washington Redskins played the Eagles at Philadelphia on Sunday. ''Times like this,'' Gibbs said, ''I wish I were a player so I could take out some of this frustration on the field. There's not much I can do as a coach. I could slug a guy at the 7-Eleven, but there's a good chance for a lawsuit.'' Advertisement But after the Redskins toppled the Eagles by 10-3 at Veterans Stadium, Randall Cunningham knew the feeling. Cunningham had thrown for 447 yards and five touchdowns in beating Washington earlier this season, but on Sunday he completed only 17 of 39 passes for 177 yards. It was the fifth time in the last six Eagles games he had thrown for fewer than 200 yards. ''What's wrong with Randall?'' has become the question in Philadelphia, but a closer look at the situations in which he was throwing against the Redskins reveals that Cunningham is being asked to produce plenty under arduous circumstances. Buddy Ryan, the Eagles' head coach, is unwavering in his goal of establishing a running game. The Eagles ran 19 times, but 12 of those were in the first half. Cunningham threw 13 times in the first half, 26 in the second. The Eagles' receivers dropped eight passes. Cunningham sorely misses two injured receivers, Keith Jackson, a tight end, and Mike Quick, a wide receiver. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 14, 1989, on Page B00024 of the National edition with the headline: NOTEBOOK; Broncos Go for Attack and the Defense Thrives.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »