Advertisement By ROBIN FINN He has finally discovered that life exists beyond tennis. He's got a new car, his first; a new condo, his first; a steady girlfriend, his first; and several new millions in his new savings account. He likes to listen to the softer songs of Led Zeppelin, shop for furniture and dine at restaurants, where he'll try almost any salad on the menu so long as it's not, like one in Palm Springs, named after him. But he insists this fling with the material life does not mean, as some critics have suggested, that his tennis life is over. "And the way I want to prove it is to make that stadium court at Flushing Meadows be like my own backyard, just like Boris Becker has done with Wimbledon," said the defending champion of the United States Open. He still has days when his role as Pete Sampras, tennis celebrity, seems forever to be getting in the way of his enjoyment of the riches that have been delivered to Pete Sampras the person, but he's learning to cope. Advertisement "It's taken me 10 months to get used to having my privacy abandoned, but once you win a Grand Slam the way I did, your life basically changes, and you'd better accept it," Sampras said last week as he made his final preparations to defend his title, beginning tonight. Advertisement Whether he's motivated enough to withstand the ordeal of retaining it remains a matter of debate even to him. "Let's just say it's taken me awhile to adjust, and I think I have," he said. "That doesn't guarantee I'm going to defend my title, but it means I'm ready to, and I couldn't always say that." The 6-foot, 165-pound Sampras limped, cringed and complained his way through the early months of 1991 and was virtually invisible, literally and figuratively, at the three Grand Slams that precede the Open: He missed the Australian because of injury, was fatigued at the French, and bowed, in a very baffled manner, in the second round at Wimbledon. Although he made last-minute reparations for this year's shortcomings by turning in a nearly flawless Open tuneup that included three finals and two titles in the last month, Sampras's career continues to be questioned by a Greek chorus of ex-coaches and tennis gurus who insist that his motivational meanderings will probably prohibit further Grand Slam success. Landing that first Grand Slam made a lot of trouble for the bashful tennis prodigy with a colorful power game but a teen-age persona that, at least in public, verged on beige. "I still don't like to be the center of attention," he said, "but I know some people are counting me out because I haven't had such a good year, and that's got me pumped up to prove them wrong. If I can get hot again like last year, I'll show I'm for real and not a fluke." "But I've found out what Michael Chang meant when he said being the youngest champion of a slam is like carrying a backpack full of bricks around for the next year," he said. "If I lose in the early rounds, well, I know that bagful of bricks is going to come right down on me."  A Desire To Disappear If his shoulders seem to have a premature stoop, and if his brow seems unusually furrowed for a history-making player who just passed his 20th birthday, it's only because Sampras absorbed an overdose of fame, failure and flux after defeating Andre Agassi in the 1990 Open final. Advertisement Retreat has been Sampras's customary public posture, the wince his most exercised facial expression, ever since he whipped his 100th ace of that tournament to become, at age 19, the youngest men's champion in United States Open history. "The only time I'm really happy around tennis is when I'm playing tennis, and that's it; win or lose, as soon as the last point is hit, I wish I could disappear," said Sampras, whose string of mediocre results caused his disappearance from the top five this spring. Now ranked 6th in the world, Sampras compares his play to a renegade faucet that randomly gushes hot or cold. "After the Open, I didn't reflect on what I'd done, and I didn't say no to anything; instead I went off and played a ton of exhibitions and got hurt and then it seemed like I was always hurt," said Sampras, who was plagued by shin splints last winter and a warped Achilles tendon this spring. Usually, he preferred not to play in pain, hence his absence from the 1991 Australian Open, but occasionally he did, hence his historic $2 million winner's check from the December 1990 Grand Slam Cup, a controversial exhibition he attended against the advice of his coach and trainer. "The temptations are always there once you start to win big," said Sampras's trainer, Pat Etcheberry, whose clients also include Jim Courier and Jennifer Capriati. "You can't expect a 19-year-old kid to walk away from 2 million bucks." But back on that balmy Indian summer Sunday last year in Flushing Meadows, Sampras pocketed a sizable, but smaller, $350,000 winner's check with the observation that he now had enough money to last a modest lifetime. "I don't like the red-carpet treatment," he said later. "It's just not the real me." But the red-carpet treatment unfurled anyway, occasionally tampering with Sampras's "real me." Boris Becker has often said that his taming of Wimbledon at the age of 17 left him both shattered and canonized, something Sampras can easily understand. "It took five months for it to sink in that I'd won the Open, that I'd have that forever," Sampras said over a sprawling taco salad at the local Bennigan's in Bradenton, Fla., his adopted hometown. "Right now, it all seems worth it, I guess, the sacrifices made by my family, the way my normal childhood went right out the window. But what I also found out is my life won't be normal . . . forever."  Tugged Here, There, Everywhere Advertisement Following the Open, Sampras was the unwitting caboose on a commercial conga line that pulled him onto the television morning shows, sent him to Hollywood to sit still for Johnny Carson, earned an invitation to the White House for doubles with President Bush, demanded his presence at lucrative exhibitions and put his signature on lucrative endorsements that turned a single slam victory into $10 million to $15 million in long-term earning potential. "We thought he'd be able to deflect more," said his agent, Ivan Blumberg, "but it got to him. It even got to his tennis for a while, which scared him, I think, because if there's one thing he has confidence in, it's his tennis." Pete Sampras the tennis machine had been programmed for Grand Slam triumph like a living computer by his own personal Dr. Frankenstein, Peter Fischer, a California pediatrician who was bent on using his 190 I.Q. and his spare time to create a turbocharged, racquet-wielding clone of Rod Laver.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Once Fischer confirmed the suspicions of Pete's father, Soterios, that he had a child with uncommon potential, the second-grader was handed over to the doctor without a qualm. Pete's mother, Georgia, stayed home to make peace among Pete's three jealous siblings while his father chauffeured and chaperoned Pete on the incessant junior-tennis circuit. Fischer's nine-year research project produced a coolheaded all-court titan with an undecipherable 120 miles per hour serve, a crisp and classic one-handed backhand and a volley that finished off opponents like an arrow to the solar plexus. "Pete Fischer gave me exactly the game I needed to win a Grand Slam; he put his logic in my head," said Sampras. In 1990, two years ahead of Fischer's schedule and a year after Sampras and Fischer parted company over a contract dispute, the grand plan produced a Grand Slam champion: near-perfect tennis carried Sampras past Ivan Lendl, John McEnroe, and Agassi, but he was imperfectly prepared for what came next. "What came along with winning the Open isn't all that it's cracked up to be; at least it didn't seem fun to me," said the entourage-wary Sampras, who felt so alienated by the start of 1991 that he considered touring the circuit alone, without even a coach as companion. "It wasn't exactly like I felt like a robot, but all of a sudden everybody seemed to know me," Sampras said. "I don't see myself as a star at all. I don't know why people want my autograph. People look up to me and I have to admit, I don't like being looked at. I'm in the right business to play tennis, but that's the only part of the business that fits me." Advertisement According to Fischer, who continues to be Sampras's most energetic critic and a rather embittered touchstone, the player he programmed as the next Laver and potentially the greatest player in the world probably doesn't want that honor or responsibility. "All his life he's had other people telling him what he wants. He had me telling him No. 5 in the world wasn't good enough, he had his father telling him maybe it was, and he had his mother telling him that his ranking didn't matter to her so long as he was happy, but I never really knew what he wanted," Fischer admitted. "He's probably blown it, becoming No. 1, becoming the best, but it's entirely possible he already has everything he wants," he said. "He's got a Grand Slam title, he's got plenty of money, and now he's got a girlfriend to tell him how wonderful he is. He's fitter, but his game is certainly no better. The fact that I never coached the greatest player in the world probably bothers me more than it bothers him."  Too Young to Brood About Being No. 1 Sampras doesn't argue the fact that Fischer's blind ambition outweighed his own. "He probably wanted me to be the best as much for himself as for me. No, I'm not content with being No. 7 or 8 in the world, but I honestly think I'm too young to worry about handling what comes with being No. 1." Sampras, undersized at age 9, began his junior career ominously, losing 6-0, 6-0 to a 12-year-old and crying all the way home, the first and last time he allowed tennis to provoke him to tears. "I just got killed, and there were people watching, and I felt really embarrassed," recalled Sampras, who always felt more comfortable on the tennis court with his parents and Fischer elsewhere. For that reason his mother never attended a match until this summer in Los Angeles. While Sampras was a willing pupil on the tennis court, school failed to intrigue him. "I lived in a pretty wealthy neighborhood, and a good percentage of the students from my high school were doing a lot of drugs, and tennis got me away from that," said Sampras, who left Rancho Palos Verdes High after his junior year to join the professional circuit. "I didn't have any close friends at school," Sampras added. "I didn't experience going out on dates or doing any fun things when I was young." In one instance, Fischer proposed to Sampras's father that his son get a taste of team dynamics by going out for basketball. But the father turned the idea down. "I just played tennis, and the rest of the kids looked at me as that, a tennis player, not as one of the guys. Did they think playing tennis wasn't cool? Well, I didn't care. By 16, I knew I wasn't going to college. I hear people say what a good time college is, but then I look at myself and the money I make and the job I do and, well, that's fun, too. I'm not into fraternities or going to parties; maybe if I was a normal kid and not playing tennis, I would be, but I guess I'll never know." Advertisement In 1988, Sampras's unphenomenal freshman year on the tour, the United States Tennis Association joined coaching forces with Fischer, who began to suspect Sampras of underachieving. "Jeff Austin wanted to strangle him, Brian Gottfried said he could end up as the most talented 94 in the world, and Ivan Lendl said Pete was pure talent, no motivation," Fischer said. It was Fischer's determination to have a paid contract with Sampras that produced the dissolution of their partnership after the 1989 U.nited States Open. Sampras, initially unwilling to lose his mentor, agreed to a contract that gave Fischer a percentage of his Grand Slam earnings, but Sampras's parents vehemently opposed the pact. "It wasn't that I needed the money," said Fischer. "it was a matter of principle. But what the parents said when I asked for the contract was that they didn't want anybody to own their son." Sampras views things differently. "He didn't want to travel with me on the tour full time, and I think my parents thought it was time for me to start making my own decisions." Sampras, who gave Fischer full credit when he subsequently won the Open, did an about-face in replacing him with the unprepossessing Joe Brandi, a family man who says Sampras is "like a son" to him and yet is unoffended that he has never been asked inside the 2,600 square-foot townhouse that Sampras shares with 26-year-old DeLaina Mulcahy. Lately, there have been rumors that Sampras is searching for a new coach, perhaps even Laver himself, but Brandi remains on the payroll. There have also been rumors of impending nuptials, but Sampras irritably denies them. "That's the part about winning a Grand Slam that I'll never get used to," he said. "Winning the Open was hard, and defending my title will be harder, but getting away from the rumors seems like it's impossible." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 26, 1991, on Page C00001 of the National edition with the headline: U.S. OPEN '91; Fame, Set, Match: Is It Too Much for Sampras?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »