Advertisement  AP When it's not working for Michael Jordan, the Chicago Bulls' superstar just keeps telling himself it's going to happen soon. And it usually does. On Friday night before 38,067 fans in the Kingdome, many of them cheering for the defending National Basketball Association champions, it happened for Jordan and the Bulls in overtime. Jordan scored 10 of his 31 points in the five-minute extra session in a 112-109 victory over the Seattle SuperSonics. "I was out of synch all night," Jordan said. "I don't know what it was but I couldn't even make layups. But I knew if I kept shooting, it would come back." Advertisement It came back in the extra session. Jordan had two-thirds of his team's 15 overtime points, putting the Bulls ahead 101-97 with two baskets to open the overtime. Advertisement "Michael finally got in a groove and he carried us down the stretch," Chicago Coach Phil Jackson said. "The difference between playing this year and last year is we have more people cheering for us on the road. And I notice more people in attendance." In the Bulls' only scheduled appearance in Seattle this season, Jordan helped attract the largest regular-season crowd in the Sonics' 25-year history. The Sonics drew 40,172 fans into the Kingdome for a 1980 playoff game and a Kingdome crowd of 39,457 for a 1978 playoff game. Jordan was not at his best in the second game of a six-game Chicago road trip but he was good enough to help the Bulls notch their eighth victory in a row and ninth in 11 games this season. Jordan missed 15 of the 26 shots. He also missed a free throw in 10 attempts. But he kept his performance in perspective, saying the Bulls won and that was good enough for him. "This year so far has been fun for me," Jordan said. "I know that every team is coming out full force to get us. We know if we're going to stay a good team, we've got to be able to answer the bell each night." Jordan's final points of the night were two free throws with 18.5 seconds to go to give Chicago a 109-105 lead. Horace Grant made a free throw and Stacey King added two in the final six seconds for the Bulls. Scottie Pippen scored 25 points, King 18 and Grant 15 on a night when the Bulls, like Jordan, weren't hitting their shots. Chicago was outrebounded 46-36 and shot 48 percent from the floor. Pippen missed 12 of 23 shots from the field. But the Bulls play tough defense and they play it night after night. "Our defense kept us in the game," Pippen said. "Even though Michael didn't have what he considers a good game offensively, just having him on the court makes open shots for the rest of us. And if it's not his offense keeping us in the game, it's his defense." Heat 118, Kings 112  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. MIAMI (AP) -- Glen Rice and Steve Smith each scored 23 points, helping surprising Miami hand Sacramento its 43d consecutive road loss. Advertisement The Heat, an N.B.A. doormat in its first three seasons, improved its record to 7-3, good enough for first place in the Atlantic Division. Last year, Miami notched its seventh victory in its 27th game. Smith, who enjoyed a one-foot height advantage during the frequent stretches when 5-foot-7-inch Spud Webb guarded him, scored from both inside and outside and handed out seven assists. Webb answered by hitting eight of 12 shots for 16 points. Hawks 99, 76ers 92 PHILADELPHIA -- Kevin Willis, the N.B.A.'s leading rebounder, had 27 points and a career-high 23 rebounds as Atlanta won on the road. Rumeal Robinson had 16 points and a career-high 15 assists for the Hawks, who knocked the 76ers out of first place in the Atlantic Division. Charles Barkley had 35 points, 14 rebounds and six steals for the 76ers, who trailed by only 90-87 after two free throws each by Barkley and Armon Gilliam. Robinson then hit an 18-foot jumper to start a 7-2 rally that put the Hawks back in control. Warriors 116, Trail Blazers 112 PORTLAND -- Golden State improved its road record to 6-1 as Chris Mullin scored 25 points, including a 15-footer for the go-ahead basket with 1.2 seconds remaining. The Blazers were called for two 24-second violations in the final three and a half minutes, including one with 14 seconds remaining, setting up Mullin's wide-open winning shot. After Buck Williams' inbounds pass sailed out of bounds, Mario Elie was fouled and sank two free throws after time expired. Clyde Drexler had 31 points and 10 rebounds and Jerome Kersey 15 points and 16 rebounds for the Blazers, who lost at home for the second time this season. Lakers 98, Spurs 96 INGLEWOOD, Calif. -- Los Angeles defeated San Antonio for its sixth consecutive victory behind 18 points each by guards Sedale Threatt and Byron Scott. Advertisement The Lakers, routed by Phoenix in their first game following Magic Johnson's surprise retirement on Nov. 7, have won every outing since then. The Spurs (7-2) had their five-game winning streak snapped. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 24, 1991, on Page 8008011 of the National edition with the headline: PRO BASKETBALL; Jordan Finds a Groove In Time to Edge Sonics.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »