Advertisement By KEN SHULMAN and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES It was the reception the Italian national team should have gotten a month ago in Florence: 5,000 fans, welcome signs, singing and chanting, flags and banners draped about the packed streets and squares of this tiny town just a half-hour outside Rome. Even Sophia Loren, the official World Cup godmother, was on hand last Monday to kick off the first ball at the stadium where Italy will train during the monthlong soccer tournament. ''This enthusiasm cannot be anything but good for us,'' said Gianluca Vialli, the team scoring leader. ''We know we have to win this tournament. And this will help put us into the right frame of mind.'' Home Team Often Wins The chance to play on one's native soil has often been an advantage in the World Cup. Uruguay (in 1930), Italy (1934), England (1966), West Germany (1974), and Argentina (1978) won titles playing before their home crowds. So it was natural that Italy was counting on a healthy dose of fan support for an edge in the tournament, which opened in Milan yesterday and continues today with three games, including Italy against Austria in Rome. Advertisement Unfortunately, nothing of the kind occurred. On May 6, during the first national team reunion outside Florence, 20 people surrounded the car of Salvatore Schillaci, pounding on the hood and roof, spitting on the windshield, kicking in the taillights and shouting racial slurs. Advertisement Schillaci was an easy target. The 26-year-old striker plays for Juventus of Turin. Juventus is the team the fans of Florence's Fiorentina club love to hate. The rivalry, always simmering, had reached a boiling point as the teams played the first leg of the UEFA Cup final in Turin in a game marred by brutal fouls and by brawls in the stands. Another factor: Schillaci, who scored 15 goals and earned himself a spot on the national team, is Sicilian. There were four Juventus players at the May 6 reunion. Schillaci was the only southerner. He was also the only one whose car was attacked. At that evening's news conference, the Italian Soccer Federation president, Antonio Mattarrese, tried to play down the incident. ''It's obvious that with all the passion which whirls around our league, a few people are bound to lose control,'' Mattarrese said. ''I'm sure that by tomorrow it will all be forgotten.'' Another Obstacle Things did calm down temporarily, mainly because 12 of the 22 players Coach Azeglio Vicini had selected left the next day to join their club teams - Milan, Sampdoria of Genoa, Juventus and Fiorentina - each of which had reached the finals of the three major European Cup tournaments.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The absence of more than half his players was yet another unanticipated obstacle for Vicini. The Italian soccer league had finished its season a month early to allow the national team players an uninterrupted period of preparation. But the club teams' success cut sharply into Vicini's training time. Vialli and Roberto Mancini, forwards for Sampdoria, returned to Coverciano on May 10. But the five players involved in the Juventus-Fiorentina final would not rejoin their national team until May 17. And AC Milan's four nationals, including the sweeper Franco Baresi, the anchor of Italy's airtight defense, could not begin their World Cup preparations until May 25, just two weeks from Italy's kickoff match. Fanning the Flames Juventus took the UEFA Cup on May 16, which stoked the smoldering animosity of the Fiorentina fans. Two days later, when Juventus announced that it had purchased the 23-year-old Fiorentina star, Roberto Baggio, for a record price of nearly $14 million, the smoldering flared. Thousands of Fiorentina fans flooded Piazza Savanarola to pelt Fiorentina headquarters with bottles, bricks and bottle rockets. Fifty people were injured. Advertisement The next day, 2,000 of the nearly 5,000 fans on hand greeted the national team with a shower of coins and a chorus of boos and insults as they took the practice field. Baggio, who until the transfer to Juventus had been the darling of the Fiorentina crowd, was reduced to tears by cries of ''traitor'' and ''treason.'' After 40 minutes, Vicini pulled his team off the field. The next day, Vicini tried again. The boos grew louder. Fans shouted ''Viva Brazil'' until the normally patient coach ordered the stands cleared. Italy would train in silence, behind closed doors. ''We gave it a try,'' the 56-year-old coach said. ''I just can't expose my players to this sort of abuse, especially when they've done nothing to deserve it. Enough's enough. We don't have anymore cheeks to turn.'' If Italy has been unable to profit from the homefield advantage, it has not been relieved of its duty to make a good showing. Anything less than a quarterfinal berth will be considered failure. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 9, 1990, on Page 1001045 of the National edition with the headline: WORLD CUP '90;   Italians Hoping For Fans' Support.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »