Advertisement By MICHAEL MARTINEZ and  His run of success has been so long and so fruitful that Scott Erickson still isn't quite sure how to describe it. When he chose a word today, it almost sounded inappropriate. "Lucky," he said. "You never expect something like this to happen." That was what Erickson, the Minnesota Twins pitcher, said about his start this season: 9-2 with a 1.53 earned run average -- the lowest in the major leagues -- and two shutouts in 12 starts. A better word might be phenomenal. But the 23-year-old Erickson seems more nonchalant than awed by his achievements. He has been the Twins' most consistent winner and the chief reason they began their game against the Yankees tonight having won 10 in a row. 'A Lot of Confidence' Advertisement "He gives a team a lot of confidence when he's pitching," said Jack Morris, the veteran right-hander, who was given the locker next to Erickson's when Morris joined Minnesota this season. "You feel that if you catch and hit the ball and get a couple of runs early, you'll win the game. He's in one of those streaks that pitchers dream about." Advertisement Erickson, who faces the Yankees in the series finale Thursday, has actually been streaking since he was called up last June. He was summoned from the Twins' Class AA Orlando farm team and went 8-4 with a 2.87 e.r.a. But he won his final five decisions. Since last Sept. 2, he is 14-2. In his only losses this seasons, Minnesota was shut out, once by the Oakland A's and once by the Seattle Mariners. In his six career defeats, the Twins have scored a total of three runs. When he is asked to explain things, Erickson talks first about luck. Sure. "I feel like I've been really lucky," he said. "The guys have scored runs and played great defense. Nobody ever does it by themselves." Erickson was drafted by the Twins in 1989 while he was a junior at the University of Arizona. He had led the nation with 18 victories and pitched 173 innings, but he was only a fourth-round selection.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Many scouts figured Erickson would go higher, but his fastball was clocked in the high 80's. "I was told that teams couldn't figure giving me a $100,000 bonus when I threw only 85 miles an hour," he said. But most teams also could not anticipate the development of his sinker, which Erickson now throws in the low 90's. Combined with his slider, two different kinds of fastballs and a change-up, it has made him almost unhittable. Opponents are batting a collecitve .223 against him. "I've seen a few guys with good movement on it," Morris said of Erickson's sinker, "but he throws it harder than most. It runs down and in on right-handers." Erickson said he had eased up on a weight-lifting program from his college days. But it was enough to add five more miles an hour to his sinker. Advertisement "I just got consistent," he said. "I've been lucky, in the right place at the right time." He was apparently in the right spot last June, when the Twins passed on their pitchers at Class AAA Portland and chose Erickson, who was 8-3 for Orlando. "I never expected it," Erickson said. "I was shocked. It was the farthest thing from my mind." But from the moment he arrived, Erickson showed an ability to concentrate. In some ways, it has become a hallmark of his pitching. "The thing that impresses me is his ability to concentrate through the pressure of a nine-inning game," said Morris. "That's a great trait for a young pitcher, and it has a lot to do with his success. He gets into his own little world." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 13, 1991, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL: Two Young Pitchers Are Making Their Marks; Twins' Erickson Is Real Surprise With 9-2 Record.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »