Advertisement By GERALD ESKENAZI and  The top United States two-man bobsled team -- Brian Shimer and Minnesota Vikings running back Herschel Walker -- placed third in today's tune-up. The two-day competition begins Saturday. The United States' No. 2 team, Brian Richardson and Greg Harrell, was seventh in training runs up the mountain at La Plagne. The No. 1 American sled, with Shimer as driver, is expected to be in the running for a medal along with Italy, Switzerland, Germany, Canada and Britain. Walker is also on the United States' four-man sled, which will compete next weekend. And the way was cleared for the bobsled runs to be controversy-free today when Olympic officials bent the rules for the sake of safety, allowing bobsledders to use helmets bearing a German automaker's logo. Advertisement The helmets, which violate rules about advertising on uniforms and equipment, were approved for use by the International Olympic Committee after bobsled officials pointed out their superior strength. The helmets, used by 13 countries, were designed and provided by BMW. The company's emblem is on front. Krone Pulls Out of Downhill Advertisement Kristin Krone, the American skier who broke her left hand during the downhill run of the women's combined, has been forced to withdraw from Saturday's regular downhill. She tried to work out this morning at Meribel, but was unable to grip her left pole properly. She had tumbled into the protective netting in a spectacular accident on Wednesday. Three of her teammates will compete: Krista Schmidinger, Hilary Lindh and Edith Thys. The men do not return to the slopes of Val d'Isere until Sunday, for the super giant slalom, but when they do, the event's world champion will be missing. Stefan Eberharter, who won the Super G and the Alpine combined in last year's world championships, injured his left knee in practice today. Guide for the Games The office at La Lechere where the press guides are handed out looks like a small library. Virtually every country has its own information book.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The smallest guide belongs to New Zealand and consists of four pages, stapled together. But that includes a cover page. The team has seven competitors (not including demonstration sports) and nine officials and coaches. The 'Other' Card in Town VISA may be the official card and a sponsor of the Olympics, but that has hardly any impact on the average traveler. Virtually every hotel and business accepts American Express. And most places that will not accept the American Express credit card do gladly take American Express travelers' checks. Russian Biathlete Ailing ALBERTVILLE, France, Feb. 14 (Reuters) -- The top Russian biathlete, Sergei Tarasov, is in the intensive-care ward of a nearby hospital with a mysterious infection, the medical chief at the Winter Olympics said today. Advertisement Dr. Patrick Schamasch said that Tarasov was in a hospital in Chambery, and that that his condition was not life-threatening. "Tests show that he was suffering from a grave general infectious syndrome," Schamasch said. "As for what caused it, I can't tell you because we don't know." Schamasch described as speculation a French newspaper report that the Russian may have been infected as a result of blood doping. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 15, 1992, on Page 1001033 of the National edition with the headline: ALBERTVILLE; Shimer and Walker 3d In Last 2-Man Practice.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »