Advertisement By NELSON BRYANT The largest Atlantic salmon ever caught in North America was hooked, landed and released by Ken Jamieson of Houston on the evening of June 23. Jamieson was fly fishing the ledge area of Cross Point Pool on the Ristigouche River in New Brunswick, Canada, about 35 miles upstream from where the river enters the Baie des Chaleurs. Only grilse, small salmon that return to their natal streams to spawn after one year at sea, may be killed by salmon fishermen in New Brunswick. The salmon's weight was calculated to be 72 pounds, only a few pounds less than the largest rod-and-reel salmon on record, 79 pounds 2 ounces, caught on the Tana River in Norway in 1928. The largest Atlantic salmon taken by a fly fisherman weighed slightly more than 74 pounds. It was caught on the Aaroy River in Norway in 1921. Because Jamieson's fish could not be weighed, a formula for computing the poundage of a salmon was used: the length times the square of the girth divided by 800. The fish was 68 1/2 inches long; its girth was 29 inches. Jamieson, a longtime member of the Ristigouche Salmon Club, hooked the giant fish, a male, at 6 P.M. and fought it for 1 hour 15 minutes. From early evening until shortly after sunset is often the most productive time for salmon fishers. Jamieson was using a nine-foot Orvis boron-graphite rod, a No. 9 line and a 15-pound test tippet. (The tippet is the terminal end of the leader that is attached to the fly.) His fly was a No. 4 double-hook Silver Rat. Advertisement Jamieson was fishing out of Pine Island, one of two remote (no telephone link to the outside world) upriver salmon camps operated by the club, which has its main lodge in Matapedia, Quebec. As of this writing, he had moved farther upriver to the other camp, Indian House, and was not scheduled to return to the main lodge until tomorrow. Advertisement The fish was beached rather than netted. Jamieson, his guide, Charlie Adams, and two canoeists who had been coming down the river joined forces to measure the fish swiftly so it could be returned to the water alive. One canoeist took pictures of the salmon and promised to send the negatives to the club. Jamieson celebrated the evening of his catch in front of the camp's fireplace with two fellow club members, Beverly Matthews and James Dean, and a club guest, Dr. Phil Sheridan. Incorporated in 1880, the club has 29 members. Al Carter, manager of the Restigouche Salmon Club, said the fish was lighter in color than the average salmon and had a distinctive greenish hue on its head. It had a six- to eight-inch scar on its left side and two smaller scars on its back.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In the excitement of the catch, no one, unfortunately, thought of removing one or two scales from the fish. The age of a fish can be determined with considerable accuracy from its scales, just as one does with the annual growth rings on a tree. This extraordinary catch will probably not be equaled or surpassed for many years. Even if the huge salmon was caught again this season it would be slightly smaller. Salmon do little or no feeding during their procreative upriver journeys. In all the Atlantic salmon rivers of Canada, a quarter of a century usually goes by before a fish of 50 pounds or more is caught. In the record books of the International Game Fish Association, the largest Atlantic salmon taken on a fly rod (16-pound test tippet) is the 47-pounder caught by Donal C. O' Brien, Jr. on the Grand Cascapedia in Quebec in 1982. The 75-pounder from the Aaroy River is not listed. It was caught long before the association began keeping fly-fishing records, and there was no way of knowing the strength of the leader tippet that was used. For its fly-fishing records in both fresh and saltwater, the association has established tippet classes of 2, 4, 8, 12 and 16 pounds. (The breaking strength of the actual tippet used is tested by the organization.) The 79-pound-2-ounce salmon from the Tana River was caught on conventional gear: revolving spool reel and heavy rod. It is listed in the association's all-tackle records. In that record category, line with a breaking strength of up to 130 pounds may be used. According to Lee Wulff in his ''The Atlantic Salmon'' (Nick Lyons Books/Winchester Press, 1983), there is documentation of a 103-pound-2-ounce salmon taken in a net in the Devon River in Scotland. Because it was not weighed, Jamieson's salmon cannot be considered for a game fish association record, said Elwood Harry, the group's president. Harry said that in some instances the association had certified records of fish that were weighed with a hand scale and then released. Advertisement One suspects that Jamieson will not be troubled by this. He caught a magnificent fish that is even now sulking in some deep pool in the wild, unspoiled Ristigouche. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 1, 1990, on Page 8008006 of the National edition with the headline: Outdoors;   Huge Salmon Is Allowed to Get Away.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »