Advertisement  AP Cecil Fielder hit his major-league-leading 17th home run tonight, a two-run shot in the third inning, and Tracy Jones also hit a homer as the Detroit Tigers won for the eighth time in their last nine games, defeating the Texas Rangers, 5-1. Brian DuBois (2-2) yielded the Texas run and seven hits in six and two-thirds innings and struck out a career-high seven. Mike Jeffcoat (0-1), getting his first start of the season because Nolan Ryan is on the disabled list, gave up four runs and 10 hits in six and two-thirds innings. With two out in the third, Jeffcoat hit Lloyd Moseby with a pitch for the second time in the game and Fielder hit a homer to straightaway center field. Athletics 12, Brewers 5 OAKLAND, Calif. (AP) - Dave Henderson hit a pair of two-run homers and Rickey Henderson hit a three-run shot as Oakland won the game between the American league's division leaders. Advertisement Rickey Henderson's seventh home run broke a 2-2 tie in the second inning against Bill Wegman (2-1). Henderson doubled in the first inning and scored Oakland's first run on Jose Canseco's sacrifice fly. Henderson did not attempt a stolen base and remained two short of Ty Cobb's American League record of 892 career steals. Advertisement Oakland's Mike Moore (4-3) overcame a slow start to snap his two-losing streak. After giving up two runs in the first inning, Moore held Milwaukee to four singles until the seventh. White Sox 6, Orioles 3 BALTIMORE (AP) - Dan Pasqua drove in four runs with two homers as Chicago beat Baltimore for the sixth straight time. Pasqua hit a three-run homer in the first inning and a bases-empty shot in the seventh, giving him four for the season. It was the eighth time in his career he had hit two home runs in a game. Royals 4, Red Sox 1 BOSTON (AP) - Steve Jeltz, who started the game batting .067, broke a tie with a hit-and-run single in the seventh inning and Willie Wilson added a two-run single. Bret Saberhagen (3-3) allowed seven hits, only four after the second inning, struck out five and didn't walk a batter in his second consecutive complete-game victory. Mike Macfarlane began the seventh with a ground single to left and took second on Terry Shumpert's bloop single to right. Jeltz squared away to bunt on three pitches. Then, on a 2-1 count with the runners moving, he grounded a single to left-center, scoring Macfarlane. Mariners 4, Indians 1 SEATTLE (AP) - Ken Griffey Jr. doubled home two runs in a three-run first inning and Alvin Davis homered in the eighth. Erik Hanson (4-3) held Cleveland to five hits in eight innings while walking none and striking out nine. The Mariners took a 3-0 lead against Bud Black (4-2) in the first on three of their five hits.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Astros 7, Pirates 3 HOUSTON (AP) - Houston set a team record with eight stolen bases and Alex Trevino hit a two-run homer that broke an eighth-inning tie. The victory was only the fourth for the Astros in 17 games. Advertisement Eric Yelding tied a Houston record with four steals, including one during a four-run eighth inning. Jeff Baldwin drew a walk from Scott Ruskin (3-1) in the inning and Trevino hit his first homer of the season. Expos 4, Padres 0 MONTREAL (AP) - Dennis (Oil Can) Boyd shut out San Diego for the second time this season, Tim Wallach hit a homer for the third straight game and Tim Raines stole the 600th base of his career. Boyd (3-2) pitched a five-hitter, walked none and struck out eight. He has allowed only 2 earned runs in the last 29 innings. Dodgers 4, Cubs 3 CHICAGO (AP) - Kal Daniels's three-run homer capped a four-run eighth inning for Los Angeles. The Chicago starter, Mike Harkey, took a three-hit shutout into the eighth. But with one out, Mickey Hatcher, a pinch-hitter, singled to left and Lenny Harris beat out an infield single to third base. Stan Javier then singled to left, scoring Hatcher. Harkey got Eddie Murray, another pinch-hitter, on a ball hit back to the mound and was relieved by Paul Assenmacher (1-1), a left-hander. But Daniels, a left-handed hitter, spoiled the strategy by hitting a 1-2 pitch into the left-field bleachers. Giants 6, Cardinals 1 ST. LOUIS (AP) - Bob Knepper scattered seven hits in six and two-thirds innings and had a run-scoring double as San Francisco snapped a four-game losing streak. Knepper (3-2) entered the game with a 6.05 earned-run average. He doubled home a run during a three-run sixth that broke a 1-1 tie. Advertisement Gary Carter's run-scoring single off Greg Mathews (0-4) put the Giants ahead, 2-1. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 24, 1990, on Page D00025 of the National edition with the headline: Fielder Hits 17th As Tigers Win, 5-1.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »