Advertisement  Troy Aikman, given a clean bill of health by doctors at Baylor Medical Center in Texas, checked out of the hospital today and accompanied the Cowboys here for preparations for Super Bowl XXVIII on Sunday. In the Cowboys' 38-21 victory over San Francisco in the National Football Conference title game Sunday, the 49ers defensive lineman Dennis Brown smacked Aikman in the helmet with his knee early in the third quarter. The $50 million quarterback stayed in the game for one more play before leaving with what turned out to be a minor concussion. Team doctors became worried when Aikman at first didn't remember that his friend, center Mark Stepnoski, had a knee operation weeks ago. Then they asked him where the Super Bowl was going to be -- and he answered Henryetta, Okla., Aikman's hometown. Finally, he couldn't remember who was last year's Super Bowl most valuable player. It was Aikman. Aikman was checked into the hospital overnight for observation and doctors said a battery of tests, including a brain scan, revealed no injuries.  Aikman said today that he was fine and would be in the lineup. Advertisement "I don't remember anything that happened," he said of the play on which he was hurt. "I got to the hospital and wasn't very coherent. It was a really bad headache." Falcons Steal a Headline Advertisement There was football news coming out of Atlanta beyond the Super Bowl doings. The Falcons yesterday named an assistant coach, June Jones, to replace Jerry Glanville. Coach Tom Coughlin of Boston College was considered a finalist for the job along with Jones. Jones was an assistant coach of the offense for the past two seasons under Glanville. Others interviewed for the job were Gary Stevens, the offensive coordinator of the Miami Dolphins, and Sherm Lewis, the offensive coordinator of the Green Bay Packers. Jones was a backup quarterback with the Falcons from 1977-81. He has never been a head coach at any level. The selection is likely to be popular among Atlanta players, who had been outspoken in their support of Jones.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Glanville was dismissed Jan. 4 after his second consecutive 6-10 season. He had one year remaining on a five-year contract. Glanville was 28-38 in four seasons with the Falcons. (AP) Takeover Talent To say the least, John Butler, the Bills' general manager, thinks highly of Thurman Thomas, the Bills' prize running back. Listen to what Butler said about Thomas's 186-yard rushing performance Sunday against the Kansas City Chiefs: "We have a chance to witness one of the greatest running backs who ever put on a uniform. He's obviously shown us that. You can tell on days, in Thurman's eyes, when he's going to take it over and it's going to be his day. Sunday was definitely that day. "I dare someone to tell me there's a finer running back in the game. I'd like to know who he is. If he's still out there, I'll try and draft him. If he's retired, I'd wish him the best because he'll probably be in the Hall of Fame, where Thurman will be." The 42 1/2-Hour Party Advertisement The National Football League Players Association is sponsoring what it modestly calls the 1994 World's Largest Super Bowl Party. It may also be the longest. It will run 9 hours on Thursday, 9 on Friday, 11 on Saturday and 13 1/2 on Sunday at the Atlanta Apparel Mart. For $8 in advance or $10 at the door, ticket buyers can socialize with active and retired N.F.L. players, get photographs and autographs and shoot baskets with Ronnie Lott, oppose Chris Miller in the Ultimate Sports Golf Challenge and do mock sumo wrestling with coaching from Mike Kenn. Not enough? How about game-day brunch with N.F.L. players, perhaps Barry Sanders or Morten Andersen or Marion Butts. That's $45 extra for the first shift, $55 for the second. Proceeds will go to charity. Weather Worries Are Over Those who suffered through last week's uncharacteristically cold weather in Dallas or the usual biting cold in Buffalo found happiness when they arrived in Atlanta. The temperature climbed into the 60's today and is expected to stay there during the week. Game-day weather? It hardly matters. Super Bowl XXVIII will be played indoors in the Georgia Dome. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 25, 1994, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: SUPER BOWL XXVIII: NOTEBOOK; Aikman Gets the All-Clear Signal.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »