Advertisement By MICHAEL MARTINEZ and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES By now, victories have become little more than short pauses in long losing streaks. In their season of unending horror, the Yankees have moved through 61 games in painful jumps, losing three here, five there, at home and on the road, in daytime and at night, with one manager or the next. There is no end to it. They score as often as the United States World Cup team and lose with the same frequency. Tonight, it was a 4-2 defeat to the Milwaukee Brewers, and now the latest string of losses has reached four. They trudged back to their clubhouse when the game was over and then closed the doors so that Stump Merrill, whose 12th game as manager resulted in his ninth defeat, could offer some encouraging words. He is accentuating the good things, he said later, but he might as well try trading places with Lou Piniella. ''In no way did I chew them out,'' he said. ''The thing I want to do is find something positive, so that it doesn't become an effort to go out there the next day. Somewhere along the line, it's got to get better. We're going to knock the hell out of somebody -for their sanity as well as mine.'' The days have grown more trying for Merrill, who seems to age with each distressing defeat. The Yankees have lost 18 of 22 games, have scored two runs or less in 22 games and continue to be the worst hitting team in the American League. Advertisement Ah, but they had chances tonight, a fact that disturbs Merrill like nothing else. Bucky Dent, his predecessor, fretted nightly about the near misses, and so does Merrill. But the results are the same. Advertisement Tonight, they had seven base runners in the last two innings and scored just one run. They loaded the bases in the ninth with one out but went down meekly, as always: Bob Geren hit a bouncer in front of the plate to force out Randy Velarde at home, and Roberto Kelly bounced to third for another force that ended the game. Their two runs weren't exactly impressive, either. One run scored on a double play grounder by Jim Leyritz in the second inning, the other on a fly ball to right by Don Mattingly that was dropped by Mike Felder in the eighth. ''I've never been involved in anything like this,'' Mattingly said. ''You come to the park with hope every day, and you work to get the job done. But it gets hard when the game is over because you're down again.''  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Surely, no one could be lower than Tim Leary, who surrendered four first-inning runs, was backed by little support again and lost for the fifth time in five decisions. In his eight defeats, the Yankees have totaled just 12 runs. ''I feel bad for the guy,'' Mattingly said, ''but we're trying to get everybody runs, not just him. We can't seem to score for anybody.'' Off to Bad Start Leary allowed the first five Brewers he faced to reach base, and two scored on singles by Robin Yount and Dave Parker. Afterward, Mattingly wondered whether he should have turned a ground ball by B. J. Surhoff into a double play - allowing a run to score - instead of throwing home to stop the third run of the inning. But it's unlikely it would have mattered. ''Everything we do at this point, the other club takes advantage of,'' Merrill said. ''They find ways to get their runners in. It seems like we've got to play a picture-perfect game to win. Every single time we make a mistake, it costs us.'' Yanks Look to Columbus George Bradley, the Yankees' vice president of player personnel, is spending time watching the Yankees' Class AAA team at Columbus, which could mean there are more minor league players headed for New York. ''If we continue what we're going through now,'' Merrill said, ''that could be a real possibility. I don't think we would stand pat.'' Merrill said he received a call late Sunday from George Steinbrenner, but there were no storm warnings. ''I was surprised at how upbeat he was,'' Merrill said, ''considering we'd blown one game, could've won two and lost three. There were no ultimatums or anything like that.'' . . . Despite his 1-for-36 slump, Deion Sanders was back in the lineup tonight and singled in the eighth for his first hit since June first. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 19, 1990, on Page B00009 of the National edition with the headline: Sluggish Yankees Fall Meekly to Brewers for 4th Loss in Row.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »