Advertisement By GERALD ESKENAZI and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES A private commission released a report today that painted a picture of big-time college sports out of control, with powerless university presidents and with underachieving athletes being shoveled through a system primarily beholden to outside financial interests like television networks and booster clubs. In response, the panel, the Knight Foundation Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics, has recommended that college presidents assume total control of their athletic departments and the revenue those departments generate. The report was commissioned by the Knight Foundation 16 months ago after the foundation's president, Creed C. Black, became concerned over the state of intercollegiate athletics. Black was the publisher of The Lexington Herald-Leader at the time it won a Pulitzer Prize for uncovering recruiting violations at the University of Kentucky. Led by Hesburgh and Friday The commission, which was headed by the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, a former president of Notre Dame, and Willam C. Friday, a former president of North Carolina's consolidated state university system, also included 20 other members with backgrounds in education, politics and sports. Advertisement The Knight Foundation is one of the nation's largest foundations and was originally financed by Knight-Ridder Inc., the communications company. The report was said to be the first such extensive look at collegiate sports since 1929, when a Carnegie Foundation study concluded that college football abuses included athletes who didn't attend classes, recruiting violations and over-commercialization of the sport. Apparently, 62 years later, not much has changed. Advertisement Among the major recommendations included in the report released today were these: *Athletes should not be admitted to a university unless they are likely to graduate. *Booster clubs and trustees should cede all control of a school's athletics and its finances to the president. *University presidents should take an active role in the National Collegiate Athletic Association, which governs a great part of college sports. Hesburgh, a longtime advocate of presidential control of athletic programs, went beyond the report's already strong language today in his comments at a news conference here. "We would love to put the sleaziness of college athletics to rest with this report," he said. Whether or not that happens will depend on whether the university presidents are able to continue the pace of reforms they began in January at the annual N.C.A.A. convention. At that meeting, a so-called reform movement was able to place limits on the time athletes can spend on their sports, and to decrease athletic scholarships. Donna E. Shalala, chancellor of the University of Wisconsin and a member of the Knight Commission, said that even if the recommendations in the commission's report did not have the force of law, she believed that schools "would feel pressured into adopting the proposals so that the Government does not mandate the changes." Hesburgh disclosed that Notre Dame, which graduates about 90 percent of its varsity athletes, had already accepted the significant recommendations of the report. Ban on Outside Income?  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. One of the recommendations accepted by Notre Dame was a call for an end to the revenue coaches receive directly from sneaker and equipment companies for endorsements. A Notre Dame spokesman confirmed today that that Lou Holtz, the Fighting Irish's football coach, who had been receiving such payments, would no longer take money directly from equipment companies. His fees for endorsements -- and for the top coaches in the country, these endorsements can reach $100,000 annually -- will now go to the school. "At their worst, big-time athletics seem to have lost their bearing," the report stated. It described a public that believed colleges attempt to achieve goals "by hook or by crook." Advertisement The report also cited statistics showing that half the colleges with big-time basketball or football programs are 10 times more likely to admit an underqualified student who plays these sports than a school that doesn't possess such programs. And it points out that more than half of all Division I-A schools, those at the highest level of athletic competition, were under some form of N.C.A.A. sanctions in the 1980's. In spite of the extent of the report's recommendations, Representative Tom McMillen, a Maryland Democrat, who was an all-America basketball player at the University of Maryland and a player in the National Basketball Association, said the report did not go far enough. "The report doesn't reform college sports," McMillen said. "I don't think that can be done internally." Was he suggesting congressional involvement? "In 1905, Teddy Roosevelt, an ardent football fan, had to threaten that to get reform," the Congressman said. McMillen was referring to a Presidential report after nationwide reaction to football deaths on the college gridiron. That report led to changes in the rules of football, and to the creation of the N.C.A.A.. No 'Balance' McMillen also said that the huge amount of revenue from television coverage of the major college sports did not help the average student. "There's so much money now, it's difficult for colleges to strike a balance," he said. The report suggested that reform begin with a so-called "one-plus-three" model: the university president controlling three key phases of athletics -- academic integrity, fiscal management and independent certification. This last aspect, under an independent auditor, would determine whether the university had upheld standards with regard to graduation rates and to whether an athlete was truly working toward a degree. Members of the Knight Commission Lamar Alexander: Secretary of Education Creed C. Black: president, Knight Foundation, ex-officio Douglas S. Dibbert: General Alumni Association, U. of North Carolina John A. DiBiaggio: president, Michigan State University William C. Friday: president emeritus, University of North Carolina Thomas K. Hearn: president, Wake Forest University Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.: president emeritus, Notre Dame J. Lloyd Huck: chairman, Pennsylvania State University Bryce Jordan: president emeritus, Pennsylvania State University Richard W. Kazmaier: president, Kazmaier Associates Donald R. Keough: president, The Coca-Cola Company Martin A. Massengale: president, University of Nebraska Tom McMillen: House of Representatives, Washington, D.C. Chase N. Peterson: president, University of Utah Jane C. Pfeiffer: former chairman, NBC A. Kenneth Pye: president, Southern Methodist University Richard D. Schultz: executive director, N.C.A.A. Donna E. Shalala: chancellor, University of Wisconsin-Madison LeRoy T. Walker: treasurer, United States Olympic Committee Lames J. Whalen: president, Ithaca College Clifton R. Wharton: chairman and chief executive officer, TIAA-CREF Charles E. Young: chancellor, University of California, Los Angeles A copy of the commission's report can be obtained by writing to the Knight Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics, 301 South Brevard St., Charlotte, N.C., 28202. Because of an editing error, a sports article on March 20 about a private commission's report on problems in college athletics misstated the origin of the Knight Foundation, which financed the commission. A recent letter from the foundation points out that it was established in 1950 by John S. and James L. Knight, not by Knight-Ridder Inc. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this list appears in print on March 20, 1991, on Page D00025 of the National edition with the headline: COLLEGES; Panel Tells College Heads To Take Control of Athletics.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »