Advertisement By PHIL BERGER It wasn't a big night for sophisticated X's and O's. In the beginning and down the stretch, the strategy was simple: give the ball to Patrick Ewing. The Knicks' big man took it from there. Ewing scored a game-high 34 points and hauled in 11 rebounds as he led the Knicks to a 110-97 victory over the Sacramento Kings at Madison Square Garden last night. "We just wanted to come out and play hard," said Ewing. "They weren't doubling me as quickly as other teams have in the past." Working the Pick and Roll While Ewing was scoring the critical points, Knick guard Mark Jackson made sure he got the ball in position to overpower Sacramento defenders. Jackson repeatedly worked the pick and roll with Ewing, and when Sacramento defenders drifted to Ewing, Jackson made them pay, taking the ball directly to the hoop for driving baskets. Advertisement Jackson scored 20 points and had 15 assists as well as 9 rebounds, just missing a triple double. "There's not a better guard at reading the pick and roll than Mark," said Coach Pat Riley. "He played great for us. He made the plays." Advertisement The Ewing-Jackson combine broke open a game that had been close for three quarters, with New York leading by only 81-77 as the fourth period began. The Knicks' finishing drive pleased Riley, who noted that most of his players had to be affected by arriving back in New York from Miami early yesterday morning. "Most of the guys got home at 4 in the morning," said Riley. "But in this league you can't use that as an excuse. This was a game we could have lost and didn't. It gave us more of a cushion." No One to Counter Ewing Coach Rex Hughes of the Kings (17-34), who have won only 3 of 26 road games this season, was impressed by the Knicks. "We did not have anyone to defend a premier player like Ewing," Hughes said. "Jackson just played great. Ewing is playing like a warrior. He plays the same way every night. He gives 110 percent." By winning, the Knicks (33-18) widened their lead in the Atlantic Division to four games ahead of the second-place Boston Celtics, who did not play last night. Ewing and Jackson were not the only Knick scorers in double figures. Kiki Vandeweghe hit 6 of 9 field goals, 1 of 2 three-pointers and all 4 of his free throws for 17 points. John Starks had 10 points.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Charles Oakley led New York in rebounds with 15. Webb Sparks Kings Spud Webb and Wayman Tisdale were high scorers for Sacramento with 18 points each. Ewing powered the Knicks' first-quarter offense, scoring 8 points. But the 5-foot-7-inch Webb kept Sacramento close. His passes off the drive and his hustle on defense sparked the Kings and helped his teammate Duane Causewell score 7 first-quarter points. Advertisement The score was deadlocked at the end of the first quarter, 25-25. The Kings' backcourt of Dennis Hopson and Mitch Richmond got hot at the start of the second quarter, making Sacramento's first 11 points as the Kings took a 36-31 lead.  Knicks Overcome Deficit But Ewing kept the pressure on Sacramento, hitting shots in the lane and stepping outside to drill the occasional jump shot. With Jackson and Vandeweghe chipping in, the Knicks chipped away at a 45-35 Sacramento lead. Jackson tied the game at 51-51 with a layup 36.4 seconds before halftime and Vandeweghe's 3-point basket with 6.9 seconds left gave the Knicks a 54-51 halftime lead. Ewing led the Knicks with 18 points for the half, which saw the Knicks struggle most of the way but score the last 11 points to move ahead. Jackson made the big plays in the third quarter as the Knicks maintained the lead. First, he flipped an over-the-shoulder pass to a cutting Gerald Wilkins for a layup that made the score 64-59. Moments later, Jackson stole an outlet pass and drove for the basket to increase the Knicks' advantage to 66-59 . And still later, a smart pass by Jackson led to a Ewing dunk that put the Knicks up 68-62 . New York increased the lead to 77-67 on a layup by Xavier McDaniel, but Sacramento rallied behind Tisdale and Anthony Bonner to close the gap to 81-77 at the end of three quarters. REBOUNDS LIONEL SIMMONS, the Kings' second-leading scorer, missed his third straight game with a pulled groin muscle. . . . The Kings have not won at Madison Square Garden since 1981. . . . The Knicks will be hosts to the Cleveland Cavaliers tomorrow night and the Denver Nuggets on Saturday. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 19, 1992, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: PRO BASKETBALL; Ewing and Jackson a Winning Combo.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »