Advertisement By AL HARVIN At different periods over the last month, the Nets have had to make do without four of their five starters, everybody but Drazen Petrovic. Petrovic, New Jersey's shooting guard, has not missed a game all season: 76 games, 76 starts. But among the other starters this season, power forward Derrick Coleman has missed 15 games, center Sam Bowie 11, point guard Mookie Blaylock 10 and small forward Chris Morris 5. In the last three weeks, because of soreness in his right leg, Bowie has not started a game, but he has been playing off the bench. Fitch Makes No Predictions Morris missed two games this week with the flu. Coleman played only two quarters Tuesday night against Atlanta because of a boil on his left groin. Neither he nor Blaylock could play in the Nets' 109-103 victory over the Washington Bullets on Wednesday night in Landover, Md. Advertisement "I hope as soon as possible," Coach Bill Fitch said when asked when he thought the injured players would return to action. "I think Chris Morris will be back Friday. I'll just have to see how the others go. I can't say anything right now." Advertisement It's got to be soon. The Nets, battling for their first playoff berth since 1986, have only six games left in their regular season, starting with tonight's home game against the Cleveland Cavaliers, the only one of those teams that has better than a .500 record. They need healthy bodies now. Tate George, Kenny Anderson, Chris Dudley, Rafael Addison and Terry Mills have done a marvelous job as replacements for the injured players. Still, Fitch doesn't quite know what he would do if something happened to Petrovic.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "He gives us life and he gives us a shot at victory," the coach said of Petrovic, who has the second-best 3-point shooting percentage in the National Basketball Association behind Mike Iuzzolino of Dallas. Petrovic is first in percentage among those who have made 100 or more 3-pointers, and his total of 116 is second only to Milwaukee's Dale Ellis. If Petrovic keeps playing the way he has been and happens to lead the Nets to a seventh-place seeding in the Eastern Division playoffs, there is a chance he will cost the Nets a shot at the lottery and a first-round pick. But it's clear that nobody around the Meadowlands will be mad at him for that. When Willis Reed, the Nets' equivalent of a general manager, made the deal for Petrovic with Portland in January 1991, he promised the Trail Blazers a conditional first-round draft pick.  No Regrets About Deal "I think the most important thing for the Nets now is to be in the playoffs," said Reed, who has no regrets about the deal. "If we're going to be in the playoffs with a pick or without a pick I can live with it either way. "If we lose the pick this year, it'll mean we gave up a 13th or 14th pick in the draft for Petrovic. I think that is still a good deal because he's our leading scorer." He's also the Nets' iron man. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 10, 1992, on Page B00018 of the National edition with the headline: PRO BASKETBALL; Nets' Iron Man Stands Alone In Midst of Injured Teammates.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »