Advertisement By JACK CURRY While Robert Nederlander counts his final days as the general managing partner of the Yankees, at the winter meetings in Miami Beach, the club must make certain its disarray off the field does not deter it from improving the product on the field. Nederlander is said to still be in charge of the Yankees and he has not shown much willingness to spend George Steinbrenner's cash on free agents. So the team's general manager, Gene Michael, who has not been free to make offers and has been working without a winter budget, is searching for inexpensive methods to better the Yankees at third base and starting pitching. Offer to Buechele Michael is scheduled to meet tomorrow with Alan Meersand, the agent for third baseman Steve Buechele. The Yankees were prepared to make an offer to the free agent two weeks ago before Nederlander and Leonard Kleinman, the chief operating officer, squelched it. Advertisement Michael has still not made an offer to Buechele, but Meersand said he wants a four-year, $13 million guaranteed contract for his client. The Yankees may wind up getting him by default because interest in Buechele, who played for Texas before being traded to Pittsburgh in late August, seems to be dwindling. Advertisement "Gene told me he had a plan he would like to follow through on," said Meersand. "He is hoping to convince his superiors to do it. He told us not to cross the Yankees off our list." The Yankees have talked about dealing second baseman Steve Sax, who has a four-year, $12.4 million contract, to open up a salary slot for Buechele. They would then be able to switch Pat Kelly back to his natural position at second base and give themselves three elite defensive infielders in Buechele, Kelly and first baseman Don Mattingly.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Although third base is the crisis point, Michael would also like to snare a starting pitcher. There are not many pitchers who could seemingly squeeze beneath the Yankees' budget. Among the pitchers being dangled are Chuck Finley of the Angels, Seattle's Erik Hanson and Kevin Appier and Tom Gordon of the Royals. Michael has spoken to members of his front office about dealing Sax, either Jesse Barfield or Mel Hall and minor league prospects to the Angels for Finley. The Yankees do not want to deal Roberto Kelly, the 27-year old outfielder who is perhaps the most marketable player on the club. "We want to have the best team we possibly can," Kleinman said. "That is our goal. We have an obligation to act responsibly to accomplish that." Long-Term Lock Up The Yankees have expressed an interest in Pittsburgh's Barry Bonds, who would certainly not come cheaply in a trade and than would probably exceed $6 million in salary next season. If the Yankees were to acquire Bonds, they would obviously want to lock him up in a long-term contract and the pricetag would be extremely high. Unless the Yankees make a drastic turnaround from the frugal style they have displayed, Bonds in the Bronx seems unlikely. So despite the fact that the focus shifted last week to who will replace Nederlander -- including speculation about Steinbrenner's returning -- the Yankees must first find replacements at third base and on the mound, two spots in which the team has been lacking for a long time. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 8, 1991, on Page 8008009 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Yanks Are Slow to Spend But Eager for a Bargain.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »