Advertisement By TIMOTHY W. SMITH Houston's run-and-shoot offense is always susceptible to the whims of a stiff breeze. And the Oilers have shown that their rushing attack isn't steady enough to keep the pressure off their passing game. It's a good thing the Oilers found their defense just in time for Saturday's American Football Conference divisional playoff game against the Broncos at Mile High Stadium in Denver. The Oilers' defense appears to have hit its stride. In the first playoff game last week, Houston's defense stuffed the Jets on a fourth-and-goal at the 3, came up with an interception on another goal-line situation and shut out New York in the second half of their 17-10 victory. It was the sixth consecutive game in which the Oilers' offense had not scored more than two touchdowns. But it didn't matter, because the defense provided the team with more than enough breathing room. After the game, the Houston defensive coordinator, Jim Eddy, was more than a little giddy. "We reminded ourselves what kind of defense we can play," Eddy said. "That's so important because in the playoffs you win with defense and this gives us some momentum. Advertisement "I'm excited about going to Denver. Like I told our staff, I think we match up well against their people in how our front plays their front and how our coverages work against their receivers." He was also optimistic about the prospects of frustrating Denver quarterback John Elway. Advertisement The Oilers defeated the Jets without the services of two of their starting defensive linemen and a linebacker who wasn't completely healthy. Defensive tackle Ray Childress missed the game with a cracked rib, defensive tackle Doug Smith went out of the game in the second quarter with a rib injury and linebacker Lamar Lathon played at about 80 percent with a rib injury, though he led the team with 11 tackles. All three are expected to be in the lineup against the Broncos, which should strengthen the Oilers' run defense and pass rush. Houston humiliated Denver in their Oct. 6 game at the Astrodome, 42-14. In that contest, the Oilers took a 35-0 halftime lead with the help of three successive Bronco turnovers converted into 21 points and a blocked punt for a touchdown.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. That victory was inspired by defense. Oilers cornerback Cris Dishman intercepted an Elway pass and returned it 43 yards to the 1 to set up a score, then returned a fumble by running back Steve Sewell for another touchdown. It was the only game this season in which the Broncos have given up more than 20 points. Houston linebacker Al Smith said the Oilers' defense had to do the same thing to Denver this time around. "We have to give our offense as many chances as possible to do well," he said. "We can't put them in any kind of hole. We understand that. It's up to us to come through, like we did last time. We put that game away early. I'd like to see us do it again." Denver Coach Dan Reeves hasn't really forgotten the sting of that loss. After the Oilers won on Sunday, Reeves and his assistant coaches headed for their training facility and began watching game film in preparation for Saturday's game. Reeves said that redemption would play a major role in the Broncos-Oilers game, as well as in the other A.F.C. playoff game between Buffalo and Kansas City. "The Oilers embarrassed us, and the Bills were embarrassed by Kansas City," Reeves told The Denver Post. "To me, that's the great thing about these games. It ought to be interesting to see what happens this time. Nobody likes to get embarrassed again." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 2, 1992, on Page B00010 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL; Defense For Oilers Is Now in Spotlight.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »