Advertisement By GEORGE VECSEY AS we approach the middle of the baseball season, it is time to give our local lads a bit of breathing room. Get off their case. Get real. These Mets are not going to catch the Pirates, and these Yankees are not going to bash their way to the higher reaches of their division. Just ain't gonna happen. Out of sheer human kindness, it is time to stop heaping expectations upon them, taking each tentative step as a sign. When the Mets or Yankees say "Goo-goo," the entire metropolitan area gets excited and thinks they are child geniuses. It's just not fair. If you stop to think about it, the biggest liability the two New York teams carry around with them is the weight of history, the NEW YORK across the front of their road uniforms. Advertisement New Yorkers tend to talk and read and ask questions and remember. This does not help a ball team on the cusp of respectability. Advertisement While the Yanks were tearing it up on a recent home stand, fans and writers, present company included, starting dusting off words like Ruthville and M & M Boys and Joe D. Despite that sad pitching staff, some of us started frothing about the glories of Yankee Stadium, the remembrance of home runs past. Last time we looked, the Yankees had a six-game losing streak going into last night. Sorry, boys. It won't happen again. Because everybody "out there," including other teams, views New York with a mixture of fear, loathing and respect, nobody is ever lulled by the Mets or Yankees. And worse, everybody in New York says, "We want to wake up in a city that never sleeps." That is to say, we have all been Steinbrennered and Trumped and Koched into thinking we somehow deserve bigger and better than everybody else. We're Number One. The poor Mets, of course, have been laboring under all kinds of misconceptions for years. Their fans and probably their front office and even numb scribblers like yours truly keep living in the past. All of us keep waiting for Calvin Schiraldi to come in and get hammered. We keep waiting for Bob Stanley to heave another wild pitch. We keep waiting for the ball to roll between Bill Buckner's legs.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Hasn't everybody noticed? The ball rolls through the Mets' legs now, and has for a couple of years. I'm not even sure the Mets are not laboring under a curse like the one on the Red Sox, for selling Babe Ruth. Is it possible the Mets are laboring under a third-baseman curse? Think about it. When the Mets won the World Series in 1969 they allowed Ed Charles to retire as soon as his feet hit the ground after his joyous victory leap toward the moon. They even managed to alienate him out of a coaching job the next season. Next World Series victory: 17 years later. History then repeated. The Mets managed to alienate Ray Knight, the emotional hero of the 1986 World Series, offering him a modest one-year contract under the early sub-clinical stage of management collusion. Advertisement Apparently not a non-person like Dave Johnson, the 1986 manager, Knight was invited back for the old-timers' game last Saturday. And somebody told this story: One night in 1985 or 1986, a female camera holder was doing her job in the Met clubhouse when Len Dykstra made an ugly gesture or two in her direction. Suddenly, Lenny was picked up by the scruff of the neck and hauled into the trainer's room. Some noise was heard. Then Lenny shuffled back and apologized. Who set Lenny straight? Ray Knight. Knight talked to everybody: Hernandez, Carter, Strawberry. That kind of do-the-right-thing mentality has been conspicuous by its absence for years. Leadership is not nearly as important as talent, however. The Mets are not going to suddenly assert themselves with a whiff of ammonia under their noses. Yes, Buddy Harrelson does some weird things. Why did it take two months to settle the lineup and the defense? Why did Ron Darling bat with the bases loaded Monday when he was coming out of the game? Why doesn't Harrelson tell the Mets to play nice with Gregg Jefferies? Still, Harrelson is a rather complicated adult managing a team with huge flaws and high expectations. Darryl Strawberry was a giant circuit breaker, drawing all the overloads and faulty wiring onto him. Without him, this is a team of good pitching, a few decent hitters, a dull bullpen and a horrid defense. Let's lower our voices. Let's give them a break. Let us enjoy any advances by the young players. Let us celebrate Mattingly and HoJo. With this attitude, whenever the Mets and Yankees win a game, it will seem like fun. Let's enjoy ourselves this summer. Let's keep cool. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 19, 1991, on Page B00005 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; Let's Lower Our Goals For Locals.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »