Advertisement By NELSON BRYANT Many of the books that come my way from publishing houses for possible review deal with presumably better ways to outwit some species of fish or game animal, or describe in detail the twists and turns of foot trails that lead one through forest and mountain in various regions of this country. Wendell Berry's ''What Are People For?'' (North Point Press, 210 pp., $19.95), was buried in a box of such tomes that arrived during the last few months. After having perused them, commenting on those that in my judgment had true merit, I dug my way down to Berry's essays. I am grateful for the exhumation, for Berry's observations have helped me follow another trail, one that I have been feeling my way along barefoot in the dark. His essays haven't turned night into day, haven't created a perfect map for me to follow, but they have helped me stay on course a bit farther along the way to understanding what is wrong with my species' relationship with the natural world. And, I might add, if the degradation of that world continues, there will be no need for fishing rods, upland bird dogs or waterfowl blinds. Also a poet, novelist, educator and farmer, Berry has a sparse style. Sometimes, until the reader has been able to shoulder the full weight of the thought being pursued, the words seem almost pedestrian. Advertisement Take, for example, the following lines from ''Healing,'' one of the two prose poems that begin the book. Advertisement True solitude is found in the wild places, where one is without human obligation. One's inner voices become audible. One feels the attraction of one's most intimate sources. In consequence, one responds more clearly to other lives. The more coherent one becomes within oneself as a creature, the more fully one enters into the communion of all creatures. One returns from solitude laden with the gifts of circumstance. Berry lives with his wife, Tanya, on a hill farm in Kentucky's Henry County, the same county in which he was born in 1934. It is a working farm and Berry is a working farmer who deplores the demise of the small farm in this country. He also deplores waste and the relentless pursuit of pleasure in the wrong places at the wrong time.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. These marvelously provocative essays, many previously published in various periodicals, shine with honesty and tenderness. They are also tough and prophetic. Some Berry observations on which to ruminate: ''We must achieve the character and acquire the skills to live much poorer than we do. We must waste less. We must do more for ourselves and each other. It is either that or continue merely to think and talk about changes that we are inviting catastrophe to make. ''We must have the sense and the courage, for example, to see that the ability to transport food for hundreds or thousands of miles does not necessarily mean that we are well off. It means that the food supply is more vulnerable and more costly than a local food supply would be. ''Our most serious problem, perhaps, is that we have become a nation of fantasists. We believe, apparently, in the infinite availability of finite resources. Our leaders have been for many years as oblivious to the realities and dangers of their time as were George III and Lord North. They believe that the difference between war and peace is still the overriding political difference - when, in fact, the difference has been diminished to the point of insignificance. How would you describe the difference between modern war and modern industry -between, say, bombing and strip mining, or between chemical warfare and chemical manufacturing? The difference seems to be only that in war the victimization of humans is directly intentional and in industry it is 'accepted' as a 'trade-off.' '' Advertisement Noting that our society may be more devoted to pleasure than has any other in the past, Berry observes that the existence of ''pleasure industries'' means that ''pleasure has gone from our workplaces and our dwelling places.'' ''Our workplaces are more and more given over exclusively to production, and our dwelling places to consumption,'' he writes. ''More and more, we take for granted that work must be destitute of pleasure. More and more, we assume that if we want to be pleased we must wait until evening, or the weekend, or vacation, or retirement. The nearly intolerable irony in our dissatisfaction is that we have removed pleasure from our work in order to remove 'drudgery' from our lives. If I could pick any rule of industrial economics to receive a thorough re-examination by our people, it would be the one that says that all hard physical work is 'drudgery' and not worth doing.'' When he writes of the well-run farms that once graced the county in which he lives, Berry isn't simply being nostalgic. Over and over, the necessity for a new awareness of man's inextricable kinship with his own kind and the remainder of the natural world emerges. There is no way that all of us can move to a hill farm, as Berry has done, in order to live in better harmony with ourselves, our loved ones and the natural world. But we can, with those goals in mind, pare away damaging excesses. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 8, 1990, on Page 8008005 of the National edition with the headline: Outdoors;   A Farmer's Food for Thought.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »