Advertisement By STEVEN CRIST A busy weekend of prep races failed to winnow many candidates or crown any strong new favorites for the Breeders' Cup races at Gulfstream Park Nov. 4. When preliminary entries are taken today, the fields for five of the seven cup races are likely to be large and lacking a strong favorite. The only races with clear choices are Easy Goer in the $3 million Classic and Bayakoa in the $1 million Distaff. The others are wide open, even more so after the weekend's preps. Two Grade I grass races yesterday, the Washington D.C. International at Laurel and the Rothman's International at Woodbine, failed to clarify the picture for the $2 million Breeders' Cup Turf. In the International, Caltech led every step of the way on a very soft course to beat the favored Yankee Affair. Caltech, a 3-year-old who was running in $25,000 claiming races this summer before blossoming when switched to the grass, is owned by David Romanik, an attorney for Gulfstream, and will definitely run in the Turf. Advertisement Yankee Affair, a 7-year-old gelding not nominated to the Breeders' Cup and unlikely to be supplemented for $400,000, may make his next start in Tokyo in the Japan Cup on Nov. 26 where he might face Hawkster, another contender for the grass championship who is passing the Breeders' Cup. Advertisement Caltech, an Explosive Bid colt trained by Eduardo Azpurua, paid $28.80 for $2 to win and ran the mile and a quarter under Rene Douglass in 2:07 2/5. Hodges Bay Wins Rothman's In the Rothman's, the veteran New Yorker Hodges Bay charged from last place to edge out Steady Power, with Charlie Barley third and St. Andrews eased in last place as the favorite. Hodges Bay, trained by Mike Freeman and ridden by Jean Cruguet, paid $21.80 and ran the mile and a half miles on soft turf in 2:33 4/5. Hodges Bay is a longshot possibility for the Turf.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In the other Breeders' Cup race on the grass, the $1 million Mile, last year's runner-up may be this year's favorite. Steinlen, who was second to Miesque last year, won his fourth consecutive race Saturday when he took the $187,850 Keeneland Breeders' Cup. Steinlen, who also won the Arlington Million on Sept. 4, would have a very strong claim to the national grass championship if he wins the Mile. Simply Majestic, third in last year's Mile and back for another bid this year, also won Saturday, beating Maceo by a length in the $149,850 Miami Breeders' Cup at Calder. Grass Fillies Vie There is no Breeders' Cup race for grass fillies, but three stakes for that group were run yesterday. At Laurel, the French import Lady Winner won the All Along Stakes by six lengths over Capades, and at Woodbine, the British filly Braiswick took the E. P. Taylor Stakes. At Aqueduct, the Long Island Handicap was switched from grass to dirt, and the New York-bred Warfie ran down River Memories to win by 1 1/4 lengths. Also at Laurel yesterday, Cricket Ball, a 6-year-old European campaigner making his American debut, beat Oraibi to win the $250,000 Laurel Dash at six furlongs on the grass. Both horses may now be entered for either the Mile or the $1 million Breeders' Cup Sprint at six furlongs. The two Breeders' Cup races for 2-year-olds, the Juvenile and Juvenile Fillies, gained some new propects at Laurel Saturday. The Laurel Futurity and Selima were switched from grass to dirt and produced a pair of upset winners. Go and Go, an Irish-bred Be My Guest colt making his American debut, won the Futurity by a head from Robyn Dancer. In the Selima, Sweet Roberta I, a Roberto filly, scored by 10 lengths. Entries for the seven cup races will be announced tomorrow. Final fields with post positions and riders will be drawn Nov. 1. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 23, 1989, on Page C00011 of the National edition with the headline: Cup Outlook Is No Clearer.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »