Advertisement By THOMAS GEORGE There is strong sentiment among the 28 National Football League owners convening in Dallas today that too much polarization remains among them for one of four candidates to gain the 19 votes needed to become the league's next commissioner. The way the muddled search and process has unfolded, however, could mean a commissioner will, indeed, be elected. The new six-member search committee of owners appointed in July by the outgoing commissioner, Pete Rozelle, will recommend four candidates: J. Patrick Barrett, 52 years old, the New York State Republican Party chairman; Willie Davis, 55, a former Green Bay Packers star who is a broadcasting businessman in Inglewood, Calif.; Jim Finks, 62, the New Orleans Saints' president and general manager, and Paul Tagliabue, 48, an N.F.L. attorney. Report Due Today The search committee will make a report at 1 P.M. today, then Rozelle will hear nominations from the committee and the floor. All nominees will remain on the ballot through successive ballots unless a candidate withdraws his name. Rozelle will count the votes. Nominating can be reopened and the voting procedure can be changed if 19 owners vote to do so. Several owners said that they did not believe a commissioner would be elected until after the 1989-1990 season and that this meeting would be just another step in the process, like the session in Chicago on July 6. In that meeting, Finks fell three votes short of the job and 11 owners abstained in voting in defiance of the original search committee's procedures. Some owners said they were ready to appoint an interim commissioner - someone already in the N.F.L. office - and a board of three owners to lead the league until after the Super Bowl. They want to do this to free Rozelle, who thought he would be replaced before the season. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 10, 1989, on Page D00029 of the National edition with the headline: Commissioner Voting May Face a Standstill.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »