Advertisement By ROBIN FINN Out in the breeze and sunshine on Court 16, the man who had suffered the worst Grand Slam defeat in his storied career just the night before within the gloom of the cavernous Stadium Court contemplated a shot and doubled up in a convulsion of laughter. There's nothing, John McEnroe said later, like a change of scenery. Yesterday, the cast of characters who came and went on Court 16, the intimate 4,100-seat tree-framed arena at this unintimate concrete facility, read like a soap opera. First there was Arantxa Sanchez Vicario, the little tugboat of a player who bested Steffi Graf at the French Open and became Spain's first tennis heroine since Lili Alvarez went to the final at Wimbledon in 1928. Sanchez Vicario, the Open's sixth seed, made expeditious work of Cammy MacGregor, 6-1, 6-3, and made no secret of the fact that she envisions a second Grand Slam title for herself. Life at the Edge For the chatty Sanchez Vicario, mistress of five languages and a devastating drop shot, ''Everything is superfine.'' Advertisement The next match on court was sobering just by virtue of the facial expressions of its two participants. Tim Mayotte is a player forever on the fringe of great achievements, forever on the fringe of the top 10 but not intrusive enough to slip in among the top 5. The poker-faced Mayotte, for whom every match is approached like an ominous calculus problem, has never passed beyond the Round of 16 here, and would like to before, at the age of 29, he falls a generation behind the times. Advertisement Mayotte yesterday battled Christo Van Rensberg, a South African with a Jimmy Connors-like delivery who had proven himself a singles titlist just once before, and had done it at the expense of both Connors and Mayotte. But that happened in Orlando in 1987, and since then, the 26-year-old van Rensberg, a resident of Great Neck. L.I., hasn't proven a dangerous singles oppponent. Gentle Beeps and Clangs As the pair tried to concentrate on their match, the more bucolic features of Court 16 began to assert themselves. Just beyond the east fence, a phalanx of trucks rumbled to and fro, providing a construction-site atmosphere as they beeped regularly while backing up. The stands began to fill with patrons who had just stocked up at the adjacent food concession, a stand that sells beverages in aluminum cans to spectators about to enter an arena composed of aluminum stands. The clatter that ensues once the fans finish their drinks and send the cans clanging to the ground is hard to escape. Once the wind kicks up at Court 16, the players not only must adjust to the continual ebb and flow of fans seeking greener pastures, but must collect their trash as well. ''Wait a minute, a napkin's gonna blow on court,'' said Mayotte, halting play in the first game of the third set after he'd laboriously claimed the first two, 6-2, 6-2. Hometown Coaching But what is charming about Court 16 is that fans who make the journey all the way from a player's hometown, as did a legion of folks from Springfield, Mass., can monitor their favorite's progress at a distance so close that they can coach him. Advertisement ''Do it for Springfield!'' they shrilled during the third set tie breaker, and Mayotte did, advancing to the third round with a 6-2, 6-2, 7-6 victory.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ''I don't really expect that I can win the tournament,'' Mayotte said after the obligatory embraces from his hometown boosters. ''I've accomplished so much already, and I'd just like to enjoy the three or four years I have left.'' But Mayotte couldn't help but have his interest piqued by the untimely dismissals of McEnroe and Mats Wilander, the fourth- and fifth-seeded players. Mayotte was once seeded sixth, so he knows he's capable of closing in on the advanced rounds here. Game Is 'Getting Deeper' ''That opens up the whole thing up,'' he said, ''and it makes you see that tennis is truly getting deeper all the time, and if you don't go out ready to play, you're going to lose.'' McEnroe was shocked by his listless second round-play and his defeat in four sets by Paul Haarhuis, a Dutch qualifier so obscure that it seemed only appropriate when he described himself as hailing ''from Mars.'' After having a night to sleep off the loss, McEnroe returned to Court 16 yesterday for a doubles match with his partner, Mark Woodforde, the Australian who defeated him in the second round here last year. There was a stampede toward the court before McEnroe arrived, and when he walked in for the match, the 4,100 in the stands, and an additional 1,000 waiting outside, stood and cheered. McEnroe, touched, briefly put a hand to his blue bandana headband in salute to their salute. Then, with his brother Patrick on hand for moral support and Chevy Chase in the front row for comic relief, a day late and on the wrong court McEnroe put on the sort of dazzling show that's expected of him. It All Comes Back His first serve blazed into the appropriate service corner, his volleys curled over the net as if he'd used a paring knife to carve them; he even won the coin toss at the start of the match, elected to serve, and blazed through the game to win it at love. Advertisement McEnroe compensated for some rusty play from Woodforde, who is still recovering from a case of shin splints, and the pair prevailed, 6-7, 6-1, 6-4, against the California team of Matt Anger and Robert Van't Hof, to the delight of the partisan fans. After the doubles match, which McEnroe described as ''therapeutic,'' the player hustled off to the lounge, surrounded by autograph-seekers and celebrities. His mind, however, was still on the singles match that got away. ''Playing doubles helps bring the disappointment out of you,'' said McEnroe, who was clearly as baffled by the sudden return of his artistry as he was by its departure. ''Concentration is not my strong suit at this point in my life, and I know it's going to have to be much better if I'm ever going to win a tournament like this again.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 1, 1989, on Page A00021 of the National edition with the headline: Sanchez and Mayotte Outdo Debris and Din.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »