Advertisement By JACK CURRY and  Gene Michael met secretly with Brien Taylor and his mother two days ago in North Carolina, but the Yankees' general manager said today that he did not make progress in his attempt to sign baseball's No. 1 draft pick and that the club might not be able to sign him at all. The Taylor family has set Sunday as the deadline for reaching agreement with Brien; otherwise, the 19-year-old pitcher will attend junior college and cease talking to the Yankees. While Michael was speaking with Brien for a few minutes Wednesday at East Carteret High School and having a one-hour meeting with Bettie Taylor, Yankee officials were telling reporters that the team's general manager was not in North Carolina. But now Michael acknowledges he was. "It was a good meeting, but it did not solve anything because they want a Van Poppel contract," said Michael in part of a four-paragraph statement the Yankees issued today. The Van Poppel Factor Advertisement The Taylor family and their adviser, Scott Boras, are seeking a three-year, $1.2 million major league contract for the left-hander similar to what Todd Van Poppel, also a Boras client, received from Oakland last year. The Yankees, who have offered a package of $650,000 and would probably raise it to at least $750,000, do not want to sign Taylor to a major league contract for several reasons, which they cited in today's statement. Advertisement If they sign Taylor to such a contract, he must make it to the club's 25-man roster in three years or be exposed to waivers. A major league contract also means Taylor must be on the 40-man roster as soon as he signs and would have to be put on the 15-man designated expansion list next year, when the National League adds two teams. In essence, the Yankees would waste a roster spot while Taylor works his way through the minors. "I explained to her the problems we had with a major league contract," Michael said in the statement. "It forces us to rush Brien when it may not necessarily be in his best interest as a player." Boras, who was traveling today, did not return two telephone messages left at his office. The Taylors have an unlisted telephone number in Beaufort, N.C., and a person who answered the phone at the Thomas Seafood Company in Beaufort early this afternoon said Mrs. Taylor had already left work for the day. First Time Since 1967 The Yankees have not had the overall No. 1 pick since 1967, when they chose Ron Blomberg, and their inability to sign Taylor would be a public relations nightmare. If they do not sign Taylor before he attends classes Tuesday at Louisburg Junior College in North Carolina, they would have about a week after the baseball season ends in late May to try again. Otherwise, Taylor would become eligible for next June's draft.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Since Michael was unavailable to comment and Manager Stump Merrill kept his office door closed before tonight's game here with the Blue Jays, reaction to the statement was limited to the Yankee players. Don Mattingly said it would be "unfair" to the players for Taylor to occupy a roster spot. Other Yankees were more critical. "I think he's getting bad advice from a money-hungry agent," said Steve Farr. "He might go to college and take an aluminum bat off the forehead." "Has he ever had 600 grand? If not, he's nuts," said Mel Hall. "I don't think he'll ever get that again." The Boras Factor Four of the top eight picks in the 1991 draft are pitchers represented by Boras and all remain unsigned. Boras apparently has convinced the Taylor family that Brien deserves a contract similar to the one the agent helped Van Poppel get from Oakland. Advertisement Van Poppel was chosen 14th in the first round by the Athletics, after he had informed teams he did not wish to be drafted and would attend the University of Texas. Oakland gambled and got him with a complex and lucrative contract. The Yankees think Taylor's situation is much different because he had never expressed an interest in going to college. But the Taylor faction does not agree and Brien is apparently ready to report to school Sunday for freshman orientation. "I will continue to talk with Mrs. Taylor through Sunday, which is the imposed deadline, in hopes of getting Brien to become a Yankee," today's statement from Michael ended. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 24, 1991, on Page 1001033 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Taylors Vs. Yanks: 9th Inning.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »