Advertisement By WILLIAM N. WALLACE Can Rutgers use a larger football stadium? Is more better? Those are among the issues to be presented at public hearings next Monday in Trenton before the appropriations committee of the New Jersey State Senate. The state's Sports and Exposition Authority is seeking the approval of a $416 million bond issue that would refinance $223 million of oustanding bonds at lower interest rates, build a convention center in Atlantic City and add 35,000 seats to Rutgers Stadium in Piscataway, N.J., which now has 23,000. The projection is that once the Big East Conference gets going with a round-robin football schedule in 1993, the Scarlet Knights will fill those seats and need more. Games at Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J., where Rutgers has never drawn well, would be abandoned. Speaking of Giants Stadium, the Sports Authority is negotiating to borrow $30 million from United Jersey Bank to purchase the 76 suites on the mezzanine level of the stadium. The authority has an option, at $25 million, to purchase those suites from a Connecticut company, Skybox Partners Limited. Advertisement The MARA family provided the financing for the suites when the stadium was built 15 years ago and subsequently sold the leases. Rentals of the suites generate about $1.3 million a year according to JOHN SAMERJAN, the director of public relations for the Sports Authority. This may not be a propitious time to seek financing for fun and games. But the Sports Authority, said BOB MULCAHY, its president, will count on its record as a generator of revenue to convince the legislators. Advertisement According to Mulcahy it provides a billion dollars in economic activity annually plus thousands of jobs and has generated a $60 million surplus for the state. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 30, 1991, on Page C00002 of the National edition with the headline: SIDELINES: POLITICAL FOOTBALLS; Jersey Sports Authority Passing Hat.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »