Advertisement By GEORGE VECSEY rrIn this Age of Steinbrenner, sacking the manager is so often a frivolous or cruel maneuver that it is refreshing to see a baseball club slow to push the button. Whether through humane instincts or inertia or common sense or cheapness, the Mets' management stayed with Dave Johnson longer than necessary. In the end, Johnson's aloofness was catching, and the manager was dropped on Tuesday. The Mets are an interesting case study in managerial relations, and not just because they are a New York team. They managed to antagonize a good bit of North America with their cocky ways while winning the most games in baseball in the past six years. Yet they won only one World Series, and accumulated the deserved reputation of ''underachievers,'' as Frank Cashen, the general manager, has conceded. The players should not blame their current sleepwalk on the manager, but Cashen said he didn't like the ''attitude'' of the club, and he was right. Advertisement Usually, general managers dismiss the manager because the team is 87 1/2 games out of first place by May Day, and they've got to do something to sell tickets all summer. Or there is some personal conflict that can be ended only by getting rid of the manager. Advertisement That is not the case here. Johnson was not doing anything dreadfully wrong, but the hitters couldn't drive in runs from third base and the pitchers couldn't hold runners on base and the defense was exposed once Keith Hernandez wore down. There is something ironic in a college-educated manager whose team played dumb baseball. Malaise set in after the rollicking comebacks in 1986. Cashen did not like the swashbuckling way Johnson behaved away from the field, but Cashen couldn't quite let the manager go. It dragged on, and even Johnson seemed surprised that he was still around this year. Johnson had been a peppery second baseman with the Orioles, flashing big words and complicated questions just to annoy the older, less educated players. As he grew older, he became involved in real estate and restaurants and flying and computers. He is an accomplished man, weak in his overreliance on the big inning and disdain for defense, but strong on matchups and percentages, as befitting a math-and-sciences guy. George Steinbrenner could do worse the next time his finger itches. In his personal dealings, Johnson often gave the impression of holding something back. When he smiled, he looked angry. He seemed more comfortable with the computer or watching tapes of games than talking with the players, who often heard about lineup changes from reporters.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. This was not a well-managed team in recent weeks. A few batters were suggesting that Johnson should order Mets pitchers to throw at opposing players in retaliation for beanballs. There are six bona fide starting pitchers on the squad, and Johnson could not make them all happy. The players held a meeting in California and almost blatantly admitted they were now playing for themselves. The general manager is now saying that five years seems like a parameter for keeping that mysterious air of authority: a manager forgets the little tricks that won him a game or two, or the players get tired of the devices. On the other hand, in these days of free agency, few players stay around for five years, so a manager could theoretically outlast some of his critics. Casey Stengel used to say that his main job as manager was separating the five players who hated him from the five players who weren't sure. ''Hate'' is much too strong a word for Johnson, but boredom had set in, on all sides. Advertisement Usually, when a manager is fired, the management looks for a change in temperament, and the players talk about their new feeling, for at least three days. The hot-cold treatment is particularly effective in a sport of emotion like basketball, but not so vital in baseball with its variables of a pitching rotation. In the Mets' case, the withdrawn Johnson was replaced by a competent and decent man who has been with the organization for most of the past quarter century. Bud Harrelson is promising a tighter regime, but that is not easy to do when a coach is promoted. Darryl Strawberry was quoted as saying the Mets felt ''numb'' after Johnson was dropped. Big deal. They've been numb for two months. Given the bland makeup of the Mets, it might have been worth considering other good baseball men from the outside, with an extra dash of strength and distance, Don Baylor being the first name to come to mind. However, sometimes a good and familiar face is enough to make a difference in the short run. In the long run, as the economist John Maynard Keynes once said, we are all dead. Particularly managers. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 31, 1990, on Page B00009 of the National edition with the headline: SPORTS OF THE TIMES;   Mets' Move Might Wake Them Up.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »