Advertisement By MICHAEL JANOFSKY For three days last week, Steffi Graf tried to telephone a friend in West Berlin, only to be greeted by his answering machine and its ebullient message. ''Sorry I'm not here,'' she recalled his voice saying. ''I'm out partying and won't be home for a while.'' Graf laughed in the retelling yesterday and sounded almost jealous, as if there could be better places to be this week and more important things to do than playing for the Virginia Slims championship at Madison Square Garden. Partying with her friend at the Berlin wall, for example. ''For everyone, I think it's something to do,'' she said, almost wistfully. ''I would love to have done it, just to be a part of the moment.'' Advertisement Like millions of other people around the world, Graf has watched the recent changes in East Germany with joyous and stunned amazement. The best player in women's tennis and the No. 1 seeded player in the Slims Championships, she has found the scenes of East Berliners exploring West Berlin that much more poignant because of her connection to fans in both republics. Advertisement More than a third of the mail to her home in Bruehl, West Germany, she said, is from East Germans. Once in a while the message inside has been more pointed, reflecting the harsher realities of life where many more restrictions apply. One letter, she remembered, came from a teen-age player who wanted badly to compete in West Germany. ''She asked me if I could help her in any way,'' Graf said. ''She also said that once in her life, she would like to be able to see me play somewhere.'' East Germany's absence from international tennis may account, to some degree, for Graf's wide popularity there. Unlike the Soviet Union and other Eastern bloc countries that routinely produce world-class players, East Germany has chosen not to compete at an elite level. None of the major professional tours this year included an East German player. Nor did one compete in the Seoul Olympics last year, when tennis returned as a medal sport for the first time in 64 years. Graf recalled one player, an Eastern European champion of another generation, who retired in frustration, never having tested his skills against players of non-Warsaw Pact nations. ''Playing 20 years in the same country,'' Graf said, ''he had no more motivation.'' Martina Navratilova, a native of Czechoslovakia who became an American citizen in 1981 after defecting, remembered that player, Thomas Emmrich, even better. ''He was my boyfriend in 1971 or '72,'' she said. ''He beat all the junior players in Czechoslovakia. He beat people who beat Bjorn Borg at that age. But he never had a chance to play on the outside. They were not allowed, period.''  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Navratilova, who is seeded second this week, said she expected that to change, and not just because of the sudden political developments in East Germany. She predicted that because tennis has won a permanent place on the Olympic program, East German sports officials would begin to emphasize it and develop top players as they have in other sports. ''It's that simple,'' she said. ''I think the world will now see a wave of East German tennis players.'' Advertisement Navratilova described herself as ''euphoric'' over recent events in Eastern Europe, saying, ''the winds of change are here.'' They have blown less vigorously in other Eastern European countries but still with enough power to create hope. Manuela Maleeva, a 21-year-old Bulgarian who is seeded eighth in the championships, said that the developments in East Germany were only slightly more exhilarating than changes in her own country, where Todor I. Zhivkov, Bulgaria's President since 1954, resigned on Friday. ''That was unexpected,'' Maleeva said, adding that she could not be sure how it would affect Bulgarian citizens. ''I think it will take quite a few years until things start to really change,'' she said. ''But I'm happy something is moving. When the same person is in power for 35 years, it felt like things would stay the same forever.'' In most Eastern European countries, most elite athletes live more comfortably than average citiizens. But Maleeva still felt the pinch of stringent regulations. In 1987, she and her fiance, Francois Fragniere, a Swiss native, held two wedding ceremonies because Bulgarian authorities would not allow their Swiss friends into Sofia, and their Bulgarian friends were not allowed to go to Switzerland. Like Graf and Navratilova, she has watched in amazement as East and West Berliners celebrated at the wall. ''They were all so happy,'' she said. ''It was unthinkable even a month ago that someone could walk on the Berlin wall, and now they're destroying it. It's really something.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 14, 1989, on Page B00023 of the National edition with the headline: A New Look at East German Tennis.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »