Advertisement By GERALD ESKENAZI and  Call these the Spectator Games, too. There has never been a Winter Olympics spread over more than 600 square miles. In the bus, out of the bus. No, you can't get there by car. Only official business. Walk? With inches to spare between you and the village 1,000 feet below? Even events nearby, as the crow flies, don't count. The way these mountain roads twist, a mile or two can take 20 minutes by vehicle. So to call these the Albertville Games is like calling the football team the New York Giants. On the map it appears close, but you can't walk to Giants Stadium from Broadway, and it can take up to two hours to try to get from Albertville to other Olympic sites. It will be different, much different, at the 1994 Games in Lillehammer, Norway. There are seven athletes' villages here, which indicate how far it is from place to place. In Lillehammer, there will be only two. The only events held in Albertville -- which became prominent centuries ago as the Gateway to France because of pilgrimages to the Holy Land -- are figure skating and speed skating, except for the opening and closing ceremonies. It's All Spread Out Advertisement "We knew the Games would be spread out over a region, not a city," conceded Michele Verdier, spokeswoman for the International Olympic Committee. "It would be over winding mountain roads." Advertisement As the Games drew to a close, she pronounced, "It has been a positive outcome to Games that presented a very real challenge." The guiding spirit behind having the Games as a celebration of the Savoy -- and all the extra travel that entailed -- was Jean-Claude Killy, the three-time skiing gold-medalist of 1968 who has adopted this area even though he was born in Paris. His co-chairman of the organizing committee is a local politican and member of the National Assembly, Michel Barnier.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. They wanted all of the Savoy region involved. Killy estimated that by bringing the Games here, "the building of roads has been speeded up by 15 years."  No Price Gouging Here For the most part, prices have been kept down by Killy fiat. The exception is the top level of living at Courchevel, known as Courchevel 1850 (for meters), where the royals such as Prince Albert of Monaco stay and the shops are as glitzy as Fifth Avenue. But 80 percent of foreigners who come to France to ski do it in the Savoy. Killy did not want to antagonize visitors. A typical price-fixed meal in a local restaurant, at the height of the winter season and even during these Olympics, is about $25. Americans are not accustomed to having the tip included in the meal. Some local restaurateurs wanted to jack up the tip, but were ordered to leave prices stable. A bottle of the local wine, which no one ever sees in America because it isn't worth shipping, costs only $12 in a restaurant. Visitors here will remember that. It is likely the Games have lost money despite an estimated 900,000 spectators. Certainly not every seat is filled at every event and there are empty stretches at lesser skiing events. Hotels did not fill because tourists were concerned about reports of price-gouging. Advertisement But making money would have been only a bonus to a man who wanted to show off to the world the mountains in his backyard. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 23, 1992, on Page 8008006 of the National edition with the headline: ALBERTVILLE; Many Miles to Go Before the Next Event.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »