Advertisement By MICHAEL MARTINEZ and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES They tried, but in the end the Yankees could not fully explain how things happened. Bucky Dent shook his head and lamented lost opportunities. Greg Cadaret blamed himself for continually falling behind in the count. Roberto Kelly said he simply forgot to take his sunglasses with him to the outfield. But it may be nothing more than this: the Yankees have neither the pitching nor the offense to beat the Oakland Athletics. They lost, 5-0, today and have now been shut out three times in nine days by the A's. ''They have a lot of ways to beat you,'' said the Yankee outfielder Jesse Barfield. ''Their pitchers get a lot of run support. Heck, I'd love to pitch for them.'' Sanderson Stars The A's have enough pitching, thank you. On a bright and warm day at the Oakland Coliseum, Scott Sanderson worked into the seventh inning and did not allow a run, extending his string to 13Y shutout innings in two starts against the Yankees. Advertisement By the time they were done, the A's had beaten the Yanks for the fifth time without a loss this season, for the seventh straight time since last season and for the 14th time in their last 17 meetings. Advertisement In 45 innings this season, Oakland's pitching has permitted the Yankees a mere three runs. In fact, the A's might be stronger than a season ago, when they won the World Series in four straight games. They lost Storm Davis to free agency but picked up Sanderson, who has given them four victories by mixing up his pitches. ''I have to be able to do that to be successful,'' Sanderson said. ''I'm not the kind of pitcher who can keep throwing the same thing. When I came here, I knew that I needed to put my ego aside as far as being a power pitcher.'' Keeps Yanks Off Guard His manager, Tony La Russa, seemed to marvel at Sanderson's performance. When someone wondered how the right-hander was able to hold the Yankees in check twice in one week, La Russa answered: ''I think he just mixes up his pitches well. He threw Claudell Washington and Jesse Barfield six straight breaking balls one time. The next time, he threw them a bunch of fastballs.''  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Yankees had some chances. They advanced runners to third base in the first, fourth and fifth innings. They have scored just one run in their last 24 innings. ''This is tough,'' Manager Dent said. ''I've never seen anything like this. We've had chances in two games here, but we just haven't done it. A base hit early today and it's a different game. We just can't seem to do that right now.'' Cadaret, the starting pitcher, put the Yankees in a first-inning hole when he walked Carney Lansford, then gave up a ground-rule double to Jose Canseco, who hit two home runs Monday night, and a two-run single to Mark McGwire, who had been in an 0-for-18 slump. Didn't Find Groove ''I was behind all day and got myself in trouble,'' Cadaret said. ''That'll catch up to you sooner or later.'' Knowing that his team is struggling for runs doesn't help, either. ''You try to throw a shutout,'' Cadaret said. ''You've got to do what you can to help.'' The Yankees lost all hope in the seventh when Kelly, without sunglasses, dropped a two-out fly ball by McGwire. It allowed one run to score. Another came in on a single by Terry Steinbach. Advertisement ''I just didn't take them out there,'' Kelly said. Asked if he forgot them, he nodded. These days, even the little things are hurting. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 9, 1990, on Page D00028 of the National edition with the headline: Yanks Are No Match When They Play A's.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »