Advertisement By MALCOLM MORAN and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES The University of Connecticut's basketball season of a lifetime ended suddenly this afternoon with the same type of buzzer-beating shot that two nights before had extended it. It ended with stunned embraces, among the Huskies and from their opponents after the Duke sophomore Christian Laettner's 14-foot shot, at the end of a gripping overtime period, gave the Blue Devils a 79-78 victory in the East Regional championship game at Byrne Meadowlands Arena. The Blue Devils (28-8) advanced to the Final Four of the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament for the eighth time and the fourth in the last five years. Arkansas a Winner, Too Duke will meet Arkansas, which won the Midwest Regional by beating Texas [page 3] , next Saturday in a national semifinal game at Denver. Connecticut (31-6) ended its season just as the most successful of its 13 previous N.C.A.A. tournament teams did 26 years ago: with a loss to Duke in a regional final. Advertisement But that tournament ended for the Huskies with a 47-point defeat. The Duke victory today, the first regional championship game to go to an overtime period in seven years, left behind 45 minutes of what-might-have-beens that are sure to last for years. Advertisement After the Blue Devils were able to call timeout with 2.6 seconds to play in the overtime, their chance to win came when Coach Mike Krzyzewski, reacting to a Connecticut defense that did not place a player against Laettner on the inbounds pass, called out, ''Special!'' Connecticut was concerned about the possibility of a pass toward the senior Phil Henderson, who scored 21 points, or Alaa Abdelnaby, whose 27 points and 14 rebounds had consistently given Connecticut problems, or Bobby Hurley, the freshman point guard, whose 0-for-9 shooting concealed his vital contributions in the face of Connecticut's pressing defense. Laettner, inbounding the ball near the Duke bench and hearing his coach's command, understood that he was now to have the ball returned immediately after his pass from the left sideline and relayed the message to the sophomore Brian Davis. He inbounded the ball to Davis, received a quick return pass, went into the air and pumped twice on a slightly off-balance but decisive shot that extended the Blue Devil season and ended Connecticut's joyful run through March. Warm Embraces As the Devils began their celebration, Krzyzewski slowly walked along the sideline toward the Connecticut bench and met Jim Calhoun, the numb coach of the Huskies, in a long embrace. Near the tunnel leading to the dressing rooms, Abdelnaby hugged Tate George, the lone Connecticut senior, whose career ended today. Just before the final Duke timeout, with the Huskies leading, 78-77, George had jumped in front of a pass to the left wing that Hurley had directed toward Henderson. Two nights before, George's last-tenth-of-a-second shot had shocked the Clemson Tigers and pushed the Huskies this far in the N.C.A.A. tournament for the second time in school history. Advertisement But today, near the end of a taut afternoon that held 17 changes in the lead and 16 ties, George had just missed a forced shot from the right baseline with 11 seconds to go in overtime and two seconds remaining on the 45-second shot clock.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. After he interrupted Hurley's pass at the other end, George had the ball carom from his hands to his right shoulder and out of reach as he raced toward the sideline. ''I was trying to stay in to keep the clock going,'' George said. ''The ball just trickled off my hands.'' If George had been able to direct the ball toward the backcourt, allowing the final seconds to pass, it could have bounced all the way to Denver. Instead, the ball fell out of his grasp and landed out of bounds to give Duke one last chance. Error in Timing With 1:28 to go in the overtime, Connecticut had taken the lead when Abdelnaby made a potentially decisive error in timing. With Nadav Henefeld of the Huskies at the foul line, and Connecticut in the bonus situation trailing by 77-76, the first foul shot appeared to be bouncing away from the rim when Abdelnaby leaped and inadvertently touched the ball an instant too soon. Henefeld was awarded the point, earned the second shot, and cleanly made that one for the last Connecticut lead. The Huskies, who were behind by 11 points late in the first half and 9 early in the second, had extended Duke to an overtime on a 3-point shot by the sophomore guard, Chris Smith, with nine seconds to go in regulation time. The Devils nearly ended the game in the final moments of the second half, on an inbound pass to Abdelnaby that began with 0.3 seconds to go. But Abdelnaby's short bank shot from the right side of the lane caromed away as the horn sounded. At the end, that near-miss would not linger with Duke through an unhappy spring. From the start of the game, Laettner and Abdelnaby overcame the loss of senior Robert Brickey - who scored 2 points in 14 minutes because of a pulled hamstring muscle - and created problems that led to Connecticut foul difficulties. The foul trouble, combined with Hurley's eight assists and just two turnovers in 43 minutes and his ability to dribble through the pressure, neutralized the press and resulted in a total of 12 Duke turnovers. Connecticut's opponents had averaged 21.6. Any notion that the most recent Devil trip to the Final Four was routine would be disputed by an image that has stayed with Laettner for the last year. In its seven Final Four appearances, Duke has lost four national semifinal games and three championship games. Advertisement Motivating Memories ''The most important thing I remember from last year was after last year in Seattle,'' Laettner had said the day before the game.  He was thinking about the emotional scene in the dressing room at the Kingdome, not long after a loss to Seton Hall in a national semifinal game that had seemed firmly in Duke's control during the first half. ''The seniors said, 'Make sure you get back here, and try to win a national championship,' '' Laettner remembered. ''I said, 'O.K., I'll try.' '' Just before his moment today, Laettner later remembered: ''I got an anxiety feeling in my stomach. But once the play started, I was ready to go.'' His coach had said, ''Special,'' and suddenly Duke's season was, even more so. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 25, 1990, on Page 8008001 of the National edition with the headline: COLLEGE BASKETBALL;   UConn Eliminated at Buzzer in Overtime.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »