Advertisement By MALCOLM MORAN rrOf all the required tasks of a Little League season that can make Bonnie Fortney crazy, nothing compares with what's going on this week. In this era of the memorabilia frenzy and high-priced baseball card shows, there is nothing to compare with the organization of the post-season celebration. Not if you'd like a recognizable athlete to attend. The Westbury Amateur Baseball Association will present its awards Friday night at Westbury High School on Long Island, with Dave LaPoint of the Yankees there to talk to children, tell stories, provide encouragement and present trophies. Fortney, the organization's volunteer director of special events, recently called the Yankees to confirm the pitcher's appearance. ''They said to me, 'You sound like you're very nervous,' '' she remembered. ''I'm sitting here counting the hours, hoping every phone call isn't, 'He isn't going to be there.' '' She is entitled to her nervousness. For at a time that some highly paid athletes are willing to travel hundreds of miles for the supplementary income of a card show, Bonnie Fortney's annual torture has consisted of a succession of cancellations, disappointments, and a heavy dose of financial reality. Advertisement The league consists of about 350 boys and girls, ages 6 to 15, with a wide range of economic and cultural circumstances. Some children have to be sponsored because their families cannot afford the registration fee. The league's awards affair was changed from a dinner to an assembly because some families, particularly those with several children in the league, could not afford the price of the meal. Advertisement When Fortney called the Yankees in search of a speaker, she said she was given five names, only one of which was an active player. ''I said, 'We need somebody who plays ball,' '' she remembered. Normally, she said, the cost of an active major league player starts at $1,500 and goes up. Three years ago, when she inquired about a Yankee player she thought could provide a perspective the young athletes could use, she was informed the price was close to $3,000. The year before that, after a series of maddening cancellations, her league secured Whitey Ford through someone who shared the same attorney. The parents were thrilled; the children wanted to know who he was. Last year, her league had a speaker thanks to a left-handed mensch from nearby East Meadow named Viola, who refused a fee.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ''The frustrating part of these dealings,'' Fortney said, ''is so few major league players seem to make themselves available for these types of things. The people you do have available often can't provide the type of inspiration you're trying to present. A 12-year-old can't relate to a bullpen catcher. Maybe if they say, 'Don't get involved with the wrong people and don't get distracted,' it may sound hokey, but if the youngsters hear it from them, maybe it will stick.'' There is nothing wrong with a utility infielder becoming a millionaire, if that's what the market determines. But at a time that agents concoct shoe deals and poster deals and T-shirt deals and card-show deals and endorsement deals, is it necessary to put the arm on a bunch of 10-year-olds? Certainly athletes need the time at home after the grind of the season. And many do make appearances and work for charitable causes. ''I just wish there were more of them,'' Fortney said. A positive impression does not even require a star. Nearly 25 years ago, another league from another time assembled in a banquet room in College Point, Queens. We were all there in our suits and ties and glory when informed that the guest speaker was Larry Miller of the Mets. Larry Miller? Larry Miller was a left-handed pitcher who earned a total of one victory for the Mets in a three-year major league career that totaled five. This was not what we had in mind, and we were not afraid to say so. As the groaning went on and on, one of the league's big-wigs finally stood up. ''What do you kids want?'' he yelled. ''Mickey Mantle and Roger Maris?'' The response may well have been audible in Bayside, Whitestone, Elmhurst, Beechhurst, Robinswood, Malba, Flushing and Jamaica. Soon, however, we learned that Larry Miller could be just as much fun and maybe more, especially when he recalled the day Marv Throneberry had tripled in the Polo Grounds, only to be called out for failing to touch second base. This infuriated Casey Stengel, who was hurrying toward the scene of the dispute until he was intercepted by an umpire who told him, ''Uh, Case, I wouldn't go out there. He missed first, too.'' Suddenly, everybody had to get Larry Miller's autograph. Dave LaPoint, with his sense of humor, willingness to help and left-handed observations of the weirdness at Yankee Stadium, might just be the Larry Miller of our time. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 15, 1989, on Page D00027 of the National edition with the headline: SPORTS OF THE TIMES; The Price Of Finding Role Models.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »