Advertisement By SAMUEL ABT and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES Andy Hampsten, ''The Other American,'' is having a pretty good Tour de France, too. Eleventh over all in the 161-man field, a surprisingly strong third in a recent sprint finish and one of the world's finest climbers, Hampsten is looking forward with newfound confidence to the race's two days in the Pyrenees, which start Tuesday. ''It was fun being in front again,'' he said this morning, referring to the five-man breakaway on Saturday that signaled the resurgence of Greg LeMond, who has long been identified as ''The American.'' Yes, LeMond has an excellent chance for his second successive victory and third in five years in the world's greatest bicycle race as it heads toward its finish in Paris on Sunday. And yes, Hampsten is hoping, at best, to be in the top five at the end and perhaps to win a stage in the Pyrenees. Advertisement But don't think Hampsten is bothered by being referred to as ''The Other American,'' as French newspapers often call him. Advertisement ''It flatters me,'' he said. ''I get a big kick from going from a kid riding his bike around North Dakota to being ranked with somebody at the top of his favorite sport. Put that way, it kind of tickles me.'' Both Americans finished far back in today's sojourn, 105 miles under a hot sun from Millau to Revel in the south. The leaders of the three-week race left the stage to the also-rans, with Charly Mottet of France an easy winner in 4 hours 13 minutes 56 seconds. Second, 2 minutes 2 seconds behind, was Giuseppe Calcaterra and third in the same time was Slava Ekimov, a Soviet rider. The overall leader, Claudio Chiappucci of Italy, gained three seconds on LeMond, Erik Breukink and Pedro Delgado, his main challengers, and now leads the Dutchman by 1:52, the American by 2:24 and the Spaniard by 4:29. Hampsten trails by 9:46 but is barely three and a half minutes, or one day's strong finish in the Pyrenees, out of sixth place.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. He is looking forward to the mountains with confidence, which he admits he has not always had. ''If I can put it all together, nobody can beat me,'' he said in an interview before the Tour began June 30. ''But I don't always believe I can put it all together. A lot of it is confidence, so that I don't defeat myself.'' Often accused of being the thinking man's bicycle racer - always reading a serious book or visiting an art gallery or cathedral during time off in races - Hampsten feels that he has thought too hard, too long about his confidence. Advertisement So has he stopped overthinking? ''No,'' he said with a laugh, ''I do that more than ever. It's like so many things in life: Just because you know it's not good for you, you can't always stop doing it.'' As of this morning, however, he reported that his confidence was strong. ''I'm still hopeful,'' he said. ''I'm just taking each day as it comes and I think it will be good for me in the Pyrenees.'' His optimism is based primarily on his fine performance in the Alps, where he was fourth fastest on the long and steep climb up to Alpe d'Huez, the last of the day's three peaks. Holding Things Together ''I felt pretty good at Alpe d'Huez,'' Hampsten said. ''The last three years my body has come apart for that, so it was a pretty good sign. If my body is holding together, it should go good for me from now on.'' The 28-year-old Hampsten registered his finest showing in the Tour de France in his debut in 1986. He finished fourth then, winning the white jersey of the best younger rider, but has been 16th, 15th and 22d in the three years since. More was expected of him when he moved from the Vie Claire team in 1987 to become the leader of 7-Eleven. Not that Hampsten has not done well, including posting the only victory by an American in the Giro d'Italia, in 1988, and in the Tour of Switzerland, in 1986 and 1987. Neither race is on a par with the Tour de France, however. ''The Tour de France, for me, is everything,'' Hampsten said. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 17, 1990, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: Confident, Flattered and Even Tickled to Be 'The Other American'.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »