Advertisement By JOSEPH SIANO At a crowded news conference in Manhattan last November, Bill Cosby announced that he was lending his support to the Raynor Indy-car team to help Willy Ribbs realize his dream of driving in the Indianapolis 500. The gathering set off a media feeding frenzy for two reasons (besides the buffet breakfast being served): The newly renamed Raynor-Cosby Racing Team had one of America's most popular entertainers behind it, and Ribbs would become the first black driver to compete at Indy. But when the Indy 500 starts next Sunday, Ribbs won't be among the 33 drivers. Even with the extensive publicity the team could guarantee any sponsor, none have yet been found. Trouble With Adapters Without sponsorship, said Ray Neisewander 3d, the team's general manager, Raynor-Cosby could not afford a 1990 Lola, which it believed was essential to make a safe and competitive run at Indy. Advertisement New rules, meant to reduce speeds, require Indy cars built before 1990 to use an aerodynamic adapter kit. Several drivers have crashed at Indy in cars modified this way, and the kits have been criticized as unsafe. Advertisement ''We felt that the cars were unstable,'' Neisewander said recently. ''Experience has proven us absolutely correct.'' Instead, he said, the team plans to run the 11 road-course events on this year's Indy-car schedule, where the lower speeds and Ribbs's road-racing talent will give the team a better chance. Their next race will be at Detroit on June 17. In his Indy-car debut at Long Beach, Calif., April 22, Ribbs drove a steady, uneventful race and finished 20th after the car's suspension broke. Timing Hurt Search About the time that Cosby joined the team, Raynor decided to switch marketing companies in its search for a sponsor. It chose the Championship Group, an Atlanta company that has long represented Ribbs.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Ardy Arani, the company president, said last week that the announcement with Cosby had come too late in the corporate budgeting cycle to find a sponsor for 1990. ''I have never been involved in a program like this one where we have started in February and have implemented a program by April,'' Arani said. The Raynor-Cosby program requires plenty of budgeting lead time, Arani said, because it will cost more than the typical seven-figure Indy-car sponsorship. Cosby's main support for the team - more than a financial contribution - is an offer to do a 30-second television commercial for whomever sponsors his driver. And that, Arani said, requires extra money to produce the commercial and buy air time for it. ''So now you're talking about a $10 million program,'' he said, using an approximate figure. ''And at this date, you are not going to find that kind of money for 1990.'' Advertisement Retailer Was Approached From November 1988 to November 1989, Raynor paid a retainer to Henry Rischitelli, the director of motorsports for International Management Group. Rischitelli, who was representing Raynor when Derek Daly was its driver and before Cosby and Ribbs arrived, was unable to find a sponsor. Rischitelli said that I.M.G. had tried to get Target, a retail chain, to sponsor Raynor, but that Target eventually refused because the company believed the team was not competitive enough and its asking price was too high. Raynor has never won an Indy-car race, and since 1987, its best finish is a third place. As for Cosby's addition to the Raynor team, Rischitelli said Target wasn't swayed, because it thought that the entertainer had been used in too many commercials and that he simply wasn't right for them. Target has since entered Indy-car racing as a sponsor of Chip Ganassi's team. The difference, Rischitelli said, was that Ganassi offered Target a sponsorship program that would eventually allow it to pass on much of the cost to manufacturers who sell their goods in its stores and want to be a part of the racing sponsorship. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 21, 1990, on Page C00005 of the National edition with the headline: Cosby Team Forced to Detour.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »