Advertisement By GERALD ESKENAZI Adult Met fans outnumber their Yankee counterparts by almost 3 to 1 in New York City, a New York Times/ WCBS-TV News poll has found. At the time the poll was taken, June 17-20, the Mets were streaking and the Yankees were mired with the worst record in major league baseball. The status of both clubs has remained the same. Forty-one percent of the people polled said they were Met fans; 14 percent said they were Yankee fans; 6 percent said they were fans of both teams. The poll was conducted by telephone with 1,047 New Yorkers 18 years old or older. It was designed to sample a cross section of New Yorkers. The poll had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. Advertisement One of those polled, Hillary Charap of Manhattan, said that she saw the Mets ''as a quieter, more classy team. Whether it's better or not, that's the way it is. Even though I'm a Mets fan, I always enjoyed the Yankees, but George has turned me off.'' Advertisement The poll found that only 1 out of 10 Yankee fans had a favorable opinion of the team's owner, George Steinbrenner. As for the rest, 53 percent of those who described themselves as Yankee fans said their opinion of Steinbrenner was ''not favorable''; 14 percent said they were undecided; 22 percent said they hadn't heard enough about him, and 1 percent refused comment.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. One of those polled, Maggie Pena of Manhattan, said of Steinbrenner in a follow-up interview: ''He's not good for the team. If he doesn't like somebody, he gets in the way of the team. He changes players too much. He doesn't give the managers time to get acquainted.'' Mets fans were only slightly less sure about their impressions of Steinbrenner. Only 5 percent of them said they viewed him favorably; 48 percent said their opinion of him was ''not favorable''; 20 percent said they were undecided, and 25 percent said they ''hadn't heard enough.'' But Steinbrenner, who recently announced he was changing his philosophy and would rely more on young players, had his backers in the poll. Rob Doran of Staten Island, who said his father was the Yankees' visiting-clubhouse batboy in 1951, said he approved ''of his actions.'' ''George Steinbrenner is the owner of the ball club,'' Doran commented. ''Ballplayers are paid decent. George might not know that much about the game, but he's the owner of the ball club. A lot of fans hate the Yankees since the 40's and 50's. If anybody thinks they can run the Yankees better than him, they're out of their mind. Unless they're Donald Trump.'' The clubs also have different political constituencies, the poll suggested. Twenty-six percent of those describing themselves as Republicans said they backed the Yankees, compared with 12 percent of those describing themselves as Democrats. But 46 percent of Democrats rooted for the Mets, and 30 percent of Republicans. The rest of those polled backed neither team or both teams. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 1, 1990, on Page 8008001 of the National edition with the headline: Mets Fans by 3-1, Poll Shows.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »