Advertisement By RICHARD SANDOMIR The director and the producer are the Masters of the Video Universe during a game, giving orders to those who provide the live pictures, the replays and the audio. From their cramped perch in a production truck, they determine our view of a game: using the correct angle on a crucial play at home plate, flashing an appropriate graphic onto the screen or calling for the perfect replay of a pass ruled out of bounds by officials. Just how many decisions emanate from the production truck during a televised game? A few hundred? A few thousand? First, let's define the decisions: they include camera angles, replays, graphics, going to the studio for updates (which is often more of a studio decision, but we'll include them) and breaking for commercials. Not that these are the only decisions made. Many more go into pre-game preparation, such as which players the cameramen should concentrate on and what plays and team tendencies should be followed with greater awareness. Still more decisions flash into a director's mind before he makes a decision to cut to a new angle. Or he might have to decide to put a tinted mask on the camera lens to simulate how Eagles quarterback Jim McMahon sees the world. Advertisement Of course, not all decisions are created equal. Selecting the wrong replay out of a bushel of five to illustrate a game-ending tag at home plate weighs more heavily than what angle to choose for a free throw. But not every decision that turns out badly seemed lousy when made. Advertisement The Dec. 1 football game between the New York Giants and the Cincinnati Bengals on CBS is being used here for the first Gross Decision Count (G.D.C.). The director: Sandy Grossman. The producer: Bob Stenner. The announcers: Pat Summerall and John Madden. Quarters one through three presaged a mere 800-decision game. First quarter: 194 decisions, including 113 camera angles, 66 graphics and 12 replays (including 3 with the TeleStrator). Second quarter: 237. The angles rose to 157, graphics increased to 92 and replays shot up to 20 (including 2 TeleStrators). Third quarter: 251, among them 171 angles, 20 replays and 72 graphics. Ah, but then came the fourth quarter, with the Bengals' stunning comeback, to win, 27-24. A dramatic period, filled with action and reaction. Grossman and Stenner worked in overdrive to push the G.D.C. into four figures, pushing two quarters' decisions into one as they produced a veritable visual cornucopia.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Fourth quarter G.D.C.: 416, including 262 camera angles, 32 replays (but only one that was TeleStrated), 114 graphics, three shifts to the studio for updates and five breaks for commercials. Total G.D.C.: 1,098. "That many?" Grossman said. "But how many of them were good?" "Yeah, you can put up a new graphic," Summerall suggested. "Lousy decisions by Grossman." The G.D.C. now yields to another statistic, Time of Announcer Possession. The T.A.P. was first used during the World Series to understand how much analysts Tim McCarver and Jim Kaat spoke in proportion to play-by-play announcers Jack Buck and Dick Stockton. Now, the T.A.P. comes to Summerall and Madden. Is Summerall merely a minimalist who says as little as possible to set up Madden? Does the loquacious Madden dominate the airwaves as he seems to? Advertisement The T.A.P. knows all. How much do they think they speak? "I'd say it's 60-40 me," said Madden. "Fifty-fifty," said Summerall, armed with the knowledge that his T.A.P. inherently increases because part of his job is to be more than minimal, to do the promotional announcements, the updates and the scene-setters. Summerall and Madden started out fairly even, with Pat's T.A.P. actually winning the first quarter (12 minutes 35 seconds to 11:07) and the first half (26:32 to 25:26). But in the third quarter, with replays generally increasing Madden's need to speak, Big John started scorching Pat with an amazing 18:45 to 12:35 advantage. The fourth quarter found Summerall narrowing the gap, thanks to a lot of updates, but he still lost the period, 21:46 to 20:08, as Madden loaded up on replay analysis. Total T.A.P.: Madden, 65:57; Summerall, 59:15. "Is that right?" Madden said. Summerall thought for a moment before noting, "Thirty minutes of mine are probably just promos and updates." AIRWAVES ABC's Chevrolet College Football Awards on Saturday, which packaged seven post-season honors and which the producer, DON OHLMEYER, promised to be an exciting alternative to the usually soporofic Heisman Trophy telecast (coming Saturday on NBC), proved that the only way an award show can be interesting is if BILLY CRYSTAL is the host. And what happened to BRENT MUSBURGER's hair? With his slick-back coif and oversized, crooked bowtie, he looked as if he'd come straight from a harrowing log flume ride. . . . CBS's broadcast of the Team USA-Team Canada hockey game on Saturday used a high end-zone camera for live action (rather than replays), which thankfully kept all the action in front of the viewer, although the CBS director, SANDY GROSSMAN, knows he must be faster in switching to the traditional center-ice view when play shifts to the far end. . . . HBO's boxing crew was brutally honest during the GEORGE FOREMAN-JIMMY ELLIS mismatch Saturday. Why would Ellis's camp take the fight? commentator GIL CLANCY asked? "Well, for the three hundred-plus thousand," noted an acid-tongued JIM LAMPLEY. Clancy scored with the best line of the show, noting that Foreman's jab is "like a two-by-four coming out of a window and hitting you in the nose." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 10, 1991, on Page B00023 of the National edition with the headline: SPORTS BUSINESS: TV SPORTS; Decisions, Decisions, Decisions . . .  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »