Advertisement By THOMAS GEORGE and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES The 1993 Super Bowl was removed from Phoenix tonight in a vote of the owners at the National Football League's annual meeting. But the city gained a preliminary bid for Super Bowl XXX in 1996, which is likely to hinge on the same issue that made tonight's vote necessary, the failure of Arizona to make Martin Luther King's birthday a paid state holiday. In an earlier vote today, the owners chose to keep instant replay as an aid to officiating for at least one more season. After four hours of discussions on the Super Bowl issue, the owners voted to agree with their commissioner, Paul Tagliabue, who recommended that the 1993 game be moved from Phoenix. He had said that he did not want the N.F.L. to be entwined with Arizona's ongoing political debate over the King issue. Last November, a statewide referendum that would have created a paid state holiday was rejected by by a margin of 17,000 votes out of more than a million cast. The state is scheduled to vote on the issue again in November 1992. There was no immediate comment from the league on its decision to offer the '96 bid to Phoenix. Pasadena Gets 1993 Game? Advertisement Today's decision by the league's 28 owners -- the tally was not disclosed, but 21 votes were required for the action -- meant that Pasadena, Calif., would receive the 1993 game. Representatives of Pasadena and San Diego, the runners-up in the initial vote last March in Orlando, Fla., made presentations to the owners later tonight, and a vote was taken. Advertisement "It's been a long afternoon," said Bill Bidwell, the Phoenix Cardinals' owner. "We tried very hard to keep the game for '93 but it became apparent we couldn't. I think it's the best solution we could get today. There was a lot of sympathy. It's been a difficult year." Bidwell said the solution originated in conversations this week between Tagliabue and Gov. Fife Symington of Arizona. Bidwell said that Symington influenced the commissioner and that the commissioner spoke on Phoenix's behalf for 1996 during the discussions.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Instant replay survived another close call, passing for a sixth year in a row on a one-season basis. The votes of 21 owners (three-quarters of the league) were required for its passage and that's exactly how many were gained. The 21-7 tally was a duplicate of last year's passing vote in Orlando. Buffalo, Cincinnati, Kansas City, Chicago, Phoenix, the Giants and Tampa Bay each voted against replay last year. Today all of those teams voted against replay except Tampa Bay; Detroit, however, voted against it. "Every year you're concerned, and this was no exception," said Don Shula, the Miami Dolphins' coach, who is a member of the league's competition committee and has long favored the instant replay. "You get here and talk it through, and the reasons for keeping it are sound. We as coaches rely heavily on the guys upstairs to make some calls on the field. I don't see why officials shouldn't use the same procedures." Improvements Expected Jim Finks, the New Orleans Saints' president and general manager and chairman of the competition commitee, said that improvements would be made in the replay procedure, including the lifting of some restrictions, such as limiting where the replay booth is situated and not allowing the supervisor of officials in the booth. The two-minute cap for making replay decisions, however, remains. Opponents of instant replay argue that it slows the game, makes on-field officials hesitant to make calls, and the opponents dislike the fact that it can't be used on plays where on-field officials have already blown a play dead. Lindy Infante, the Green Bay Packers' head coach, said: "You hear all of the critics and you hear the rip at our officials, but we have the toughest game in sports to officiate. Our guys have to see the ball, the feet, the bodies grouped together and the obstructing views -- it's too much." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 20, 1991, on Page D00025 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL; N.F.L. Shifts 1993 Super Bowl From Phoenix.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »