Advertisement By MICHAEL MARTINEZ and  A week ago, the Yankees would have found a way to lose this kind of game. But tonight, they found a way to survive it. For six innings, they appeared on their way to another aggravating loss. But by the seventh inning, they tied it, and by the 11th, they won it on a Matt Nokes single to left field. The hit drove home Jesse Barfield from second base and beat the Chicago White Sox, 3-2, at Comiskey Park. It also sent the Yankees off to a productive start in the first game of a 13-day, 11-game trip that includes stops in Seattle, Oakland and California. "That's what happens when you hang tough," said Stump Merrill, the Yankee manager. Timely Hitting A run-scoring single by Bob Geren, a double by Alvaro Espinoza and an error by the White Sox allowed the Yanks to tie the game in the seventh. And then, after leaving the bases loaded in the 10th, they pulled through on a single by Barfield, a sacrifice by Jim Leyritz and Nokes's single off rookie Brian Drahman, the last of five White Sox pitchers. Advertisement Greg Cadaret, who had lost his first three decisions, picked up the victory after entering the game in the ninth. He got Ozzie Guillen to hit into a fielder's choice to end the game with a runner at second base. Advertisement "I avoided a divorce," Cadaret joked afterward. "I told my wife that I'd shave my mustache if I went 0-4. She's never seen me without one." But for a time, it didn't look as if either Cadaret or the Yankees would win. Starter Tim Leary, who was pitching for the first time in a week because of rainouts and off days, gave up a run in the first inning and another in the third. His support amounted to little more than a single here and a single there. But no runs.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Leary struck out Tim Raines to start the first, but then came three straight singles by Lance Johnson, Robin Ventura and Carlton Fisk, the last one driving in a run. In the third, Raines led off with a single to center and was forced out on a ground ball by Johnson. Johnson moved to second when Leary committed a wild pitch before Ventura followed with a single to center that made it 2-0. Fisk also singled, sending Ventura to second, but Leary struck out Frank Thomas and Dan Pasqua to end the inning. The Surge Collapses The Yankees, meantime, seemed to slump after failing to convert a first-inning opportunity against White Sox starter Greg Hibbard. Roberto Kelly opened with a single and Steve Sax walked, but the surge collapsed as quickly as it began: Don Mattingly popped to second and Kevin Maas and Hensley Meulens struck out. It was as if they were running on a tire that suddenly went flat. Every subsequent chance died until the seventh. In the second, Barfield led off with a single and was erased when Mike Blowers bounced into a double play. In the third, Kelly drew a one-out walk and was thrown out attempting to steal. In the fifth, Geren reached base on a two-out single before Espinoza -- the .441-hitting Espinoza -- bounced back to the mound. But in the seventh, the Yankees rallied for a pair of runs to tie the game and could have had more but Geren was thrown out at the plate attempting to score from first base on a double by Espinoza that ended the inning. INSIDE PITCH ANDY HAWKINS, who waved off reporters last Monday night after failing to hold a 5-0 lead against the Detroit Tigers, said Friday that he believed Manager STUMP MERRILL has no confidence in him and that his days with the Yankees are numbered. He may be right on both counts. The right-hander is working out of the bullpen now, in part because of poor pitching but also because the Yankees need only four starters as a result of days off and rainouts. "The manager doesn't have any confidence in me," Hawkins said, "so maybe I'd be better off if I picked up somewhere else." Merrill's reply: "I wouldn't say I've lost confidence in him. He missed a start because of the weather. If a guy is the No. 5 starter, he gets bumped. He's got to fight his way through it. He'll get his opportunity, but who knows when or where?" We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 27, 1991, on Page 1001033 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Yankees Find a Way to Win in 11th Inning.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »