Advertisement By SAM GOLDAPER and  Larry Bird, superstar, versus Chuck Person, almost superstar. Matched at small forward in games between the Boston Celtics and the Indiana Pacers, they have developed a rivalry that leaves the impression they don't like each other. This impression is so strong that many fans at Boston Garden have taken to booing Person's every move, especially when it appears he is being over-physical with Bird and his aching back. This afternoon, Person gave the capacity crowd of 14,890 spectators here added reason to disike him. He scored a season-high 39 points, including a playoff-record seven 3-point baskets, in leading the Pacers to a 130-118 victory that deadlocked their opening-round playoff series at 1-1. The next two games will be played Wednesday and Friday nights at Market Square Arena in Indianapolis, where Boston has lost its last five games there. Rare Victory for Indiana Advertisement The victory today was only the second playoff victory in 11 attempts for Indiana since it joined the National Basketball Association in the 1976 merger with the American Basketball Association. Advertisement Person attempted 10 shots from 3-point range, and hit his first 7 before missing in the waning minutes of the game. Four of his long-range baskets came in the second period within a span of 3 minutes 24 seconds, when the Pacers forged ahead to take a 64-61 halftime lead. "Chuck was phenomenal," said Bob Hill, the Pacer coach. "At times, he has a tendency to try to do too much, but that was not the case today. I kept reminding him to stay within the framework of the offense and we'll get you the ball if you're open. He listened. We didn't run that many more plays for him. He got most of his points off the fast break." In all, Person made 16 of 24 attempts from the field. "They shot the lights out on us," said Chris Ford, the Celtic coach. "Person was uncoverable." Bird played 40 minutes, despite an ailing back that caused him to spend the night in a hospital after Game 1 Friday. With him leading the way, the Celtics went on a 20-10 run for a 36-32 lead after one period today. Boston widened its advantage to as many as 6 points, at 51-45, before Person made his second-quarter strike. Ford tried to cool off the 6-foot-8-inch Person with players in addition to the 6-9 Bird, also using Kevin Gamble, Derrick Smith, Reggie Lewis and Kevin McHale.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. After Person had made his seventh 3-pointer in a row, Ford sent Derek Smith into the game to try to stop the string, and Person did miss on his eighth attempt. "I was the best player in the world for one day in my eyes," Person said after the game. "I'm still going to be badmouthed but it doesn't matter to me. I don't care how many guys they try to cover me with. I'm not going to let that tradition or leprechaun stuff affect me now." The Pacers shot 57.5 percent from the field, in part because they usually are a good shooting team. But today, they were helped greatly by the Celtic defense, which Boston center Robert Parish called "horrible." Advertisement "We're going to have to do a better job defensively individually and as a team," said Parish, who had 21 points and 12 rebounds. The Celtics, looking like old men losing a foot race to kids, often left Person and Reggie Miller, the Pacers' best shooters, wide open. The Pacers were constantly on the run for almost three and half periods. Late in the fourth quarter, Hill ordered his team to slow down the game, and spread the offense across the floor. Michael Williams, a quick guard, did the rest, driving down the middle for 10 of his 24 points and passing for 4 of his 10 assists. "Our goal was to win a game here and take away their homecourt advantage," said Hill. "This victory was a maturing process for this team." Despite his leadership, Bird, who missed seven straight games before returning for the regular-season final April 21, has still has not found his shot. He followed up his 6-for-20 first-game performance by hitting only 7 of 18 attempts. He had 18 points, 6 rebounds and 10 assists. REBOUNDS Sunday was the 25th anniversary of Red Auerbach's final appearance as the Celtics' coach. He is now 73 years old and president of the team. Twenty-five years ago, Auerbach guided Boston to a 95-93 victory over the Los Angeles Lakers in the seventh game of the championship series, winning his ninth N.B.A. championship. Bill Russell replaced him as the Celtic coach the next season. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 29, 1991, on Page C00004 of the National edition with the headline: BASKETBALL; Celtics Meet Their Match In Person And Pacers.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »