Advertisement By MICHAEL MARTINEZ and  The gentle ocean breezes have a way of beckoning, especially in the late afternoons of a California summer. Sometimes, when the day is over and the freeways are full, they can be irresistible. Sometimes, when there is work to do, they must be ignored. It is possible -- even miles from the beach -- to stand in the middle of a grassy field and feel them calling. But as Todd Marinovich stepped back in the pocket the other day and locked his eyes on a receiver, all he could hear was bodies crashing. The surf was up and the waves rolled in, but Marinovich remained intently focused during a weekday practice at the Los Angeles Raiders' camp. When he was through, perhaps he would give in to the water. But not now. "There's nothing like the ocean," he said later, almost longingly. "It's beautiful. I don't see how people could live in Kansas. I've got to be on the edge of something." Advertisement This week, with the regular season closing in, Marinovich is on the edge of a simmering quarterback controversy. Nothing unusual about that; the Raiders seem to have one every year. But if a popular vote were held between Marvinovich and the incumbent, Jay Schroeder, Marinovich would surely win. Advertisement He is not comfortable with all this. Just 23 years old and at the start of his second professional season, Marinovich is blossoming slowly and evenly. The Raiders will not rush him, but events may force them to. "Todd is learning on the run," said Art Shell, the head coach. "When you're young, like he was last year, you get a lot of things thrown at you, and you really can't decipher it all. He's going through his growing pains. He'll make some good things happen, and he'll make some bad things happen. It takes time." Marinovich still has a lot of it. Shell, patient and firm, has already declared that Schroeder will start the Raiders' season opener, Sunday at Denver. But if he falters, Marinovich will be there. Concern Over His Confidence It seems the wise thing to do. Although Shell has not said so publicly -- and Al Davis, the team's general partner, does not address these matters for the news media -- insiders say the Raiders prefer this arrangement. If Marinovich were to start and fail, it could do irreparable harm to his confidence, club officials believe. They would then have to summon a disgruntled Schroeder from the bench to bail them out. Marinovich keeps the controversy at a distance, saying the diplomatic thing but knowing that his turn could come at any time. Next week, next month, maybe next year. "I'm glad they didn't just hand the job over to me coming in," he said. "I knew I wasn't ready last year, but I also know that it isn't over if Jay starts the first game. It's not a closed book if he starts against Denver. I realized last year what a long season it is, that so much can happen." So much is happening now. Marinovich has become a cause celebre around Los Angeles, gaining support in the Coliseum stands and among many of his teammates, although some find themselves shading compliments so that they don't appear to be criticizing Schroeder. Advertisement "It's a touchy subject," said running back Napoleon McCallum. But linebacker Riki Ellison, who is Marinovich's closest friend on the team, said, "When his turn comes, Todd is going to be a great one." 'Free Spirit' The prediction is not new. Marinovich has lived with it most of his life, and perhaps that is why he has sought personal escapes from the expectations. He surfs -- naked, on occasion -- he draws, he fishes, he camps on the beach. He loves the great outdoors. "He's a unique individual, an exotic character," said Ellison. "I think too many people have tried to change him, but the great ones always have that type of free spirit in them." Marinovich and Ellison spent part of the off season fly-fishing in Montana. During breaks in training camp at Oxnard, Calif., they headed for the beach to surf. Marinovich's pencil and charcoal drawings -- he is working on a series of 12 portraits of great quarterbacks -- are so good that he has been asked to show them in galleries. When he is finished playing, he intends to become a full-time professional artist. Somehow, the brutish nature of football meshes with the more gentle side of his personality. It makes sense to him. A Need to Stay Calm "If there's one person on the field who has to be under control," he said, "it's the quarterback. There are all those bodies flying around like cars running into each other, but you have to be calm, as if you're tossing out a fishing line." His great escape is surfing, which Marinovich calls exhilarating and therapeutic. Does all this make Marinovich a terrific quarterback? It's debatable. "He's a lot more complex individual than just surfing," Ellison said. "He's got a free spirit in him, and I think people look to that for leadership. As a friend, I respect that. Obviously, there are people who like the all-America type, the Wheaties kind of person. I don't think he's that type."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Marinovich had a taste of success late last year, starting the last game of the regular season and the first game of the playoffs, both against the Kansas City Chiefs. He threw three touchdown passes in the first game and won, then got the Raiders within range of a score in the second before losing, 10-6. Off-Season Studying Advertisement In the off season, he gained 20 pounds to reach 220 and spent time working with Mike White, the team's quarterback coach, in an attempt to understand the Raider system better. It has paid off. "I did a lot of work with Mike studying our offense," Marinovich said. "Last year, I got thrown in there and would drop back and look to see who I was going to throw the ball to. But I wasn't always sure where everybody was. I didn't know what the line protection was. Now, considering all I've learned, I'm impressed with how I did under the circumstances." Shell has noticed. "He had a good feel for the pocket," he said. "When he truly understands a pattern, he knows where to go with the ball. Sometimes, he's too impatient, and it gets him into trouble. But he has a certain presence when it comes to knowing what to do and when to do it." The nuances have not come easily. Marinovich, had he remained at the University of Southern California instead of declaring himself eligible for the National Football League draft, would be starting his senior season. He had a rough parting with college life, among other things going through an arrest on misdemeanor drug-possession charges. The charges were dropped after Marinovich successfully completed a six-month program for first offenders. His talent was too good for the Raiders to pass up, although his adjustment in the first season came in small steps. "At U.S.C. and in high school," he said, "my ability was good enough that I could just drop back, look around and throw it. I had good enough accuracy that it didn't matter what the coverage was. But here, the athletes are world class, especially the defensive backs and the guys rushing you. It's become more mental than physical." Marked Improvement In the 1992 preseason games, it is clear that Marinovich has improved by leaps and bounds. After Schroeder threw three first-period interceptions on Aug. 23 against the Washington Redskins, Marinovich almost took the Raiders to a comeback victory. Last Saturday, against the Houston Oilers, Marinovich played most of the second half, completing 10 of 18 passes for 177 yards, including a 52-yard touchdown pass to Tim Brown in the fourth quarter, although he had two passes intercepted. "Todd is the kind of person who, when he gets in the game, has a lot of motivation and a lot of drive," wide receiver Sam Graddy said. "Everybody can see he's a talented quarterback, but the thing is his drive." "He likes to have fun and create big things when he comes in," said McCallum. "He wants to make something happen, and you can feel that." Advertisement In some ways, Marinovich, known as Red to his teammates, is like the player he is compared to most: Ken Stabler, the carefree Raider quarterback who played during the 1970's. Like Stabler, Marinovich is left-handed. "Todd is competitive, just like Snake was," said Shell, using Stabler's nickname. "When they throw an interception, it's like, O.K., you got that one, let's see if you can get this one. It doesn't faze them, it makes them mad." Stabler, though, probably never calmed himself by imagining he was surfing inside a tubelike wave. Marinovich does. In a game, he said, the sensation in his mind can be quiet, as if he is alone on a board. "It's pretty still," he said. "I'm not that fired up. I see everything going on, but I might hum a tune to relax or picture myself screaming down a wave getting barreled, getting into the tube, which is a nice feeling. If I feel tense or nervous before a game, that's the way I block things out." But there is the controversy about the Raider quarterbacks that must be dealt with. "I know the questions are coming," Shell said. "I expect them. If there's any change to be made, we'll make it when we feel it's right. Every time you pick up the newspaper, somebody is saying there's a change on the horizon, that it's been brewing for a year. But this is where we are, and this is where we're going to continue." Unpleasant Sounds for Schroeder Against the Redskins, Schroeder was booed for two quarters, then said he couldn't hear the razzing. But the boos are getting louder every week. "What boos?" said the 31-year-old Schroeder. "I can't worry about what's going on in the stands. I've got 22 guys on the field to worry about. If I start worrying about 40,000 other people, I'm in big trouble." The decision, though, could be based on how much Marinovich improves and how the team performs early under Schroeder. For now, Shell is staying with the Schroeder and giving Marinovich time. But soon, he will be ready. "Each time I go out on the field, I feel like I learn so much," he said. "I feel much more comfortable than I was last year. I'm confident in the plays I'm calling and know what's going on, and that reflects on the other players. Advertisement "If I get the call and go in, I'm not going to fail." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 2, 1992, on Page B00009 of the National edition with the headline: FOOTBALL; As Raider Controversy Swirls, Marinovich Is Tranquil.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »