Advertisement By MIKE FREEMAN and  Instead of taking the Giants, putting them in one big bag and shaking until thoroughly mixed, Coach Dan Reeves decided that no shake-up was a good shake-up. He made changes today, but they won't shock the football world. They didn't even shock his team. In fact, a knee injury to linebacker Corey Miller is more significant than anything else that happened at the Giants' camp today. Miller has a slightly sprained knee and is questionable -- at best -- for Sunday's game against the Pittsburgh Steelers. Miller is probably the team's best athlete and a good pass rusher. The team also needs his strength to take on the Steeler condominium known as the 280-pound tight end Eric Green. As for changes, Reeves put linebacker Carlton Bailey back in the starting lineup after he was benched at the start of the season for Corey Widmer. In recent weeks Bailey had been playing much better than Widmer and Reeves rewarded Bailey's improvement. The change brings Bailey's Giant career full circle, from a star last season to being benched and threatened with a pay cut then back to the starting lineup again. Advertisement "It was done, it was done for a reason, now it's time to get back to business," Bailey said of being benched. "I never lost confidence. I had faith in myself and faith in my abilities." Advertisement Despite his reserve status, Bailey still ranks third on the team in tackles with 28, while Widmer is 11th with 15. Widmer had been fairly consistent, but Bailey had been making more plays, especially against the run. The Giants are second in the league in stopping the run, allowing only 78.7 rushing yards a game. The Steelers, even without running back Barry Foster (out with a knee injury) are one of the best rushing teams in the National Football League. They average a league-best 148.7 yards running a game, almost as much as they pass a game (187.2 yards). Foster will be replaced by Byron (Bam) Morris. "Carlton is playing the position extremely well right now, and we need to give him more opportunities to try and play in there and he will be our starting nobody remembers your mistakes," said George Henshaw, the Giants' offensive coordinator and quarterback coach. But with the Giants losing, the mistakes jump out and the questions intensify. Are the mistakes a result of inexperience or inability? Is Brown reading his receivers too quickly and not letting the play develop?  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "If I knew that," Reeves said, "I probably could correct it a lot quicker than we are. Just like anything, it's execution. Sometimes it's a combination of protection and pass routes and everything, or the quarterback is not going through his progression correctly. Maybe his eyes are going much faster than they should. "Last week, Dave said he had to be more aggressive. But all you need to do is your job. Sometimes you're trying to do too much, which I think is true not only for Dave but a lot of guys. Dave does some things very well at times. He's got to get consistency there. He has to make plays and give us a chance to win games." Brown said he was not concerned about the possibility of being benched. "You can't worry about things like that," he said. "That's the coach's decision. My confidence isn't slipping. Obviously, the frustration is there. But I still feel I'm a winning quarterback and I can get the job done. It's a throw here, an extra block there. "Maybe I'm trying to force it and make big plays. But I think I'm improving every week. I want the burden. In this league, you learn by doing, and we're learning every week. I think my learning curve has increased more in the last six weeks than in my three years here. I don't think the veterans' confidence in me is wavering." Advertisement Graham said no one had talked to him about a quarterback change. Although he felt he did not get a full shot at the job in training camp, he is trying to be a good soldier. "I want to play," he said. "At the same time, I don't want to be one of those backup quarterbacks who's second-guessing the starter. I want to be supportive of him, and I want to play. I've been ready to go in. I've been preparing mentally as well as physically." It almost seems that a Phil Simms-Jeff Hostetler quarterback controversy is in the making. "You can't worry about things like that," Brown said. Graham agreed, saying, "I can't worry about it." EXTRA POINTS The immediate personnel changes Coach DAN REEVES has in mind may involve cornerback. PHILLIPPI SPARKS and COREY RAYMOND, the starters, have played erratically. Their backups are WILLIE BEAMON, a second-year pro, and THOMAS RANDOLPH, a rookie. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 20, 1994, on Page B00017 of the National edition with the headline: Giants Are Shaky, but Aren't Shaken Up.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »