Advertisement By GERALD ESKENAZI and  They have Super Bowl rings and long records of playoff appearances. And they were supposed to help the Jets make the leap into a zone of respectability, where players wouldn't dwell on past failures. But the Jets' foray into free agency doesn't appear -- so far -- to have brought the qualities that veterans like Ronnie Lott, Boomer Esiason, Art Monk and Tony Casillas were supposed to impart: stability, intelligence, winning. For all the names, the Jets are 10-10, including last year's 8-8. Another of those interminable tests of their will, or ability to bounce back, or of their character looms on Sunday in Cleveland, where they face the Browns. Perhaps the reason there hasn't been more of a dramatic change in the Jets was pinpointed by James Thornton, a tight end. Advertisement "We have veterans on this club that were here for a while," explained Thornton. "But the fellows like Ronnie Lott bring their winning experience here from other teams. Most of the Jets who have been here for a while are used to losing or to 50-50 seasons." Advertisement And it has been 50-50 over these 20 games, although even that mediocre record is significantly better than the pre-free-agency nucleus is familiar with. The majority of those players came in the five seasons from from 1988 to 1992 when the Jets played at a 38 percent winning clip, and enjoyed only one winning season. Jets -- home-grown Jets, that is -- may revert to a losing attitude at times of stress, or become excitable when they should be learning to win. They have nothing to fall back on. Now perhaps they do have the Lotts and Art Monks to lean on. "They will help us if the people who come in here have the ability," said Mo Lewis, an original Jet from 1991. "Then the player who has the ability, and who's used to winning, can contribute because you listen to him." Brad Seely, the special teams coach who sees players reacting at high speed under stress, said: "Some of the guys seem pretty fragile. Some of them seem to be getting too high and some of them get too low." Of course, this season is young, only a fourth of it played. The Jets are hanging in at 2-2 while a grand old name like Denver is 0-4. And all those nagging mistakes and inefficient play that have led to a two-game losing streak will be forgotten if the Jets topple the Browns.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But for two straight games, in losses to Miami and Chicago, the Jets have been doing the sort of things that other Jets teams, without the current crop of big-name free agents, are accustomed to doing: overreacting when they are ahead, not winning a game they are expected to, trying too hard, making infuriating mental mistakes. Now a crop of new young coaches -- well respected but with no head coaching experience -- must turn around a Jets team that Pete Carroll and some players suggest loses its head when things get hectic. "We've got to find our way in a number of different areas to really jell," said Carroll. He was talking not only of his relationship with the coaches but also of how the players react. Advertisement He is a first-year head coach, and his offensive and defensive coordinators, Ray Sherman and Greg Robinson, have also never held such high positions. "We're continuing to grow with the people we have," Carroll said. "Ray and I are always on an ongoing basis throughout -- just like Greg and myself and Brad. We're always talking together and working. We're continuing to find our stride." Kyle Clifton has been a Jet since 1984, a stretch matched on the current squad only by Jim Sweeney. Clifton admits he doesn't know whether free agents can help change the Jets, or if it is up to the players who have grown here. "I think, though, that it's important for the guys they bring in to have had success," said Clifton. According to Lewis, one of the questions Lott has asked is: "Why are we losing? Why are we the way we are?" The Jets are spending millions to find an answer. The dividend has been modest so far. EXTRA POINTS BOOMER ESIASON threw softly in his warm-up suit. "I'm just getting treatment and hoping for the best," he said. Coach PETE CARROLL does not believe Esiason, who has a sprained left ankle, will be out more than two games, and there is a possibility he will back up JACK TRUDEAU next Sunday. . . . JAMES HASTY, the right cornerback, has been targeted by opposing quarterbacks more than the rookie AARON GLENN. Hasty has also been burned. Carroll says Hasty's surgically repaired knee is not a factor. "The ball is going his way a little more than Aaron," Carroll said. "Everybody would think it would go the other way. He hasn't come up with any big plays for us yet. I think he's due, and that will happen." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 30, 1994, on Page B00010 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL; New Jets Expected to Get Team in Winning Mood.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »