Who would have thought the match of the day would feature the 32-year-old Lleyton Hewitt against the 31-year-old Mikhail Youzhny? But the way these two tour veterans have played to reach the fourth round, this could be a classic. The rejuvenated Hewitt seems to have regained some of the quickness that was the hallmark of his two years at No. 1. He has three solid wins to reach the fourth round, including upsetting the No. 6 seed Juan Martin del Potro. Youzhny experienced something of a rejuvenation of his own three years ago. After falling from the top 10 to 72nd in the rankings, Youzhny stormed to the semifinals at the United States Open in 2010 before bowing to the eventual champion, Rafael Nadal. Although his results have been mixed since then, Youzhny has played well this year, beating the No. 12 seed Tommy Haas soundly in the third round. Head to head, Hewitt holds a 5-1 advantage and has won their last three meetings, two of those on hardcourts. But Youzhny is a big-game player and can hurt Hewitt with his attacking style of baseline play. Expect a ton of long rallies and great gets, but my gut says Hewitt will make it through to his first U.S. Open quarterfinal since 2006. They play the second match of the day on Louis Armstrong Stadium.

Andy Murray vs. Denis Istomin: This would be a dangerous match for the Murray of a few years ago when he had a history looking past lesser opponents. With a pair of Grand Slam titles under his belt, those days now seem to be behind Murray. Watching Istomin, a 26-year-old from Uzbekistan, one wonders why he isn’t ranked higher. He has a powerful serve that can touch 130 miles per hour and a deadly forehand. The answer is the odd nature of professional tennis, which is played on three different surfaces. Istomin lost in the first or second rounds of every grass or clay court tournament he has entered this year. But on hardcourts, he’s a different player. Istomin made five quarterfinals and one semifinal in hardcourt tournaments this year, and scored a handful of wins over top 20 players along the way. Murray is the overwhelming favorite here in the second night match on Arthur Ashe Stadium, but Istomin has nothing to lose and more than enough game to make things interesting if Murray isn’t playing his best. Li Na vs. Ekaterina Makarova: Makarova scored a huge upset to reach her third Grand Slam quarterfinal, knocking out the No. 3-seeded Agnieszka Radwanska in straight sets one round after beating the Wimbledon runner-up, Sabine Lisicki. Makarova, a left-hander from Russia, plays a prototypical power baseline game. She likes to control points from inside the baseline, blasting balls to the corners. Radwanska was simply overpowered, but Li, the No. 5 seed, will be able handle her pace and return it with interest. She overwhelmed Jelena Jankovic in the fourth round, clobbering winners from the baseline and sneaking into the net here and there. Makarova could make this match interesting for a bit, but Li is playing too well right now. They will play the second day match on Arthur Ashe Stadium. Stanislas Wawrinka vs. Tomas Berdych: Berdych had the best U.S. Open of his career last year, losing in the semifinals to Andy Murray. He may be playing even better this year. He destroyed the No. 31 seed Julien Benneteau in the third round, allowing the Frenchman to win just five games. Wawrinka is a talented all-court player whose game lacks any obvious weaknesses, but who doesn’t bring the firepower of Berdych. Wawrinka, the No. 9 seed, edged Marcos Baghdatis in the third round, but wasn’t sharp. He was lucky to escape without having to play a fifth set. Unless Berdych has a serious letdown, he should move through to the quarterfinals and a likely rematch with Murray. They play the fourth match of the day on Louis Armstrong Stadium. Serena Williams vs. Carla Suarez Navarro: Suarez Navarro has already equaled her best Grand Slam performance in reaching her first U.S. Open quarterfinal with a solid comeback win over the tough Angelique Kerber. But Williams has too many weapons and will feast on Suarez Navarro’s weak serve. Williams, the top seed and defending champion, dominated their two previous meetings — one on clay, Suarez Navarro’s favorite surface. Suarez Navarro, the No. 18 seed, is playing some great tennis right now and will keep balls in play, but Williams should be able to win this match, the first of the evening on Arthur Ashe Stadium. Marcel Granollers vs. Novak Djokovic: Granollers is a nice player with an unconventional baseline game who has played three five-set matches to reach the fourth round, all against unseeded players. His run ends Tuesday. Djokovic is playing too well and isn’t the sort of player who looks past opponents. He should be as locked in as he was two nights ago when he beat Joao Sousa in straight sets. Expect a similar outcome in the third match of the day on Arthur Ashe Stadium. Because of rain, the match between Ana Ivanovic and Victoria Azarenka will be the first match on Arthur Ashe Stadium on Tuesday morning. Television coverage kicks off at 11 a.m. Eastern on ESPN2 and the Tennis Channel. ESPN2 will have prime time coverage beginning at 7 p.m. Action from all the show courts can be streamed live as well. Journalists from The New York Times and The International Herald Tribune (along with a few dedicated fans) are following the Grand Slam tournaments, on and off the court. They will provide updates, insights, links and analysis while setting the scene from the stands as well as the press room. 
			This blog’s regular features, including live tournament analysis, news and notes from Christopher Clarey, Ben Rothenberg and others, and other coverage, can now be found on the tennis section front.Read more… 
			Venus Williams, ranked No. 63, beat No. 2 Victoria Azarenka in Tokyo on Tuesday, her first win over a player in the top two since 2009.Read more… 
			The United States learned on Wednesday that it would host a first-round tie with Britain for the 2014 Davis Cup.Read more… 
			According to one celebrity marketing index, Andy Murray is the most appealing of the so-called Big Four in men’s tennis. Read more… 
			Sloane Stephens walked the runway Thursday night in the Just Dance With Boy Meets Girl fashion show, modeling the designs of Stacy Igel.Read more… Advertisement