Advertisement By TIMOTHY W. SMITH and  As with most things that have happened to the Jets this year, Dennis Byrd's move from defensive tackle to defensive end has fallen short of expectations. In a way, Byrd is the personification of the Jets' season to this point. "It's been harder than I thought it would be," Byrd said. "But I really enjoy playing defensive end. I just want to. . . ." Then, like the pass rush of the Jets so far this season, Byrd stopped himself, searching for the right direction. "It's been like," he resumed, " 'Lord give me patience now.' One-of-those type things." Looking for First Sack Advertisement After three games, Byrd has only five tackles. He has not made a sack, which is one reason why the Jets' pass rush appears no better than it was last year. The pass rush was further set back by the loss of defensive end Jeff Lageman, who is out for the season after reconstructive knee surgery. Advertisement Two years ago, Byrd had 13 sacks as a tackle and last season he had 7 from that position, an inordinately high number from an interior line position. The Jets thought it would be a good idea to free Byrd up by moving him back outside, where he played as a rookie in 1989, and take advantage of his quickness. But so far, that quickness has been nullified by pushy tackles who double up with tight ends to knock him off the path toward the quarterback, taking away his initial quick burst. And when he has gotten to the quarterbacks, they have somehow slipped through his grasp. "I've missed three," said Byrd, regarding his sack opportunities. "You go back and look and I've had three guys in my hands and just missed them. "I sit at home at night and I think, 'I don't get those back.' At the end of the year you just add those onto your total and it makes you sick. I missed one against the 49ers on the first touchdown drive. I came underneath and had him around the waist and he just slipped loose. It's embarrassing. It's like everything else. I just play for the future now." A Hit on Hostetler  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The last time the 6-foot-5-inch, 266-pound Byrd had an impact hit on the quarterback was in preseason. It was Byrd's hit on Jeff Hostetler that left the Giants quarterback with an injured back and pelvis, and forced the Giants to go with Phil Simms in their final preseason game. Greg Robinson, the Jets' defensive line coach, said Byrd and the entire defense to an extent have been forced to alter game plans early because the Jets have been falling behind early. "When people don't have the pressure of being behind, you struggle more, because you have to play both the run and the pass," Robinson said. "When you have to do that, it's hard to be a great pass rusher." Doing It More Naturally Byrd said that he was just getting comfortable playing at end, but that he didn't know when he will turn into the player the Jets were hoping he would be when they moved him. Advertisement "Right now I'm getting to where I'm starting to react to plays like I want to," he said. "It's starting to become more natural. There are some plays that have hit me and I go, 'Gosh, I wish I had known that.' "I really am playing much more confident in the position. I am still learning. It took Jeff a whole year to get real comfortable at it until he exploded and was just ready to go. I hope it doesn't take me that long." The Jets can't afford to wait, either, with an 0-3 start. And this Sunday, against Rams quarterback Jim Everett, the Jets will need as much pass rush as they can muster. Everett, though his career has been in decline for the last three seasons, is still a dangerous passer if he gets time to throw deep. EXTRA POINTS Quarterback BROWNING NAGLE (bruised right index finger) was upgraded from questionable to probable for the game Sunday against the Rams. He looked sharp in practice for the second consecutive day, showing no effects from the injured finger. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 25, 1992, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: FOOTBALL; Byrd Is on the Outside, And Looking Inward.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »