Advertisement By MIKE FREEMAN and  He watched so much film of Barry Sanders this past week that linebacker Corey Miller felt as if the Lions running back was a close personal friend. Day after day and night after night, the film machine flickered, showing images of a man who does things humans aren't supposed to. And although Miller will try to shut down the game's best back today, he couldn't help but be awed by what he saw. It's what Sanders makes out of nothing that seemed to amaze Miller the most. He remembered one play against Dallas when Sanders hit a stuffed hole, then, after stopping on a dime, hopped back about 2 yards like a kid imitating the Easter bunny. And when the hole cleared, Sanders hit the warp drive and burst through it for about a 20-yard gain. This all happened in a matter of seconds. You will rarely see a player get a good, clean hit on the 5-foot-8-inch, 203-pound Sanders. He has the power of a raging river but is as hard to hold as running water. His combination of power and speed make him one of the biggest offensive threats in football. "I've always been kind of small," Sanders said, "and I think even when playing sandlot ball with my friends in early grade school, instead of running through all the kids I had to run around and arch my back and twist and turn and do everything I could to make it." Advertisement If the Giants do find a way to shut down the sixth-year running back, their chances of winning, and ending a four-game losing streak that has put the entire season in jeopardy, will rise dramatically. Advertisement "They definitely have the outstanding running back in the game," said Giants Coach Dan Reeves in assessing the Lions.. "As I told the Detroit press, he's definitely the outstanding one this week. Next week it will be Emmitt, but right now he's definitely the premier one we're going to face." Reeves was half-kidding but his point is well-taken: While Sanders may be the best in the game, the Giants next week face the Dallas Cowboys and running back Emmitt Smith, another major National Football League star. The two challenges are not unrelated. The Giants must stop Sanders, and beat Detroit, to stop their bleeding and regain some of their confidence. They will need plenty of confidence to have any chance of beating the Cowboys in their Monday-night game in Dallas. If the Giants lose to the Lions today, and see their season record drop to an unsightly 3-5, their chances of making the playoffs will be about the same as someone tackling Sanders one-on-one. In other words, almost impossible. And the reason is simple: There are two games with the Cowboys still on the Giants' schedule along with one against a Philadelphia Eagles club that is much better than the one the Giants beat in the first game of the season. Today's game is also a big one for quarterback Dave Brown, who, Reeves hinted last week, might be benched in favor of Kent Graham if things start to go awry again. Graham, in fact, took half the snaps during practice in the days leading up to the game. The Lions' 3-4 record matches the Giants, and they too are feeling the pressure of trying to stay in the playoff race. Thus for both teams today's game is of vital importance.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "As I said when we were 3-0 and everybody was talking about how great we are," said Reeves, "I said look out because we are not a team that can walk on the field and all of a sudden get a win. We've got to play well. We've got a chance this week against a team that has the exact same record that we do, but we've got to go out and play and not make the mistakes, improve our running game, throw the ball better than we have and then we've got a chance." The reason the Giants are 3-4 is because of overall team mistakes. The reason Detroit is 3-4 with one of the best running backs in the history of professional football is because he gets little help offensively. Scott Mitchell is the 11th-rated passer in the National Conference with a 68.7 rating. The Lions expected more from a guy they gave an $11 million contract. Sanders, on the opposite side of the spectrum from Mitchell, leads the league in rushing with 889 yards on 162 carries. That comes out to 7.3 yards per carry. Advertisement Sanders needs only 111 yards to reach 1,000 for the sixth consecutive season. He has rushed for as much as 1,548 yards in a season, and for never less than 1,115, his total last year, when he missed the last five games with an injured knee. And what makes the 26-year-old even more amazing is that he has handled the football 530 straight times without fumbling it to an opponent. The last time Sanders fumbled and it was recovered by the other team was in a game against Green Bay in 1992. All of this -- his heart, skill and pleasant personality -- has made Sanders one of the most respected players in the Detroit locker room and one of the most respected in the league. The Giants say that is all well and nice but excuse them if they try to stop the guy. The Giants don't plan on doing anything special because there really is nothing a team can do except maybe try some eight-man fronts. The Lions like to run outside so the Giant safeties will have to come up hard for run support and the cornerbacks will have to do a lot of stuffing on plays. The Giants will be without cornerback Phillippi Sparks, out with a groin injury, and rookie Thomas Randolph will make his first start. Welcome to the league, Mr. Randolph, you get to tackle Barry Sanders. "The thing you really have to be careful of," said Miller, "is that they will design a play right but he'll cut back left for 50 yards." Sanders, a quiet professional, often hears players early in the game bragging about how they're going to stop him. He rarely says anything in return and by the time the game is over he doesn't need to. The cleat marks on a linebacker's back says volumes. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 30, 1994, on Page 8008003 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL; He's Small. He's Elusive. He's a Star. Yes, He's Barry Sanders.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »