Advertisement By HARVEY ARATON and  The 30-year-old Bavarian painter and classical string musician did not come between Tommy Moe and Kjetil Andre Aamodt today. Markus Wasmeier of Germany exceeded both the American Alpine darling of the Winter Olympics, and the Norwegian World Cup leader and defending Olympic gold medalist in the super-giant slalom. Neither was about to begrudge Wasmeier, not after 10 years roaming the circuit as a perennial contender who had earned no Olympic medals and survived a back injury that nearly ruined him four years ago. "He's a true skier," said Moe. "I'm happy for Markus. I'm happy for myself." Why wouldn't he be? Moe already had the really big prize, the downhill gold medal. The silver he claimed today in the Super-G was icing on his 24th birthday cake and an Olympics that has thrust him meteorically among the world's Alpine elite, not to mention onto the cover of Sports Illustrated, two weeks after the magazine chided him as "the top U.S. man, but no soaring success story." Moe is the first American man to win two Alpine ski medals at the same Winter Games. Phil Mahre, who won a silver medal in the slalom in 1980 and a gold in that same event in 1984, is the only other American man with two Alpine medals. Advertisement When he crossed the finish line, 8-hundredths of a second behind Wasmeier's time of 1 minute 32.53 seconds, fans in the grandstand burst into a raucous rendition of "Happy Birthday," not only to Moe but also to Norway's Atle Skaardal, who finished sixth. Advertisement Soon, Jan Kvinnsland from the Norwegian ski federation was holding a birthday cake, and the whole lot of early finishers, all three medalists included, were chowing down in 10-degree weather as if the foot of the Kvitfjell course were some patisserie along the Champs-Elysees. How all this actually tasted to Aamodt was a delicately handled subject at the news conference later in the day, when the hometown favorite sullenly waited as Moe, his mountain-boy face flush from success and his day outdoors, cleanly fielded all the flattering questions about what it felt like to be one of the new sheriffs on the tour. This was supposed to be showtime for Aamodt, but Moe stole the downhill from him last Sunday, by 4-hundredths of a second, less than two minutes after Aamodt had taken the lead and his fans had burst into patriotic song. Emerging as an Alpine power at the Albertville Games two years ago, the Norwegians had naturally targeted Lillehammer for their crowning achievement, especially with Aamodt, the 22-year-old from Oslo who was considered a contender in all five Alpine events. Five medals, still a real possibility, would be remarkable in itself, although only a consolation prize if Aamodt fails to win a gold. "For sure," he said. "I feel it will not only be enough for me to win a medal." Years ago, this would have been near desecration of native custom and, in Aamodt's case, it was. Among people who frown upon excessive ambition and self-promotion, Aamodt was not typically well received when, early in his career, he declared that his goal was to be the best Alpine skier in the world. "Janteloven," the expression representing this Norwegian social code, means, said Aamodt, "If you do something special, you shouldn't think you are special."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Even before the Olympics were awarded to Lillehammer in 1988, younger Norwegians were challenging "Janteloven." The desire to build the sports programs for these Olympics overwhelmed it. The government poured $1 billion into sports. Two years ago, a book with "Janteloven" printed on its cover was ceremonially tossed into the sea by a government minister. Aamodt and friends were free to publicly aim for the stars, to think and act, he said, like Tommy Moe. Advertisement "The American dream is to be No. 1," he said. "The American dream has come to Norway." That had to make the first two medal ceremonies all the more galling for Aamodt. He has raced the best of the heavily favored skiers, only to be beaten by men experiencing the races of their lives. Married and with a child, Wasmeier not long ago was contemplating retiring to paint antiques, to play his viola and zitar. When he bumped into Diann Roffe-Steinrotter, who on Tuesday also came from nowhere to steal the women's Super-G, she told him, "You can do it, too." "I said, 'Yes, yes,' " said Wasmeier. "Like it was a good joke." He was the fourth racer down the Super-G course, a downhill with well-spaced gates, right after Moe had run 1:32.61, making one costly mistake, a late turn at a gate near the bottom. Moe said he chose a high position because his coach, Bill Egan, had, by draw, been given the task of laying a course that no one had yet skied. Aamodt skied the eighth position, so this time, he knew what he needed, at least to beat Moe. He couldn't. "I lost some time in the middle," he said. When he removed his goggles and looked at the board, his expression gave away his frustration. He was in a better mood after the downhill, happy to let Moe have his day. Now he had been beaten in a race he was supposed to win. Silver or no silver, it was another close loss at home, another blown chance to educate millions watching on American television. "In the U.S., they think Norway is the capital of Sweden," he said. "Well," he decided, "we still have three more events to go." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 18, 1994, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: WINTER OLYMPICS; Wasmeier Finally Paints His Masterpiece as Moe Takes the Silver.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »