Advertisement By JACK CURRY In gestures that mirrored a failed strategy, the Yankees' managing partner, Joseph Molloy, put a hand over his mouth and General Manager Gene Michael slumped in his folding chair when the Colorado Rockies chose third baseman Charlie Hayes yesterday with their second pick in the expansion draft. Before the draft was even 15 minutes old, the Yankees said goodbye to a reliable starter and said hello to another nagging hole in their lineup. They took a big chance by not including Hayes on their 15-player protected list, and when Colorado made Hayes the third player picked over all, the Yankees' most dependable third baseman in five years had been snatched away. They had gambled and lost. With Hayes gone, minor league prospects Hensley Meulens and Dave Silvestri, and utilityman Randy Velarde immediately became third-base candidates, while the Yankees also began exploring possible trades or free-agent signings. Why didn't the Yankees protect Hayes? "We gambled a little," Michael said. "We gambled on young players. We thought that maybe he could get through the first round. It was a gamble. We knew we were going to lose somebody good." Advertisement The farm-system rich Yankees may have been ravaged more than any other club as they also lost highly touted Class A center fielder Carl Everett, whom the Florida Marlins tabbed with the first pick of the second round, and Class AAA catcher Brad Ausmus, who was taken by Colorado as the second pick in the third round. Though the Yankees did not reveal all four players they protected after the first round, Michaels said that Meulens and Velarde had been pulled back. The other six players protected between rounds likely came from among outfielder Danny Tartabull, relievers Steve Farr, Rich Monteleone and John Habyan; starter Scott Kamieniecki, minor league pitchers Roberto Munoz and Rafael Quirico, and minor leaguer catcher Kiki Hernandez. Advertisement Had Hayes been sneaked through the first round, Michael said the Yankees would have protected him. Since Michael and Manager Buck Showalter were enamored with Hayes, it seemed possible that they were overruled by Yankee minor league executives in Tampa who wanted to protect younger players like Silvestri and a Class AA third baseman, Russ Davis. "I would never discuss something like that," Michael said. Brian Sabean, the Yankees' vice president of player development who is based in Tampa, scoffed at that notion. "If you're insinuating that minor league people are making decisions over major league people, you're way off base," Sabean said. Whatever the machinations, the Yankees took a huge hit in losing Hayes. After being obtained from Philadelphia for a minor league pitcher last year, Hayes, who is 27 years old, played steady defense, batted .257 with 18 homers and 66 runs batted in. Before Hayes arrived, eight players mishandled the position in 1991 while combining to hit .225 with 37 errors and 38 runs batted in.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The state of the Yankee third-base situation now has left the team with two players in Meulens and Velarde who have lost previous opportunities to win the job, and another, in Silvestri, who is basically a shortstop. Meulens hit 26 homers and drove in 100 runs for Class AAA Columbus last season, but also made 30 errors and struck out 168 times. Velarde, who also played shortstop and the outfield for the Yankees, batted .272 in 412 times up, with 57 runs scored and 46 batted in. "We'll consider everything," said Michael, about filling the third-base gap. "Free agents, trades, everything." The Yankees declined to discuss the available free-agent third basemen, but among the most desirable are Dave Magadan, Kevin Seitzer and Wade Boggs. Advertisement Magadan, a third baseman-first baseman with the Mets since 1986, could be the best fit for the Yankees. He said yesterday that he had spoken to the Yankees before yesterday.  With Hayes gone, Magadan said it "could open up another avenue for me." Appealing Offer "I've always enjoyed playing in New York," Magadan said, in a telephone interview from Tampa, Fla.  "It's something that would appeal to me, playing for the Yankees." Heading to Colorado sounded appealing to Hayes, who was partly miffed and partly excited about being chosen. "I was surprised I wasn't protected," Hayes said. "They talked the whole year about the job I was doing. Now I'm a Rockie. I got to start thinking that way." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 18, 1992, on Page B00009 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Rockies Pick Hayes, Leaving Yanks Stranded.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »