Advertisement By JAIME DIAZ and  In perfect concert with the underdog tradition of golf's fourth major championship, Gene Sauers continued to play the best golf of his life today to maintain his two-shot lead at the 74th P.G.A. Championship. The 29-year-old Sauers fired a one-under-par 70, punctuated by an eagle 3 at the 17th hole, for a 54-hole total of seven-under 206 that put space between him and several other underdogs, and even more between Sauers and some of golf's biggest names. The closest pursuers are second-year pro Jeff Maggert, who fired a course-record 65, and Nick Price of Zimbabwe. John Cook and Jim Gallagher Jr. are at 210, and Mark Brooks is at 211. "That putt went right between some spike marks," said Sauers of the 25-footer he made for an eagle. "I said thank you very much. Sometimes everything just goes your way." Advertisement The top six are the only players under par, and none have ever won a major championship, although Price finished second in the British Open in 1982 and 1988, and Cook did likewise last month at Muirfield. Advertisement But at the championship where recent winners have included John Daly, Wayne Grady, Jeff Sluman and Bob Tway, having a marquee name almost seems to be unnecessary baggage. The closest stars are barely within shouting distance. Ray Floyd and Paul Azinger are at par 216, and Fred Couples and Tom Kite are at 218. Nick Faldo, the biggest name of all, and the man who was expected to take charge today, is at one-over 217 after a disastrous five-over 76 in which missed putts eventually caused the most solid tee-to-green game in golf to unravel. For Faldo, who has not finished worst than eighth in a tournament since The Masters, the score tied his highest of the year. "I just played badly," said a terse Faldo, who missed six putts of under 10 feet, as he left the 18th green for the practice tee. "I just lost it. Tomorrow will be a hard day. It's not impossible, so I just have to find out what I'm doing wrong. I've just got to go for it. I've got nothing to lose." In a different way, Sauers, who came into this championship 36th on the PGA Tour money list and is the winner of two tournaments in nine years on the Tour, can say the same thing. "I was a little nervous on the first tee, but nothing major," said the soft-spoken native of Savannah, Ga., who is trying to treat this week as a run-of-the-mill event. "This is how I approach every golf tournament. Maybe I'm trying to kid myself, but I can sit here and say I can. I won't know until tonight. I think I can . . . I hope."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Daly went through the same dilemma last year, and passed with flying colors to win by three strokes. Price thinks Sauers can, too. 'He Has a Big Heart' "Golf is such a day-to-day game; I don't know if experience always matters," said Price, whose caddy, Jeff (Squeaky) Medlen, caddied for Daly at Crooked Stick. "You go with how you feel over each shot. Gene is a very solid player. He has a big heart. We are going to have to go out and beat him tomorrow. I don't think he's going to give it to us." Advertisement It will indeed be hard to come from behind if Sauers continues to play solidly. Bellerive was more grudging than ever with birdies today, as its greens became firmer and more spike-marked. Sauers said the greens were so hard the sound of a ball landing on them was "like my little son's head hitting the floor." But Maggert and Cook proved today that low scores can be shot. Maggert, who is winless in his two seasons on the Tour but has contended on several occasions, had six birdies and no bogeys. His final three birdies came on the final three holes, climaxing after a 3-iron to 12 feet on the 454-yard par-four 18th hole. Cook's Recurring Memory "I don't think anybody is going to go out and make seven birdies on Sunday," said Maggert, who is playing in his fourth major championship and the only one he has ever made the cut in. "I'm just going to be patient and try not to make any bogeys again." For Cook, a victory would be wonderful comeback from his heartbreak at the British Open at Muirfield, where he missed a two-foot putt on the 71st hole and bogeyed the 72d to lose by one to Faldo. "I think about it a couple of times a day," admitted Cook. "I don't dwell on it, but I definitely think about it." Just as he did in the final round at Muirfield, Cook recovered from a double bogey on the front nine today, coming back to play the back nine in four-under 31. He said his strategy on Sunday will be to get in position on the front nine and see what it will take to win. "I'm going to go out and give 1000 percent," said the 34-year-old Cook. "I think Muirfield was a great experience -- everything about it. One thing I learned was that I've got to control myself before I can control anything else." Of course, if Sauers, who has led after every round, can continue to control himself, it will take a great deal indeed to keep him from going wire to wire. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 16, 1992, on Page 8008001 of the National edition with the headline: GOLF; 17th-Hole Eagle Keeps Sauers Soaring in P.G.A.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »