Advertisement By ROBERT LIPSYTE "Fay Vincent . . . was more intelligent than Bowie Kuhn, more interested in the game and the problems of the industry than Peter Ueberroth . . . and far less pompous and righteous and less of a dilettante than A. Bartlett Giamatti." It was respect at first sight for Marvin Miller, the unionist whose leadership brought baseball players collective power and individual riches. The quote is from his 1991 memoir, "A Whole Different Ballgame" (Birch Lane Press). Miller was not the only one who hoped that Vincent, Giamatti's assistant, would become a wise and benevolent father figurehead to this factionalized sport, one of the more important and defining soap operas we follow. Because Vincent was rich, smart and experienced, it was assumed he would understand that he was an employee of the owners, but must never seem to toady to them; that the players were his children, but he must never give the impression that he delighted too much in their wondrous talents, and that he must pretend to also serve the fans and the news media, even though baseball considers them ants at the picnic. Baseball has had only one such full-image commissioner, Kenesaw Mountain Landis, who was hired in 1921 to "safeguard the interests of the national game" after the Black Sox scandal. Landis reigned for 23 years. His reputation has been polished like a loving cup. But from such scholars as Jules Tygiel, Harold Seymour and David Voigt comes a more rounded portrait of the former grandstanding Federal judge, many of whose opinions were overturned, and who as commissioner meted out erratic punishments and successfully blocked integration. Advertisement Fay Vincent's image didn't last much beyond his first year for Miller and others. At the San Francisco Earthquake-World Series, Vincent's take-charge attitude was later re-evaluated as an attempt to take credit for the work of nature and civil engineers. His suspension of George Steinbrenner was picked apart: Where was the due in the process? Besides, Vincent would only punish an owner who most other owners wanted punished. Advertisement And now he is being labeled a tyrant and a bully for calling three Yankee executives onto his carpet and scolding them for expressing themselves under oath. Whatever happened to free speech? References to facism are being quoted from unnamed Yankee sources. The case itself is simple. Last month, Vincent indefinitely suspended Steve Howe after the talented Yankee relief pitcher entered a guilty plea on a charge of attempted possession of cocaine following an off-season arrest. It was the seventh time that Howe had been suspended for violating baseball's drug policy. The Yankees need Howe's arm, and they reacted by calling Vincent's action unfair and draconian and premature -- couldn't he wait until the trial in August? Howe appealed Vincent's ruling, and it was at his arbitration hearing that Buck Showalter, the Yankee manager; Gene Michaels, the general manager, and John Lawn, a Yankee vice president and a former head of the Drug Enforcement Administration, apparently testified that they disagreed with baseball's drug policy in general and the banning of Howe in particular.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Skeptical observers have asked, where were the Yankees when Howe really needed them? But that does not seem to be Vincent's major beef. He seems outraged at their seeming contempt for his office. By attacking baseball's drug policy, they seem to be attacking one of the commissioner's attempts to safeguard the interests of the national game. Vincent's summoning them right before a home game -- making them late, yet! -- has been construed as an arrogant misuse of his power. Vincent claims the power to suspend them. Apparently, he is going to let them twist in the wind through Independence weekend before issuing a decision. If he backs down, he will be marked weak by this macho sport and its barking dogs. If he suspends them, he will become a cartoonist's target -- a tin-pot dictator waving a Louisville Slugger sword. There is, of course, a third possibility. Vincent can get tough and become the first real commissioner baseball has ever had, using this case to step out and clean up the game of drugs, gambling, discrimination, sexual assault and maybe even collusion. Commissioner Landis, in declaring baseball's equivalent of martial law, got powers for the owners and himself that seem never to have been used in the national game's best interests, if the nation is part of this equation. A strong and committed commissioner, using those powers, could force an affirmative action program that would make all of baseball reflect the black and Hispanic presence on the field. He could root out gambling, even if there were some uncomfortable revelations about owners and executives as well as players. He could create a moral climate in which the boys-will-be-boys attitude toward groupies and group sex would not be seen as a byproduct of the game. And he could start by standing up to these Yankee hypocrites who were only interested in the testing of Howe's arm. There needs to be aggressive drug testing that is part of a humane approach to all of a player's medical problems -- the very real concerns of the players' union have to do with privacy, individual rights and a history in which owners have used doctors against player patients. Let's see Commissioner Vincent regain the respect that Marvin Miller first gave him. He seems to have the stuff. And now he has the case. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 3, 1992, on Page B00009 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; If Vincent Is Butting In, Who Is Being Put Out?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »