Advertisement By MURRAY CHASS and  If the words their chief labor executive spoke today were not simply rhetoric, major league baseball club owners may be backing away from their "three-imp" plan: impose a freeze on free-agent signings, declare an impasse in negotiations for a new labor agreement and implement the salary cap they covet. Richard Ravitch, the management official, offered hints of change following a 90-minute meeting that signaled the resumption of talks after a 39-day hiatus during which the World Series was obliterated for the first time in 90 years. Ravitch led a contingent of 11 club owners and executives in the first formal bargaining session since Sept. 9. Donald Fehr, the players' labor leader, led a group of six players, and they all met with Bill Usery Jr., the veteran mediator, whom the White House has asked to help settle the difficult dispute. "We didn't talk about substantive matters in the true sense of trying to exchange proposals," Usery said at a news briefing at the International Club, where the meeting was held. "That was not what the meeting was for." The meeting, Usery added, "was constructive from my point of view." Advertisement The mediator did not schedule a further joint session, explaining that he would first meet with representatives of the two sides separately. He said he would call a joint session "as soon as I think it's feasible." That time, he said, could be in a week or 10 days or later. Advertisement But the most promising aspect of the day might have been Ravitch's comments on the owners' plans for the immediate future. He did not rule out any possible steps the owners could take that would affect players and their ability to sign contracts, but he seemed to indicate nothing was imminent. "I hope at no point in this process will we say anything publicly or privately or do anything we don't absolutely have to do that could harm or impair the ability to get a mutually agreeable resolution to this dispute," the chief negotiator said. "I'm not going to speculate on what happens if this process is not successful because I have every expectation that it will be." The most immediate step the owners would have to take would be to impose the freeze that would put off the start of the free-agent signing period from Oct. 30 to Dec. 1. Management lawyers have talked of wanting to have a new system in place before clubs started signing players and seemed set to impose the freeze unilaterally after the union refused to agree to it. But when asked about the Oct. 30 date, Ravitch said: "We don't have to make any decision whatsoever on any particular date. In our judgment this process is going to be the method by which this dispute is resolved and we don't consider there to be any outside date by which we absolutely, as a legal matter, have to do anything."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Because Ravitch referred to "a legal matter," he was asked if the clubs would impose the freeze as a practical matter. "We have no contemplation of taking any legal steps whatsoever at this point," he said. "We reserve our right to do what we're legally entitled to, but we have no current expectation and there was no discussion with the negotiating committee about our proceeding with any legal steps whatsoever. We are fully committed to the process that Bill Usery has set in motion today and that's where all our energy is going." Ravitch's words, and the owners' intentions, would be the most promising development in the 69-day-old strike if they are as stated. Union officials are geared to take legal action on various fronts if the owners implement anything the players don't like, and new legal battles would make a settlement much less likely. If the two sides are busy skirmishing before the National Labor Relations Board, for example, they could not focus their efforts on trying to negotiate a new collective bargaining agreement. If the owners were to declare an impasse and implement the salary cap, for example, the players would charge them with bad-faith bargaining. If they were to impose a freeze on free agents, the players would accuse them of collusion and seek triple damages under a provision in the expired agreement. Advertisement When the talks broke off, the union expected the owners to prepare for an impasse. "The assumption on our side was that was their then current intention," Fehr said. "Whether they thought better of it remains to be seen." The "imps," Fehr said, did not come up at the meeting. Referring to Ravitch's comments after the meeting, Fehr said: "He said they reserve the right to do whatever they think they have to do. He's always been clear on that." The owners may decide not to declare an impasse because of the legal risks involved in such a move, and they may decide not to implement a salary cap because their strike-reduced revenues would adversely affect their proposal. It remains to be seen where the two sides ultimately will focus their efforts, but for now they stated their willingness to try it Usery's way. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 20, 1994, on Page B00017 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; A Hint Of Hope By Baseball Owners.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »