Advertisement By WILLIAM N. WALLACE On the practice fields of St. Michael's College, then in Winooski, Vt., where the Giants once performed their preseason labors, there was a distant shed used as a marker. Jim Lee Howell, the coach, would order the players to run laps, twice around the shed, at the end of practice. "What Jim Lee didn't know," said Dick Modzelewski, "was that at night we would move the shed a little closer. But not too close. And Jim Lee never caught on." One hot day the squad was divided into two groups and Modzelewski, a defensive tackle in the first group, chose to squat and hide behind the shed until the second group was on its last lap. Then he would rejoin the group. "Nobody came around," Modzelewski said. "I didn't dare take a peek. Then I saw these long gray sweatpants coming. It was Jim Lee. He blew his top. And I was scared. I didn't want to lose the job. They were paying me $8,000." Advertisement Modzelewski told this story yesterday during the National Football Foundation's luncheon honoring him and 12 others being inducted into the College Hall of Fame. The induction will take place at the foundation's annual dinner in the Waldorf-Astoria tonight. Advertisement An all-American at Maryland, Modelewski joins five Giants teammates in the College Hall of Fame: Charlie Conerly, the late Don Heinrich, Sam Huff, Kyle Rote and Tom Scott. Conerly was at the luncheon as was Scott, a director of the foundation, and Andy Robustelli, a businessman from Stamford, Conn., who came to visit Little Mo, his former roommate. Modzelewski, 62 and living in retirement in New Bern, N.C., was called Little Mo because he was a year younger than Ed, his smaller fullback brother and also a notable player for Coach Jim Tatum at Maryland in the early 1950's. The Modzelewskis came from West Natrona, Pa., sons of a Polish immigrant who neither read nor spoke English and who worked in the mines for 33 years.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Said Modzelewski: "Andy, remember the Hong Kong suits?" Robustelli had made arrangements with a tailor in Hong Kong to provide custom-made suits for the Giants. The price, $21 each, had appeal. Robustelli took the measurements and Modzelewski wrote down the numbers.  A Skeptical Tailor Weeks later when the suits arrived there was a fitting crisis. "Bobby Epps's suit didn't fit him but it did fit Cliff Livingston," said Modzelewski. "We had to kind of trade around," said Robustelli. "Everyone was mad at me for writing the numbers down wrong," said Modzelewski. "What happened," said Robustelli, "was that when the Chinese tailors in Hong Kong got the numbers they couldn't believe there were people as big as us. So they took four inches off everything." "Those Giants. We were so close, like a family." said Modzelewski, who played for 14 years and coached for 22 more in the National Football League. As an assistant coach he tried to instill that sense of family with his teams in Cleveland, Cincinnati, Green Bay and Detroit. "It worked with some," he said. "But not with most." The 1958 Giants, who lost the N.F.L. championship to the Baltimore Colts in overtime, will hold a 35th reunion on Saturday night and will be honored at halftime of the Giants-Indianapolis game at Giants Stadium on Sunday. EXTRA POINTS Fifteen college players won the National Football Foundation's $18,000 postgraduate scholarship for athletic and scholastic achievements: TREV ALBERTS, Nebraska; KEN ALEXANDER, Florida State; MIKE BEDOSKY, Missouri; TIM BENSON, Hampton; TOM BURNS, Virginia; KEITH ELIAS, Princeton; JUSTIN HALL, New Mexico; MATT MILLER, Cornell; JIM NEVELLE, Washington; TIM RUDDY, Notre Dame; ANTHONY RUSSO, St. John's; JERRY SPATNY, Ashland; CRAIG STAUB, William and Mary; MIKE TURMELLE, Bowdoin, and STEVE WASYLK, Michigan State. . . . DICK MODZELEWSKI advised the student-athletes to savor the memories of their football days: "When you get older, you'll realize those were the best days of your life." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 7, 1993, on Page B00019 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL; Little Mo Can Remember When Giants Were Giants.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »