Advertisement By CLIFTON BROWN and  The Knicks, who escaped with last-minute victories in their previous two games, could not get away tonight and are no longer unbeaten. Overcoming a 6-point deficit in the final three minutes, the Washington Bullets stunned New York, 106-104, before a capacity crowd at the Capital Centre. It was Washington's first victory this season after four consecutive losses, and it was the Knicks' first loss after three consecutive victories. The outcome wasted an outstanding performance by rookie shooting guard Hubert Davis (22 points, 11-for-19 shooting), who had the best game of his young career. "We just did not finish the game," said Knicks Coach Pat Riley. "They got some key offensive rebounds, some key baskets. We had our chances. We have nobody to blame but ourselves." Squandered Last Chance Advertisement Trailing, 105-104, with 18.8 seconds to play, the Knicks flubbed their final opportunity. Greg Anthony passed to Patrick Ewing (24 points, 13 rebounds) in the lane, while Ewing was surrounded by three Bullets. Ewing passed to John Starks at the top of the key with about 7 seconds to play, but Starks fumbled the pass, allowing Rex Chapman to recover on defense. Advertisement "I was bumped by Michael Adams," Starks said when asked how he lost control of the pass. "But at that time of the game, a foul usually isn't called." Starks quickly recovered the ball, but with time running out he launched an off-balance 20-foot jumper that bounced long off the back rim with 2 seconds to play. Chapman rebounded and was fouled by Ewing with .05 seconds to play. Chapman made one of two free throws and the Knicks never got off another shot. "The play was designed to go to me, but when I saw everyone collapse on me, I kicked it back out to John," Ewing said. "Unfortunately, the shot didn't drop." Said Starks, "It felt good, but it wasn't." Washington's game-winning basket came on a fluke play. As Chapman (27 points) drove down the lane, he was confronted by Ewing about five feet from the basket. Chapman stumbled as he tried to elude Ewing and wound up throwing the ball off balance toward the basket. But Pervis Ellison (16 points) was in the right place at the right time. He grabbed Chapman's wild shot in midair and dunked it with 18.8 seconds to play, putting the Bullets ahead for good and setting up the final sequence. "That's how we drew it up on the blackboard," Ellison said in jest. "We needed this win badly, and even when we got behind, we just kept playing."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Knicks appeared safe when Davis made a jumper, Anthony missed a wild jumper with the 24-second clock about to expire. On Washington's next possession, Ewing fouled Harvey Grant on a drive, and Grant made both free throws. Finally, after Anthony Mason was called for an offensive foul for running over Chapman, the Bullets tied it. Advertisement Chapman missed a jumper, but the rebound deflected off Tom Gugliotta's hands and into the arms of Ellison, whose layup tied the game, 101-101, with 1 minute 34 seconds left. Ewing made a turnaround jumper in the lane to put the Knicks ahead by 2 again, but Ellison grabbed a huge offensive rebound, was fouled by Ewing and made both free throws, tying the score at 103 with 54.8 seconds left. Then Ewing made just 1 of 2 free throws with 22.3 seconds left, giving the Bullets their chance to go ahead. "Give the Bullets credit, we expected a tough game and we got it," Riley said. REBOUNDS ANTHONY MASON sprained his right ankle in the first half and said it was sore after the game. He did not know if he would play Saturday night against the Boston Celtics. Knicks Ready to Sign Center LANDOVER, Md., Nov. 13 -- The Knicks are expected to sign free agent Herb Williams as a backup center, perhaps as early as Saturday. Bo Kimble, a backup guard, has agreed to restructure the three years remaining on his guaranteed contract, giving New York room under the salary cap to sign Williams. It is believed Kimble deferred around $300,000 of this year's salary to a later season. "We're real close to a deal," George Andrews, Williams's agent, said in a telephone interview tonight. "It's an excellent situation for Herb, playing for a contender and playing for Pat Riley. We've been working on this for some time, hoping to get this done." Williams, who is 6 feet 10 inches and 33-years-old, is an 11-year National Basketball Association veteran who played the last four seasons with the Dallas Mavericks. Williams averaged 11.5 points and 6.1 rebounds last season in 75 games. He is expected to be a backup at both center and forward. The Knicks may have to release Eric Anderson to make room on the roster for Williams. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 14, 1992, on Page 1001029 of the National edition with the headline: PRO BASKETBALL; Knicks Surrender Lead And Undefeated Record.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »