Advertisement By DAVE ANDERSON JON OLSEN thought he had won an Olympic bronze medal. When he looked up at the scoreboard above the chlorine-blue pool after splashing through the 100-meter freestyle, his name was below that of Aleksandr Popov of the Unified Team and Stephan Caron of France. Minutes later, as the 23-year-old American prepared to go to the medal ceremony, he heard a voice crackle across an official's walkie-talkie: Gustavo Borges of Brazil had earned the silver. "I knew," the United States swimmer was saying now, "that pushed me down to fourth." There's no medal for fourth. No news conference. No picture in the paper. No face on the television news. No hometown celebration. No fulfillment for swimming when the world wasn't watching. No reason for his shaved head. No line in the Olympic records. "It was kinda hard to swallow at first," Olsen was saying now. "I was very ecstatic to have a bronze medal. To have it taken away, I wasn't angry, just disappointed. It would've been easier to really finish fourth than to be dropped to fourth." The problem was that when Borges touched the contact pad, it didn't register on the computer. At first the Brazilian was listed as having finished eighth and last without a time. Advertisement "I left the pool, I was in tears," Borges recalled. "I knew I wasn't eighth. I knew I wasn't far behind Popov. I knew I was a little ahead of Matt Biondi. When I saw that my name wasn't on the scoreboard, I was extremely disappointed. I felt like arguing, but I didn't feel like I had much say in the matter. My coaches did and they argued. I was in the warm-up pool when like five people told me. Even a cameraman was yelling, 'You finished second.' " Advertisement When the Olympic officials checked the film of the race, they realized Borges had indeed finished second. "Will Gustavo Borges of Brazil," the public-address system boomed, "please report to the medal stand." Which meant that Jon Olsen would not be standing on the medal stand. But that's what it was like yesterday for the United States swimmers. Janet Evans, who won three gold medals in Seoul in 1988, hadn't lost the 400-meter freestyle in 18 major international and national meets since 1986, but yesterday she finished second to Dagmar Hase of Germany. Matt Biondi, who won five gold medals in Seoul and still holds the world record for the 100-meter freestyle, finished fifth. "I don't feel like I have anything to complain about," Evans said. "I've done a lot as far as swimming is concerned. Just hanging in for four years."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Just knowing how to lose, too. She had hugged Hase and she had cheerfully waved to the crowd as she walked around the pool after the medal ceremony. Now, as she spoke, her voice kept breaking. But at least she had a medal. Biondi didn't. "I was leading with 75 meters to go," Biondi was saying now, "then I began to wobble." At 6 feet 7 inches, 26-year-old Matt Biondi's stature as the first prosperous Olympic swimmer depends on medals, especially gold medals. He still has a chance for three golds: today's 400-meter freestyle relay, tomorrow's 50-meter freestyle and Friday's 400-meter medley relay. But he's a different swimmer now. "When you're in college," he said, referring to the University of California at Berkeley, "you're part of the system. When you're out of college, you're outside the system. It's difficult for me to find the competition and the training and the motivation." As the winner of seven medals in Seoul (five gold, one silver, one bronze after a 1984 gold in Los Angeles), Biondi emerged as the first swimmer to live in luxury while still competing. His contracts with Arena swimwear, Ray Ban sunglasses and Evian water earned him hundreds of thousands of dollars over the last four years. Advertisement "For the first time," he has said, "a swimmer has been exhausted economically before physically." But when Biondi was thinking about real-estate investments and Individual Retirement Accounts, he wasn't thinking about swimming. Or history. If he had won the 100 yesterday, he would have joined the most recent Olympic swimmers to have repeated in that event, both Americans: Johnny Weissmuller in 1924 and 1928, Duke Kahanamoku in 1912 and 1920. Terry Cashman might have written a song about them: Matty, Tarzan and the Duke. Not now. "In the Olympics," said the swimmer who would know, "you've got to have it at that moment." Matt Biondi didn't have it yesterday. And even when Jon Olsen thought he had it, he didn't. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 29, 1992, on Page B00009 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; The Ecstasy Of a Medal, Then Agony.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »