Advertisement By JACK CURRY and  Although the Yankees had played 160 games and the final weekend of the season was upon them after tonight's 6-3 victory over the Red Sox, they were still occasionally showing signs of an organization without direction. The latest flash involves the coaching staff and two of their front-line players. There has been speculation over the last month that the Yankees would make at least two changes among their coaches and renounce the rights to outfielder Mel Hall. It has also become clear in the last few weeks that they would probably buy out pitcher Scott Sanderson's contract for $250,000, instead of bringing him back next season at $2.5 million. But when Manager Buck Showalter was asked today to react to a report in Newsday that outlined changes in his coaching staff for next season and said the Yankees would let Hall and Sanderson become free agents, he said the decisions had not been reached. 'Anything Is Possible' "Those things couldn't be true because we didn't finalize things," said Showalter, who met with the Yankees' managing partner Joseph Molloy and General Manager Gene Michael for two hours in a Boston hotel earlier today to discuss possible changes. "I don't know yet. Anything is possible." Advertisement That the Yankees would allow Hall and Sanderson to become free agents would surprise no one. Shortly after the World Series concludes, they must make an official decision about both, so they appear to be delaying an announcement while finishing their regular schedule. Some Coaches in Peril Advertisement In cost-cutting moves, the Yankees have already folded two minor league teams and eliminated extended spring training and the Instructional League. By renouncing the rights to Hall and not going to arbitration, the club would probably save at least $2 million that his 15 homers and 80 runs batted in would have won him. And by buying out their option on the 36-year-old Sanderson (12-10, 4.76 earned run average), the Yankes would save an additional $2.25 million. Neither Molloy nor Michael were available to comment on the anticipated changes today. But Showalter said: "They've got a pretty good idea about what we're going to do. We're going to use the whole time frame between now and when it has to be done. As far as making wholesale announcements, I don't think that's necessary."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. According to the report, which appeared in Newsday yesterday citing "team sources," only third-base coach Clete Boyer would retain his current position. The other five coaches would be juggled or dismissed, as follows: bullpen coach Tony Cloninger would replace pitching coach Mark Connor; bullpen catcher Glenn Sherlock would replace Cloninger, and first-base coach Eddie Napoleon would become the bench coach with 68-year-old Russ Meyer being asked to retire. Frank Howard would shift from batting coach to first-base coach, the sources were quoted as saying, with Class AAA Columbus Manager Rick Down being promoted to batting coach. Showalter, who was fired as the Yankee third-base coach last October before being rehired as manager 22 days later, said he was sympathetic to the tenuous position his six coaches are in. Though Showalter signed a three-year contract extension as manager in July, he was in the same uncertain position for the last four years as a coach. "There could be some interesting things happening by Sunday, I hope, or even by tomorrow night," Showalter said. "I'd like to be able to tell them this weekend." INSIDE PITCH Rookie BOB WICKMAN tossed six innings of one-run baseball to help the Yankees defeat the Red Sox at Fenway Park. MEL HALL homered off loser JOHN DOPSON and drove in two runs. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 3, 1992, on Page 1001033 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Yanks Contemplating Changes (Gasp!).  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »