Advertisement By JOSEPH SIANO ANY good Indianapolis-car driver will tell you that if you venture too far into the ''gray area'' - the outside edge of a turn, where dust and dirt build up - you face a considerable risk of crashing. The same holds true for car builders who go too far into the gray area of the rule book. Just ask Derrick Walker, general manager of the Porsche Motorsport Indy-car team. Late last year, Walker and his team of chassis designers in England were at work on what they believed would be an innovative new car for 1990. But in January, his new car was banned by a vote of his competitors, and before the first race of 1990, Walker's team was already several laps behind the competition. Advertisement When his fellow team bosses told Walker to park his new car, his team was literally sent back to the drawing board at a time when his competitors were already taking delivery of their 1990 cars. Advertisement The hastily built replacement wasn't ready for the season-opening race at Phoenix on April 8, so Teo Fabi and John Andretti, the team's two drivers, started in the middle of the pack in last year's cars. Both drivers also used the 1989 car in the season's second race, at Long Beach, Calif., last Sunday, and Fabi finished an uncompetitive 10th. Now, just as the team should be fine-tuning for its biggest race of the year, the Indianapolis 500, it is trying to catch up. ''It has damaged our program pretty severely,'' Walker said of the decision by the Championship Auto Racing Teams board of directors, of which he is a member. Walker, a Scot who turned 45 years old the day of the Phoenix race, became general manager of the Porsche Motorsport Indy-car team, based in Warrington, Pa., in October 1988. Since then, the team has steadily grown more competitive, winning its first race last year in Ohio. This season, the team looked to be one of the favorites at Indianapolis, especially after Walker spotted what he called a ''window of opportunity'' in the new Indy-car rules. He and the engineers at March, the British company that builds the chassis for the Porsche engine, decided to create the first Indy-car made completely of carbon fiber, a lightweight, strong material also used in ski equipment. Advertisement The old rules used by CART, the Indy-car sanctioning body, said the lower part of the chassis had to be made of aluminum. The new rules said aluminum wouldn't necessarily be required anymore. A chassis (or ''tub,'' as it's also known) made entirely of carbon fiber would be lighter and more rigid than ones with aluminum in them. And with several pounds trimmed off the chassis, a designer could beef up failure-prone parts and use ballast to make the car handle better without increasing its overall weight. ''We caught the other teams with their pants down,'' Walker said. ''They hadn't thought that far ahead and read the rules that clearly.'' But his competitors, it turned out, might have read a different meaning into that passage in the rule book. The new CART rules say that before such a chassis can be raced, crash-testing standards must be developed and submitted to CART's board of directors for its approval. The next sentence says that beginning with cars built for the 1991 season, any chassis not made of aluminum will be eligible as long as it meets or exceeds CART specifications. The rule book doesn't specifically preclude approval of such a car for the 1990 season. But the mention of the year 1991, combined with the haggling and delay over the new rules last year, may have led many car owners to think the carbon-fiber chassis was a dead issue for 1990. It is those car owners - Walker and his fellow individual franchise holders who represent most teams on the Indy-car circuit - who make up CART's board of directors. Advertisement The issue came before the 21-member CART board at its winter meetings in Palm Springs, Calif. In a secret ballot, it voted Jan. 10 to disallow the Porsche chassis for 1990, while encouraging further development of crash-test standards with an eye toward the 1991 season. Walker rebuilt his 1990 car to the old standards. It arrived from England just three weeks before the Phoenix race.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. By then, Roger Penske's team, for example, had recorded 3,500 test miles on its new car. Walker said he was lucky to get 100 test miles on the replacement before the Phoenix race. CART's board wasn't doing anything its rules didn't allow, and the reasoning behind the chassis-construction rule was a concern for safety, an area where CART has a strong reputation. But Walker said safety was never really an issue with this kind of chassis, which has been used in Formula One racing for 10 years. CART has long allowed carbon fiber to be used in other parts of the car that had to provide crash protection, Walker said, and he noted that no one at CART ever went on record as saying a carbon-fiber chassis was unsafe. Two others with a vote on the board support Walker. ''I think what it really amounted to was Porsche did a little better homework,'' said Vince Granatelli, who has had a long-running disagreement with CART over restrictions on the engines his team uses. ''I think it was a political decision,'' said Steve Horne, who plans to build a similar car next year. ''Perhaps he obtained - not through a loophole, I think through a legitimate reading of the rule book - a potential advantage. And I think, with the new structure of CART, where everybody has their vote, he got outvoted.'' Horne added that carbon-fiber construction ''would improve the safety of the cars.'' Walker's team started building the car while the crash-test data were still being compiled and before CART had ever issued any approval. That, according to comments by another car owner, Chip Ganassi, may have set off an alarm with the board. Advertisement ''I won't tell you how I voted,'' Ganassi said, ''but my feeling was that the reason it got voted down was the way they went about their procedure on the interpretation of the rules. It was sort of secretive, if you will.'' Dale Coyne, another board member, also refused to say how he voted on the issue. ''I had a lot of mixed feelings about it,'' Coyne said. ''They went about it in the proper way to get it approved. Yet they knew it was something in a gray area.'' Coyne said that although any team had a right to be secretive about an innovation that a competitor could copy, the innovation in this instance was so drastic that the secrecy probably hurt its chances for approval. Penske said the Porsche team gave a presentation at the board meeting to show that the carbon-fiber chassis would be a safety improvement. ''I said, 'If it was a safety-related issue, why wouldn't you bring it up publicly?' '' Penske said, alluding to Porsche's previous secrecy on its plans. ''Why keep it underground?'' ''There's no question, when you read the rules, they took a risk they shouldn't have,'' Penske said. He said Walker shouldn't use the chassis disallowal as an excuse for the problems with the rebuilt chassis. ''They've had the car at Phoenix and they tested it,'' Penske said. ''I would be hard-pressed to say that the difference between carbon fiber and aluminum was the reason for the problems they've had.'' Walker said he might have made more of a fuss if he weren't chairman of CART's rules committee, which he thinks puts him in an awkward position. And the redesigned chassis, he believes, still incorporates enough innovations from the carbon-fiber version to eventually make it a winner. Advertisement ''It's not going to help our program bellowing to everybody about how bad off we are because we didn't get the carbon-fiber chassis,'' Walker said. ''I think it's more important for the future that CART does not do that indiscriminately, because that does send a very bad signal to the people in the business.'' It was suggested to John Capels, CART's president and chief operating officer, that at best, an outsider might view the matter as a bad job of communication, and at worst as a group of owners ganging up on a competitor. ''I wouldn't agree with you on that,'' Capels said of the latter suggestion. ''I will agree with you on one thing. I think that CART and its participants and its constructors need to have a much tighter loop in communications with each other. And this may bring that about in the future.'' Walker and his team should be getting some good news, though. In February, the team lost its major sponsor, but the company placed newspaper ads looking for a new sponsor. Bob Carlson, a spokesman for Porsche Motorsport, said it received calls from a variety of companies. A news conference has been scheduled for Wednesday in New York, at which time the name of a new sponsor is expected to be announced. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 30, 1990, on Page C00009 of the National edition with the headline: A Disallowed Chassis Stalling Porsche Indy Team.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »