Advertisement 

 Marc Tracy
 
 
ON COLLEGE FOOTBALL
JULY 19, 2014
 HOOVER, Ala. — Harrison Flick, 21, stood in a hotel lobby in this strip-mall suburb, wearing a Mississippi State football jersey. He was stoic about being the only Bulldogs fan in a sparse crowd Tuesday, the second morning of the Southeastern Conference’s media days. “It’s hard,” he said. “I’ve learned to deal with it over the years.” The scene in the same hotel two days later could not have been more different. About 100 fans clogged the lobby. A few supported Georgia, one was the aunt of a Kentucky player and the rest were there for Alabama. “Roll, Tide!” they shouted, rolling the vowel in “roll.” When Alabama Coach Nick Saban strolled in, surrounded by a dozen cameras and three times as many reporters and hangers-on, the crowd went berserk. As Saban sat for a brief radio interview, a Tuscaloosa News photographer kept jogging up one adjacent escalator and riding down the other one, snapping pictures of Saban, who has led teams to four Bowl Championship Series titles. “We’re here every year,” said Shane Bickel, 38, an Alabama fan. Compared with past years, he said, “this is tame.” Advertisement The 30th edition of the SEC media days was the first to run four days, to accommodate the conference’s expansion to 14 teams from 12 in 2012. It began earlier in July than ever before, too, six weeks before the season. Advertisement “They have a lot of chutzpah to start this when they do,” said Paul Finebaum, whose daily show is must-listen radio for many in the South. But SEC football is all about chutzpah. Commissioner Michael Slive, in his opening address, paraphrased Muhammad Ali when he said, “It’s not bragging if you can back it up.” SEC teams had won seven consecutive B.C.S. titles before Auburn lost the championship game to Florida State in January. The SEC led all conferences in attendance for the 16th straight year, it said. Next month, it will start the SEC Network in partnership with ESPN; on Friday, ESPN said it had struck a deal with Comcast that would make the channel available in 46 million households. College football, by some measures, trails only the N.F.L. in popularity among sports fans. This season, it will begin a four-team playoff format that many fans have desired for years. In his annual opening address, Slive acknowledged, in reference to the debate over the amateur model, that “we are not deaf to the din of discontent across collegiate athletics.” But at the media days, nearly all the din concerned the game. Ostensibly a gathering of insiders to help journalists gear up for the season, SEC media days have become a free-for-all for fans. They flew from Australia — or at least Anthony Hands of Tamworth, north of Sydney, did. They drove from Huntsville, Ala. They came because their children wanted to go. They brought photographs to be signed for their friends. “The cheapest birthday present ever,” Bickel said. Or they stayed home and consumed the copious programming on ESPNU, local news stations and the 20 or so call-in radio shows that lined up at the event to debate minutiae like the new national championship trophy (“They should keep the crystal football — it’s iconic”) with listeners in St. Louis and Memphis; College Station, Tex., and Baton Rouge, La.; Jackson, Miss., and Jacksonville, Fla. Not bad for what South Carolina Coach Steve Spurrier labeled “talking season.” (Spurrier gladly indulged the spirit of the season, musing on his two losing years as an N.F.L. coach, “Later you found out that was not a real good idea.”) Advertisement Up the escalators from the lobby, more than 1,200 credentialed journalists as well as team officials, conference officials and bowl officials mingled. The head coach and a few players from each team met the news media in three rooms, as well as in smaller rooms with contractual networks like CBS, ESPN and Fox Sports South. They also sometimes appeared on one of two ESPN sets at opposite ends of the floor. Auburn Coach Gus Malzahn had two state troopers as escorts; they even waited for him outside the men’s room. When a reporter suggested it might be awkward for a Crimson Tide fan to serve and protect the coach of Alabama’s archrival, one of the officers wordlessly made it quite clear that he was not an Alabama fan.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The coaches and the players heard many of the same questions in different rooms and gave many of the same answers. Texas A&M Coach Kevin Sumlin was asked whether he had recently chatted with his former quarterback Johnny Manziel about Manziel’s partying ways. “That’s a great question about the Cleveland Browns,” Sumlin replied. There was a sense that some air had been let out of the tires. For the first time in eight years, the SEC media days did not feature the defending national champion. Nor was there a star player for everyone to clamor for; last year Manziel appeared before retreating to a nearby Full Moon BBQ. The conference’s most prominent quarterback this season, Auburn’s Nick Marshall, recently received a citation after being accused of possessing a small amount of marijuana, and Malzahn pulled him from the schedule. Jennifer Brown, 36, said she and her husband had tried to explain to their three disappointed children why Marshall did not show up. “We told them what we could, to their level,” she said. “They need to know: If you mess up, you don’t play.” But one pundit on ESPN Arkansas 95.3 FM had a different view. He observed that a possible suspension for Marshall would not be such a bad thing for the Razorbacks, who open the season against Auburn. Five years ago, the Alabama journalist Brett Beaird said, he could realistically hope to interview eight coaches on his radio show over the course of the week. Advertisement “Now,” he said, “we’ll be lucky if we get two.” By the close on Thursday afternoon, he had secured none. There were a few quiet moments as well. On Thursday, Bradlee Helton, 14, a talkative Alabama fan, held a small plastic Georgia helmet. He said his older half brother, Matt Freeze, had moved to Alabama from Georgia and had grown up in Helton’s Crimson Tide household. Freeze had become a Georgia fan, Helton said, “to become his own man.” “We have a rivalry, and we’ll give each other a hard time,” Helton said. But he wanted Georgia players and Coach Mark Richt to sign the helmet for Freeze, who had been supportive when Helton’s grandfather died. “He’s done so much for me,” Helton added. By midafternoon Thursday, as the journalists and fans began to depart, high school players were arriving for a national seven-on-seven tournament, a tackle-free football competition. Some of them said they hoped to return to Hoover in a few years under different circumstances. A version of this article appears in print on July 20, 2014, on Page SP8 of the New York edition with the headline: Midsummer Event, Midseason Form for SEC Fans.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »