Advertisement  ROBERT McG. THOMAS Jr. Week Eight The National Football League's only undefeated team gets a minor test on Sunday when the Dolphins (6-0) play the Colts (3-3) in Miami. The surprise Vikings, leaders of the N.F.C. Central, put their 5-1 record on the line against the resurgent Redskins (4-2) at home. The surprising Steelers, co-leaders with the Oilers of the A.F.C. Central, take their 4-2 record to Kansas City to meet the 4-3 Chiefs. In the schedule's unkindest cut, the 1-5 Jets, who were out of harm's way with a bye last weekend, will be required to take the field again, this time against the Bills (4-2) Monday night. San Diego Chargers The 34-14 victory over the Colts has cost the Chargers an arm and a leg. The team's leading runner, Rod Bernstine, who rushed for a career-high 150 yards with two touchdowns on 23 carries against Indianpolis, will be out for at least six weeks after undergoing shoulder surgery The team's top defensive player, end Leslie O'Neal, who leads the team with five sacks, is expected to miss at least one game after knee surgery yesterday. Rookie Chris Mimms is expected to start in his place against the Broncos on Sunday. Advertisement Bernstine, who may be out for the season, got a get-well card of sorts yesterday. He was named the American Conference offensive player of the week. Philadelphia Eagles Advertisement Losing to the Redskins was bad enough. Losing Andre Waters could be worse for the Eagles. The strong safety, who led the team in tackles for four of the last eight seasons, broke his left leg in the Washington game and will be out for most of the season. Waters is giving his recovery the same dedication he shows on the field. After being told that he could let the leg heal naturally and miss the entire season or that he could have screws inserted surgically and possibly return for the last few games, he chose the surgery.  Denver Broncos Ruben Rodriguez, a free-agent punter, was signed yesterday to replace Mike Horan, who is out for the season. Broncos trainer Steve Antonopulos said it appeared that Horan, who tore a knee ligament against Houston last Sunday, will require reconstructive knee surgery.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Coach Dan Reeves, who is in the final year of his contract, denied a report on ESPN that he might be coaching the Phoenix Cardinals next season. "There's no truth to it whatsoever," Reeves said. Los Angeles Raiders Quarterback Todd Marinovich has recovered from his sprained left knee and is expected to start Sunday against the Dallas Cowboys. The Cowboys (5-1) lead the National Conference East and the Raiders (3-4) have won three consecutive games. Their defense has allowed 13 points and just a field goal in its last 10 quarters. Defensive lineman Anthony Smith, who had four sacks and forced two fumbles against the Seahawks last Sunday, was named defensive player of the week in the American Conference. Green Bay Packers Brett Favre will start at quarterback against the Chicago Bears on Sunday, although Coach Mike Holmgren told reporters he has not decided whether he will be the starter for the rest of the season. Quarterback Don Majkowski, however, said Holmgren indicated that Favre would start for the remainder of the season. "A decision was made," Majkowski said. "I'm going to accept it for now and just work as hard as I can." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 22, 1992, on Page B00018 of the National edition with the headline: Midweek Report.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »