Advertisement  For the second straight Sunday, Drew Bledsoe had a marvelous day. He finished 26 for 42 for 380 yards to 7 different receivers, with 3 touchdowns and 2 interceptions. For the second straight Sunday, the Patriots scored 35 points. And yet, they are 0-2. Facing a fourth down from the Buffalo 39-yard line with no timeouts remaining and just seconds left in the game, clock, Bledsoe couldn't pull off a play to stop the clock in time for a tying field goal attempt. Bledsoe, who took the snap with 6 seconds left, rushed 3 yards for the first down, but the clock ran out and the Bills survived for a 38-35 victory after leading by 28-14 at halftime. "What I should have done was call a quick pass play to get the first down and get the guy out of bounds," said Bledsoe, the second-year quarterback who had led the Patriots downfield after getting the ball at his 27-yard line with 46 seconds left and no timeouts. Not Parcells's Style Advertisement "We got ourselves in a hole and we were forced to play a way you don't like to play," Coach Bill Parcells said. "You have to take chances and when you have to take chances, bad things happen. I don't want to play helter skelter. I don't know if they're listening, but they better, or this season is going down the tubes." Advertisement Russell Copeland's 32-yard kickoff return started Buffalo's winning drive, then the Bills moved from their 43 to the New England 14 before Steve Christie kicked the game-winning 32-yard field goal with 56 second left. The Bills were much more effective in the first half. With Glenn Parker shifted from left guard, where he lined up in last week's loss to the Jets, to right tackle in today's shuffled lineup, Jim Kelly had enough time to throw four first-half touchdown passes and plowed holes large enough for Thurman Thomas to rush for 106 yards. Buffalo scored on four drives of 80, 89, 80 and 78 yards. Momentum Switches "That's the way we wanted to come out, fast-paced, get up early," said Kelly, who finished 25 of 41 for 328 yards, with 4 touchdowns and 3 interceptions. "Without a doubt, the key in the first half was the time I had to throw the football."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. After halftime, however, the Patriots were able to stifle the Buffalo offense until the final field goal. The Bills got their only touchdown of the half when Bruce Smith and Mickey Washington nailed Bledsoe just inside his own end zone and he lost the ball. Mike Lodish fell on it for the score and a 35-21 Bills lead. But New England pulled even when two fourth-quarter interceptions of Kelly set up a 12-yard touchdown catch by Michael Timpson and a 6-yard scoring run by Marion Butts. The Patriots' ground game was effective in spurts, but playing catch-up, it was the passing game that opened up the run, not the other way around. Bledsoe threw most often to the reliable Ben Coates, who pulled in 9 passes for 124 yards and 2 of the scores. On the second, he was covered by Marvcus Patton in the right side of the end zone. Still he reached around Patton to get his hands on a soft 5-yard pass from Bledsoe, then snatched the juggling ball out of the air while tiptoeing inside the line to cut Buffalo's lead to 21-14 in the second quarter. It wasn't enough, though, and Parcells was left to ponder his teams' defensive struggles. "I am very disappointed with the way we are playing defense," he said. "We played good in the second half, but we did not play good enough. We let them drive down for the winning field goal. We are not consistent at all in any phase defensively." Bills Coach Levy said he expected his big names to play better this week than they did in their 23-3 loss to the Jets, and they did. It was clear after the game that the four-time defending American Football Conference champions weren't going to be offering concession speeches any time soon. Advertisement "We're still alive," Thomas said. "Everyone counted us out, said we were done, on the decline. We're still the team to beat." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 12, 1994, on Page C00008 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL; Pats Get The Points But Not A Victory.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »