Advertisement By PHIL BERGER and  Bob Lee, the president of the International Boxing Federation, invoked his Fifth Amendment rights before a Senate hearing today and refused to answer questions about an accusation that he received a bribe in 1981 when he was a boxing official in New Jersey. Lee was called to testify before the Senate Permanent Subcomittee on Investigations, which is looking into charges of corruption in boxing. Earlier in the day, the subcommittee heard accusations that linked the promoter Don King to organized crime. Senator William Roth, Republican of Delaware, who presided over the hearings today, has introduced a bill to establish a Federal commission to work with the states and regulate the sport. On the final day of the two-day hearings, Lee was accused of being the conduit for, as well as the recipient of, bribes to insure that a promotional license would be granted in New Jersey. Outside the hearing room, Lee vehemently denied the accusation and said no criminal charges were ever brought. Advertisement Earlier in the hearing, New York State Inspector General Joseph Spinelli presented audio and video tape exhibits from an undercover operation run by the F.B.I. that dated to 1980 and was known as Crown Royal. Advertisement In the tape, the Rev. Al Sharpton and a reputed member of a New York crime family, Danny Pagano, are shown discussing strategy on approaching King for a co-promotion with an undercover agent who claimed he was a former drug-dealer seeking to launder several million dollars. On the tape, Sharpton tells the agent that he would get a "fair deal" from King by associating himself with an individual of Pagano's connections. At another point, Pagano speaks about a young heavyweight fighter whom he is considering becoming involved with. Sharpton recommends that Pagano and the heavyweight become involved with King, because "Don's got the influence with the ratings and everything." Law-enforcement officials have cited a similar encounter in 1983 between Sharpton and organized-crime figures as the crucial point in his becoming an informant for the F.B.I. Sharpton has admitted helping in drug and organized-crime investigations. He could not be reached for comment today. 'Drug Dealers' A cooperative witness at today's hearing identified only as Bobby said he and an undercover agent represented themselves as drug dealers seeking to launder money through boxing. This guise was meant to enable them to penetrate the inner workings of the boxing world. Bobby, who testified from behind an opaque glass screen and acknowledged that he was serving time in prison on a drug charge, said that he approached Lee when Lee was the deputy to the New Jersey boxing commissioner Joe Walcott, a former heavyweight champion. "Initially, Lee advised me that the New Jersey Commission has a two-year residency requirement for application," Bobby said in a statement. "Later, he added that he would need two or three thousand dollars to get us a license. Finally, on Dec. 19, 1981, after months of trying to get together with Lee, I met with Lee in room 1926 of the Playboy Hotel in Atlantic City and gave him $3,000 in cash. Lee accepted the cash and said the money would be going to Joe Walcott." Walcott could not be reached for comment. Later, under questioning by Roth, Bobby said that he had given an additional thousand dollars to Lee. Roth then noted that Lee had earlier told investigators from the subcomittee that the money was given as a contribution for his failed attempt to win election as president of the World Boxing Association. Bobby denied giving the money as a contribution.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Just before Bobby testified, the hearing room was cleared so that he could be seated without spectators seeing his face. As testimony continued, Lee and his attorney, Carl Rowan Jr., were in the corridor outside the room criticizing the tactics of the subcomittee. Advertisement "I find the conduct of the Senate is shameful," said Rowan. "If the evidence is so compelling where are the charges?" Lee said he appeared before a Federal grand jury in New Jersey in the early 1980's and was not indicted. "It's great theater," said Rowan. "Maybe it'll convince a few members in Congress that the Federal government needs to regulate boxing. If they're relying on ancient history to make a case, they haven't made a case." When Lee was called to testify, Rowan told the subcomittee, he had advised Lee "under no circumstances should he answer any question and that he should invoke his rights under the Fifth Ammendment." Lee responded to a series of questions by invoking the Fifth Ammendment. Earlier in the day, the subcomittee heard from Michael Franzese, who described himself as a former capo in the Colombo crime family. He gave testimony that implied that King not only had past dealings with organized crime figures but had also discussed a co-promotional deal in the Crown Royal operation with the knowledge that the intention was to launder $3 million in drug money. King Also Took Fifth Last month, when King gave a deposition to the committee, he also invoked Fifth Amendment rights and refused to answer questions. Franzese, who is serving a prison sentence for violating the terms of his parole, said his meeting with King took place on Jan. 12, 1983 at King's Manhattan office. "I explained that they would invest the money and expect a 50 percent split with him, and that I, in turn, would receive a 50 percent split of their end," Franzese said. "I informed him that I had touched base with the Cleveland family on the transaction and he was aware of that." In his statement and under questioning, Franzese made several references to fixed fights, contending that he had inside information on Larry Holmes's 1982 title defense against Gerry Cooney. But when Senator William Cohen, Republican of Maine, expressed skepticism about the fixes, Franzese seemed to back off. For instance, on the Holmes-Cooney bout, he ended up saying, "I'm not suggesting Cooney took a dive. He knew he couldn't win and passed that information on." Cooney was stopped in the 11th round of the bout. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 13, 1992, on Page B00014 of the National edition with the headline: BOXING; I.B.F. President Refuses to Answer Senators' Queries.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »