Advertisement By WILLIAM N. WALLACE Presumption is a dangerous quality in college football when November rolls around. The underdogs slink out of the weeds and take bites in the most surprising places. Ames, Iowa, was one of those places on Saturday when Iowa State, a modest team that had won only three games, took down mighty Nebraska. The fans also took down the goal posts at Cyclone-Jack Trice Field after the 19-10 victory over the Cornhuskers, which put a different look on the post-season bowl games. "We probably overlooked Iowa State," said Nebraska safety Tyrone Byrd. "We weren't mentally prepared." The Orange Bowl also lost out because the chance of matching mighty Miami with the bowl's host team, the Big Eight champion, dimmed considerably. In turn, the Sugar and Fiesta Bowl's prospects for a national championship game became more realistic. Advertisement The eventual Big Eight champion -- most likely Nebraska or Colorado -- may not even be ranked in the top 10, and the Hurricanes want to play the highest-ranked team available to enhance their national-championship claims. Neither Colorado (ranked No. 11) nor Nebraska (12) was in the top 10 by The Associated Press poll released yesterday. Advertisement Miami, however, has some serious business ahead on Saturday, a visit to Syracuse, which was impressive again in defeating Boston College, 27-10, on Saturday.  Miami Remains No.  1 Following its 48-0 rout of Temple, Miami remained No. 1 in The Associated Press poll announced yesterday. In The New York Times computer ranking last week, Miami was No. 2 and Nebraska No. 1. The new computer ranking will be released tomorrow. Alabama, which struggled some in defeating Mississippi State, 30-21, held on to No. 2 in the A.P. poll. If it wins the Southeastern Conference championship game, Alabama will be the host team in the Sugar Bowl, and a match with Miami would have the trappings of a national championship game.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Should Alabama stumble against Auburn or in the S.E.C. title game on Dec. 5 against probably Florida or Georgia, then Florida State could become a key player in the bowl kaleidoscope. The Seminoles, after routing Tulane, 70-7, rose to No. 3 in the A.P. poll, which will key many of the bowl pairings under the new alliance arrangement. The Fiesta Bowl, which has no ties to a conference, would be in position to match the Seminoles against the Hurricanes in a true national championship game if Florida State were ranked No. 2 and Miami No. 1. Miami edged Florida State, 19-16, earlier this season. Notre Dame, No. 7 in the A.P. poll following its dramatic last-minute victory over Penn State, has a lot of bowl options, too, as does Syracuse, now No. 8. One obvious option for the Irish, if they defeat Southern California in their next game on Nov. 28, is to meet so-far unbeaten Texas A&M, the likely Southwest Conference champion, in the Cotton Bowl. Advertisement The Rose Bowl, which a month ago envisioned a possible national championship match between Michigan and Washington, then No. 3 and No.  1, respectively, is now just another game. The Wolverines, fortunate to tie another November underdog, Illinois by 22-22, went down from No. 3 to No. 6, while Washington climbed from No. 6 to No. 5 in the A.P. poll. San Diego State's Marshall Faulk revived his sagging candidacy for the Heisman Trophy with a sterling performance as the Aztecs beat Hawaii, 52-28. Faulk gained 300 yards on 43 carries and scored four touchdowns. Gino Toretta, the Miami quarterback, did not hurt his cause with 221 passing yards and two touchdowns in little more than half a game. The foremost hero, however, was no Heisman candidate but a fifth- year senior starting his first game. That was the Iowa State quarterback, Marv Seiler, who ran the option play 24 times through the startled Nebraska defense for 144 rushing yards. Included was one run of 78 yards that set up the Cyclones' only touchdown. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 16, 1992, on Page C00009 of the National edition with the headline: COLLEGE FOOTBALL; Orane Bowl Loses, Too, Because of Upset.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »