Advertisement By LARRY DORMAN and  Auburn did it again. Against all odds, against prevailing wisdom and against the top-ranked college football team in the nation, the Auburn Tigers pulled off another stunning victory today. In one of the biggest upsets of the college season, Auburn scored with just 30 seconds left in the game to defeat the University of Florida, 36-33. It happened a chilly, gray day at the Swamp, where Florida (ranked No. 1 by The Associated Press and CNN/USA Today and seventh by The New York Times computer) had not lost to a Southeastern Conference opponent since Steve Spurrier became the coach here five years ago. Auburn -- which came into the game as 16-point underdogs and ranked No. 6 by the Associated Press (and No. 12 by The Times) -- forced Florida into six turnovers. The Tigers turned the last one, an interception of a ball that never should have been thrown, into the winning touchdown in front of a record Ben Hill Griffin Stadium crowd of 85,562. "They just don't give up, do they?" said a disappointed and surprised Spurrier, who watched Coach Terry Bowden's Auburn team, 7-0, run its undefeated streak to 18 straight games, the longest winning streak in the nation. Auburn just kept coming at Florida, opening a 10-point lead in the first quarter, then fighting back three times to regain the lead. The Tigers refused to cave in. Even when Florida appeared to have the game won after it went ahead 33-29 with 5 minutes 51 seconds left in the fourth quarter on Danny Wuerffel's 28-yard touchdown pass to Jack Jackson -- who scored three times for the Gators -- Auburn believed it could win. Advertisement "No doubt," said Auburn free safety Brian Robinson. "We just needed to make something happen one more time." Advertisement The Auburn defense has habitually made things happen during this magical run. Against L.S.U. four games ago, the Tigers were down, 23-9, in the fourth quarter before returning three interceptions for touchdowns. Wuerffel came in for an ineffective Terry Dean and led Florida to three touchdowns in the second half, but then he, too, tasted Auburn's opportunism. Inexplicably, on third and 15 from the Gator 29, Wuerffel tried to go deep down the middle. The pass was intercepted by Robinson, his third interception of the game. How could Florida try the play, with just 1:20 left in the game, when a running play would have kept the clock running or at least forced Auburn to use one of its two remaining timeouts? "Danny got the wrong signal," Spurrier said. "We were not trying to lob it down the middle again, I can assure you. That is bad coaching, just poor coaching. We were trying to throw a corner route, but for some reason we lobbed it down there." For whatever reason, Auburn was in business again at its 45. Nix, who completed 28 of 51 passes for 319 yards and three touchdowns, could sense it. "If we just executed and didn't panic, I thought we'd be able to move the ball," he said. There is something about this Auburn team. Call it charmed, call it blessed, but don't call it lucky anymore. The final drive took care of that aspersion, one opponents have frequently cast Auburn's way. The Tigers might be on probation, and they are precluded from a bowl appearance, and any mention in the CNN poll, in this final year of sanctions, but they definitely are the genuine item. And never was it more evident than on that final fateful march through the heart of the Swamp. Nix began it all with a 13-yard completion to Frank Sanders, the big-play wide receiver from Fort Lauderdale, who had five catches for 65 yards on the day. In the week leading up to game, Sanders, 6 feet 2 inches and 200 pounds, said he hoped it came down to the final minutes.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "That's when I love playing," he said. "When it's all on the line." Nix couldn't hit Sanders on a corner route on the next play, and his second-down attempt for Willie Gosha bounced off Gosha's shoulder pads. Auburn called timeout with 57 seconds left. With one timeout remaining, Nix hit Sanders at the Florida 35, but Sanders dropped the ball. Auburn called its last timeout. Fourth down, 10 yards to go. The denizens of the Swamp were in full cry. This was the largest crowd ever to witness a game, pro or college, in the state, and the din was enormous. Nix took the snap in the shotgun, looked off Sanders and fired a line drive to Bailey at the Florida 28. Advertisement "I didn't ever think we couldn't do it," Nix said. First down. Bailey got out of bounds to stop the clock with 41 seconds left. Nix was on another plane now. He fired to Gosha for 20 yards to the Florida 8. The clock was down to 36 seconds, and the Gators were reeling, their backs to the hedges that separate the end zone stands from the field. Nix looked at the Gator defensive alignment and did a double take. "We knew we were going to score," he said. "We couldn't believe the alignment they were in. They had No. 35 one-on-one on Sanders. No contest." Sanders came off the line and ran a corner route. He had established position in front of Gator defender Michael Gilmore, No. 35. Nix put the ball right into his stomach and Sanders fell into a heap, cradling the ball and the victory in the left corner of the end zone. "It's sweet to come to Florida and win like this," Sanders said. "Sweet. Maybe everybody will stop talking about us being lucky." Maybe. Certainly, the proof was right there. Auburn not only had beaten an S.E.C. opponent on the road, it had beaten the No. 1 team for the first time since 1932, when it beat Georgia, 27-13. "There were so many people who told us we couldn't win down here," said tight end Andy Fuller, who caught more passes today (seven) than he had in his previous three years at Auburn (six). "Maybe now they'll believe." Bowden does. "Everybody said they were the legitimate No. 1 team in the country," Bowden said. "You ask me should we be No. 1? I say yes." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 16, 1994, on Page 8008001 of the National edition with the headline: COLLEGE FOOTBALL; Defying the Odds, Auburn Knocks Florida Off Its Perch.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »