Advertisement By CLIFTON BROWN and  It has become much clearer recently why the Knicks tried to acquire Danny Manning. The Knicks need to find more offense. And now that the trade deadline has passed, their only option is to find a more effective way to use the personnel they have. New York (36-18) has lost three consecutive games and seven of its last 11. Coach Pat Riley has been angry after several losses, criticizing the Knicks for lacking aggressiveness, lacking concentration or lacking effort in defensive transition. What about the lack of Knicks shots going into the basket? It is difficult to find fault with New York's defense. Check the statistics. The Knicks have the top-ranked defense in the National Basketball Association heading into Sunday's game against the Phoenix Suns. New York has allowed just 91.9 points per game, and its opponents have shot just 43.4 percent. Both marks are the best in the league. But the Knicks' offense has been abysmal recently. They have been held to fewer than 100 points in five of their last six games. And in four of those games, the Knicks couldn't even reach 90 points. New York ranks in the league's bottom third offensively, averaging 98.1 points. Advertisement More effort does not always translate into more points. The Knicks have played hard. But lately, they haven't played well, particularly at the offensive end. Advertisement Can the Knicks find an answer? And how long will it take? With four championships as a coach and 680 victories in the league, Riley knows more about winning than most coaches ever will. But after Thursday's loss in Houston, Riley looked at the assembled reporters, smiled and asked, "Any suggestions?" Riley was joking. But since he asked, the temptation to give Riley some advice is too strong to resist. First, it may be time for Riley to become a little more flexible with the Knicks' personnel. New York is fortunate to have depth that most teams don't. Why not use more of it, especially with the team on a slide? Riley thought about changing the starting lineup after Thursday's 93-73 loss to Houston. But he decided to stand pat, and the Knicks lost again Friday night, 102-94, to the Denver Nuggets. Changing the starting lineup is still an option. But that may not be as important as finding the right offensive mix each night. To do that, it appears New York will have to explore different ways to find a more balanced attack that produces shots for a greater variety of players, particularly potential scorers like Charles Smith, Derek Harper, Hubert Davis and Anthony Mason. Certainly, playing 10 or 11 players every night can disrupt a team's fluidity. But Rolando Blackman, Anthony Bonner and Herb Williams should not be forgotten on nights when the team struggles. Concentrating on Starks Patrick Ewing is the Knicks' lone offensive superstar, the one player who cannot be guarded successfully unless he is double-teamed. Even Ewing has awful nights occasionally, but he deserves at least 20 shots and 35 to 40 minutes every night. But does anyone else? John Starks has explosive scoring ability, but he can also be erratic. And because Starks has become such a focal point of New York's attack, opposing defenses have placed more emphasis on containing him.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Ewing and Starks have carried New York's offense to this point. But for the Knicks to win a championship, they need a consistent third scorer to emerge. It doesn't have to be the same person every game. One game it could be Smith. The next game it could be Harper, or Mason, or Davis. Just Seven Shots Advertisement Smith was supposed to be the third hub of the offense, but it hasn't happened yet. Smith bristled after Friday's loss, when asked if he felt he could develop into the third scorer the Knicks were looking for. Smith had 12 points against Denver, but he had only 7 field goal attempts, making 4 of them. "I'd love to be that third scorer, but I can't be that third scorer with seven shots -- period," said Smith. Riley may not like that response, especially considering the week Smith had. In a three-game span before Friday, Smith took 33 shots from the field, but he only took two foul shots. Opponents didn't foul Smith because he didn't take the ball to the basket, settling for jumpers, most of which he missed. That has been a teamwide problem for the Knicks. Opponents have shot more free throws in each of New York's last three losses. The Knicks only took six fouls shots in the entire game Thursday against Houston. Must Go to the Basket All the Knicks, particularly low-post players like Ewing and Smith, should be more conscious of getting to the foul line and taking the ball strongly to the basket. The Knicks have shot poorly from outside, and teams consistently leave Greg Anthony open on the perimeter, daring him to beat them. But the poor shooting has been compounded by the Knicks' inability to create easy baskets. They are not a great running team, because they have too many players who lack ball-handling creativity in the open court. And they are not blessed with a superior penetrating point guard like Kenny Anderson, Kevin Johnson or John Stockton, who can create easy baskets for themselves and for teammates. The Knicks score most consistently when all five players are involved, when they establish a strong low-post game, and when their suffocating defense creates turnovers that lead to easier scoring opportunities. Defense often triggers New York's offense, and lately, the Knicks have shown symptoms of fatigue, not so much physically, but mentally. Playing New York has become a big game for every opponent. The Knicks have to meet that challenge every night. That can be draining on a team, particularly in mid-February, when games, travel and practices test a team's endurance. But at this point, the Knicks have no reason to believe they cannot win a championship. Their record is good, and it would surely be better if they had not suffered so many early-season injuries. In fact, the Knicks have the exact record (36-18) they had at this point last season. Best Record a Key But New York went 24-4 in its final 28 games last year to finish with 60 victories. Right now, the Knicks do not look like a team consistent enough to win 24 of its next 28. This slump has dropped them to third in the Eastern Conference, and Orlando has closed to within three games in the Atlantic Division. If the Knicks do not finish first in the East and secure the home-court advantage through the conference finals, their playoff journey will be difficult. The Knicks lost all three of their playoff games in Chicago last year. Atlanta has the best home record (24-3) in the league. And the Knicks are 0-3 in Orlando since Shaquille O'Neal joined the Magic. Advertisement The Knicks should forget about last year, and forget about others' expectations. There is no dominant team in the league this season, but any of the contenders can win a title, including the Knicks. They don't need Manning to do it. But somewhere, somehow, the Knicks need to find a little more offense. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this an analysis; news analysis appears in print on February 27, 1994, on Page 8008001 of the National edition with the headline: PRO BASKETBALL; Better Shots Mean a Shot For Knicks.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »