Advertisement By FILIP BONDY and  Autumn spills into the Shenandoah Valley, jumbling the mind and mood of Ralph Sampson, assistant coach. "It's the basketball smell," Sampson said. "When the weather changes like this, it's time to go away and play. Staying home is going to feel very strange." There is nowhere to go this fall for Sampson, who has nine seasons behind him in the National Basketball Association and a brief, unsatisfying playing stint in Malaga, Spain. He hopes there is a team, somewhere, with the unscratched itch for a 7-foot- 4-inch backup center on a rebuilt leg. He is only 32 years old, he is in decent shape above the kneecaps, and he is busy calling his agent, Mike Higgins, at ProServ. Nothing doing yet. Instead, Sampson is working for another basketball exile, Coach Lefty Driesell, as a $16,000-a-year, restricted-earnings assistant at James Madison University in Harrisonburg. His income is not the only thing that is restricted. Sampson cannot leave the campus to recruit, because that would be a violation of National Collegiate Athletic Association rules. He cannot watch the players practice for a few more weeks, or that would be another violation. A Pleasant Purgatory? Advertisement Sampson, the famous embodiment of Virginia athletics, sits behind his desk in a small office, and goes home to his parents' home for supper -- until his wife and three children rejoin him soon in a new dwelling. Harrisonburg is either a pleasant purgatory, or the final resting place for Sampson's aborted career. Advertisement "Comfortable or not, I feel like getting up and working out," Sampson said. "I won't stay here my whole life. This just makes it easier to learn the business." He has come full circle, with several unplotted half-twists. Sampson was born, raised, and idolized in Harrisonburg. His mom, dad, and two sisters remain four of the town's 19,671 residents. He went to high school, starred for the Harrisonburg Blue Streaks, just a couple of miles down the road from the James Madison Convocation Center. The town hasn't changed much. The firehouse is still hosting its ham-pot pie fundraiser. Jess's Quick Lunch on Main Street still serves a milk shake that can support the weight of any spoon. The soft drinks are still 50 cents out of the vending machines. A Good Career Nobody considers Sampson a failure here, or strings together words like, "unfulfilled potential." He was state high school champion for two years, one of only five black students in his graduating class. He was college player of the year for the University of Virginia. He reached the Final Four. He was an All-Star in the N.B.A. That is enough here. At the high school, Roger Bergey smiles and rolls his eyes at the memories. Bergey was Sampson's coach and adviser. He still coaches the high school team, and is now also athletic director. "It bothered me a lot when I heard people say that Ralph Sampson doesn't do this or that," Bergey said. "He was the hardest-working guy on our team. And let me tell you, he had the single greatest impact on high school athletics and state athletics in Virginia. Since he came, there's been a different outlook around here. A bigger, better outlook." The trophy case in the Claude E. Warren Field House sports Sampson's jersey, big No. 50 in blue. There is a list of accomplishments: He scored 1,669 points for the Blue Streaks, a school record. He had 1,299 rebounds, another record. He blocked 475 shots, a third mark. He scored 50 points in one game. Advertisement He had grown, and grown. From 6-7 as a freshman at Harrisburg, to 7-3 as a skinny senior. Bergey nicknamed him Sticks. "People packed in everywhere around the court to watch him play," Bergey said. "The most famous coaches scouted him, and they'd sit with his mother. The fans would look up to see who was watching Ralph tonight." The recruiting letters had come in waves, first for "Wayne Sampson," and sometimes for, "Ralph Bergey." By the time he announced he was attending Virginia at a crowded news conference in the high school gym, everybody knew the name. Ralph Sampson. The next greatest player in basketball. It never quite worked out that way, although the dream endured as late as 1986. Sampson buried a bomb at the buzzer that spring for the Houston Rockets to knock out the Lakers in the West and to qualify for the N.B.A. Finals. It seemed the Twin Towers experiment, with Hakeem Olajuwon at center and Sampson at roving forward, might really work. Then, the moment was gone. In the finals against the Celtics, Sampson scuffled with 6-1 Jerry Sichting. He was portrayed as a bully, a loser. "I was playing at my highest level then," Sampson said. "I had no idea the fans would react like that."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The next fall, Sampson suffered an ankle injury that led to the first of three knee injuries. Coach Bill Fitch lost patience with Sampson's playmaking mentality. "We needed a coach who would turn us loose, let go of the reins," Sampson said. "Somebody like Pat Riley. Nobody could deal with Hakeem and myself when we were on. We would have been the best team in the league, but the Houston organization couldn't get us a point guard." Finally, it did. Fitch traded Sampson to Golden State for Sleepy Floyd and Joe Barry Carroll, another alleged underachiever. Sampson had more knee problems, bought out his contract for millions of dollars two years after a trade to Sacramento in 1989, and played briefly with the Bullets. He still receives ample deferred payments from those past contracts, but the money will not make him a Hall of Famer. He could have been great. He was only good. Then, he was injured. Advertisement "Watching him play on television his last few years, it gave me an eerie feeling," Bergey said. "He was wearing a big brace, being pushed and shoved by smaller players. He had a little limp. That wasn't Ralph." If Sampson was considered too mobile, and not enough of an interior presence, then Bergey says he must share the blame. "We let him fill the outside lanes on the break," Bergey said. "He wasn't just a wooden Indian on the blocks. He could play with his back to the basket, facing the basket. I had a coach tell me, 'You're creating a monster.' He could run the floor, handle the ball, and maybe he was too good for his size." Now, Bergey wants to see Sampson give up playing and get on with his life. So does Driesell, the former Maryland coach who knows a good recruiting edge when he sees one. "I had one recruit already this month, his daddy nearly jumped out of his chair when I told him that Ralph Sampson was an assistant coach with me, working with the big men," Driesell said. "My way of thinking, Ralph's career is over," Driesell said. "He was in the Final Four. He was an N.B.A. All-Star. Why play when his knees hurt him? He has nothing more to prove as a player." Driesell claims he has nothing to prove, either, as a college coach. He has won more than 600 games, averaged more than 20 victories a season with Davidson, in Maryland, and James Madison. But there were big-tournament losses, big-time problems, and the Len Bias tragedy at Maryland. Driesell has taken his public lumps, probably more than Sampson. "Everybody takes hits," said Driesell, who tried unsuccessfully to recruit Sampson out of high school. "The President takes hits. If you do any good at all, it's going to happen." Advertisement Driesell wants to stay in Harrisonburg. His wife has bought a burial plot there. He says Sampson should relax, too. Stay put. Even Sampson's agent, Higgins, shares the vision: "People had expectations of me, but theirs weren't any higher than mine," Sampson said. "I'm a self-motivated person. I like to use the negative aspect of motivation to drive me. I use what people say to play harder." Kareem Robinson, a freshman power forward at James Madison, dropped in on Sampson at his office. The two men talked about mental preparation. "Don't let coaches push you," Sampson told Robinson. "You push yourself." Sampson is at James Madison, pushing himself, pushing papers across his desk, preparing himself for something, exactly what he is not certain. He works out with weights, and practices on the court. He says he used his truncated season last spring in Spain as a training camp, and that he now knows "what it takes to get back into the N.B.A." "I just wish I had one more year," Sampson said. In the meantime, he has a home in Harrisonburg. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 8, 1992, on Page B00033 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL; Sampson Goes Home To Get a Fresh Start.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »