Advertisement By MICHAEL MARTINEZ and  National Football League owners, hopeful of reaching a compromise with players over free agency, met for about six hours today behind closed doors to discuss significant issues in an effort to avoid a trial scheduled for June 15 in Minneapolis. Although the focus on a labor agreement at the owners' spring meetings pushed back talk about expansion, Sacramento and Oakland, Calif., were eliminated, leaving five cities -- Baltimore; Charlotte, N.C.; Jacksonville, Fla., Memphis and St. Louis -- still in contention for the two franchises. Owners have been slow to proceed with expansion plans until they determine whether they can come to a labor agreement with players. "It would be difficult for any expansion team to begin operations without knowing the situation on the labor agreement," said Lamar Hunt, the owner of the Kansas City Chiefs. Interest in Salary Cap Advertisement Harold Henderson, the league's executive vice president for labor, indicated that owners had expressed an interest in discussing a salary cap, one of the primary issues, as well as how much movement players would be allowed. Advertisement Asked if it was possible that owners could eventually settle the issue with players, Henderson said: "There's a chance. It could come before the trial, or it could come after the trial. But there's a chance."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Jerry Jones, the owner of the Dallas Cowboys, said: "We like the people we've got working on it, and that's on both sides. For the first time I think there's some optimism." 'Same Old Labor Situation' At a news briefing this afternoon Commissioner Paul Tagliabue sounded less optimistic. "It's the same old labor situation," he said. "We're continuing to try to resolve it through some type of settlement. If not, we'll be in court on June 15 defending the system we currently have." Freeman McNeil and seven other N.F.L. veteran players sued the league for free agency in April 1990. A victory by the players is likely to make all players unrestricted free agents, something the owners are hoping to avoid. The owners indicated they might call another meeting before the scheduled trial date in an effort to reach a settlement. Another area of discussion at the meeting was a proposal by Jim Finks, the president of the New Orleans Saints, that would limit teams to 50 players under contract, 40 of whom would be in uniform on game days. The rules now limit teams to 47 players on the roster and 45 players in uniform on game days. The proposal was discussed but no vote was taken. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 20, 1992, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: FOOTBALL; N.F.L. Owners Focus Attention on Labor Agreement.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »