Advertisement By JOSEPH DURSO and  The stately old Saratoga Race Course opened its 125th season today, and promptly lived up to its reputation as the house of upsets. It's the place where Man o' War and Secretariat and Affirmed all lost at the peak of their careers, where four jockeys were thrown from their mounts on opening day a year ago, and where a horse even fell and got wedged under the starting gate for 20 minutes. The misdeeds today weren't cosmic, but they also weren't comic. Nobody was injured, but two steeplechase riders were dumped going over jumps in the second race. Pat Day, a Hall of Fame rider with 7,000 victories, including this year's Kentucky Derby, was tossed from his horse coming out of the gate in the third race. Angel Cordero Jr., the king of Saratoga jockeys for 13 years, saddled his first horse here as a trainer and it ran 10th and last in the fourth race. And, wonder of wonders, Julie Krone, recently crowned as the leading jockey at Belmont Park, went 0 for 5 in her first day in Saratoga. Record Crowd But the old track in the foothills of the Adirondacks otherwise opened its five-week season with flourishes and a resplendent crowd of 25,065 who bet $2.9 million. It was the largest crowd for a July opening in the history of a track that used to run mainly in August, even a couple of hundred larger than the opener last year, when New York racing expanded its Saratoga sojourn from four weeks to five weeks and found that it thrived. A 2-year-old filly named Distinct Habit also thrived today, becoming the first stakes winner of a season that will glitter with 30 stakes worth $4.7 million in purses. Advertisement Distinct Habit also supplied the day's chief thrill when she survived late rushes by Tourney and Lily La Belle and won the $120,800 Schuylerville Stakes by a head. For 75 years, the race has provided a springboard for fillies acquiring credentials for the juvenile championship, and Distinct Habit acquired a few. She has been to the races three times and has won three times. Advertisement Jerry Bailey, who rode the filly in all three starts, said Distinct Habit started to drift out on the final turn and then found her lane and kicked for home, but sooner than he wanted. "My reins were slick from the rain," Bailey said, "and I couldn't hold her in. So, she made her move earlier than I wanted, and that almost cost her in the end. Fortunately, when I let her go, she did straighten out."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Distinct Habit, who is owned by the Triumviri Stable and trained by Stanley Hough, sprinted the six furlongs in 1:11 flat, paid $5.20 for $2 to win and brought home $72,480. Mile Races Return For the last 22 years, Saratoga has omitted any one-mile races. The reason involved configuration: The track is a mile and one-eighth long, and any one-mile race would have to be started on the first turn. The problem was solved by widening the first turn so that the starting gate could be placed on the far outside of the track, aiming the horses across the curve of the turn in something resembling a straightaway. But the configuration still seemed strange. As Krone was prancing Flawless Stone to the gate for the fifth race, the first at a mile since 1972, she looked into the box seats and spied Scotty Schulhofer and Tommy Valando, who employ her to ride Fly So Free and other stars. She nodded toward the gate, patted the No. 5 and shrugged. She was fifth in a field of five, and she was saying, in effect: "I start in right field." She also closed in right field, as the 4-year-old campaigner Richman held on to edge Barry K. Schwartz's Killer Diller. The victory was the second of the opening day for trainer Bill Mott, and he soon followed it with another in the sixth race. FINISH LINES In an effort to clear the confusion over Florida's gambling laws, Gov. LAWTON CHILES met at Tallahassee with JAMES E. BASSETT 3d , chairman of the Breeders' Cup, and gave new assurances that the state's legislative impasse would not cancel the cup races. They are still scheduled for Gulfstream Park on Oct. 31, but cup officials have been warning Florida that a change to New York was possible unless the state extended its parimutuel laws, which expired July 1. On Tuesday, the New York State Legislature gave the green light to holding the Breeders' Cup -- probably at Belmont Park -- if Florida doesn't run it. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 30, 1992, on Page B00016 of the National edition with the headline: HORSE RACING; Saratoga Opens With Slew of Surprises.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »