Advertisement  Croquet, once exclusively a sport of the privileged, still requires all-white outfits. But it has begun to attract an occasional blue-collar player. A United States Croquet Association survey of the association's 5,000 members shows that one in four is a millionaire, and one in four drives a Mercedes-Benz, Jaguar, Cadillac or BMW. But 5 percent drive Volkswagens. And last year's top-ranked player was a machinist. ''It's just in the last couple of years that croquet has been available to people who don't belong to country clubs or have private courts,'' said Peyton Ballenger, a top American player. Ballenger, one of croquet's few club pros in the United States, works at the PGA Sheraton Resort, headquarters of the croquet association. Advertisement The resort's five courts will be the site this week of the association's National Instructional School, the largest croquet school in the world. Fifty students at all levels of ability will be taught by some of the world's best players. Advertisement The playing field, covered with grass that resembles a golf green, is slightly larger than a basketball court. And golfers often cross over to croquet, Ballenger said. Tennis players usually don't.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ''It tends to be a little slow for their taste,'' she said. Croquet is growing. Association membership has increased from 5 clubs in 1977 to more than 300 this year. Clubs can be found in such middle-class places as Arkadelphia, Ark.; Rockford, Ill.; Lewisburg, W. Va., and Keokuk, Iowa. The backyard game is only a distant relative of the croquet played here, where the wickets are narrower, the mallets are heavier, the rulebook thicker and tempers shorter. ''You'll occasionally see a mallet fly through the air,'' Ballenger said.(AP) We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 15, 1990, on Page 8008001 of the National edition with the headline: Blue Collars Amid White.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »