Advertisement By PHIL BERGER and  All week the billboards around this desert city promoted the notion of a slam-bang fight between Terry Norris and Simon Brown. The idea was advanced through a photo of a fighter shown from the chest down, lying horizontal on the canvas, with this notation: "Look What's Going Down September 26." The subtext here was that when punchers as heavy handed as Norris, the 26-year-old World Boxing Council superwelterweight champion, and Brown, the 29-year-old challenger, started beating up on each other, something had to give. A Drama of Inaction Well, the ballyhooed action fight ended up being a drama of inaction. Just hours before the two men were to climb into the indoor ring at Caesars Palace -- and even as fans were being shown to their seats -- the bout was abruptly canceled. Brown, it turned out, was grounded for medical reasons. Advertisement "Inflammation of the inner ear" was the diagnosis that was reported by Edwin (Flip) Homanski, chairman of the medical advisory board of the Nevada Athletic Commission. But there were also reports of earlier problems having to do with Brown's heart. Advertisement The unlikely scenario began to unfold Saturday morning when Brown awoke and complained of dizziness and chest pains. By early afternoon, he was in the emergency room at Valley Hospital Medical Center. There, he was examined by Dr. Anthony Frederick and run through a series of tests. Homanski, who was summoned to the hospital, said the test results were all normal. Brown told doctors that the room would spin on him when he stood, but Homanski said that the vertigo the fighter described -- apparently a symptom of inner-ear inflammation -- could not be proved or disproved by the tests. Norris's manager, Joe Sayatovich, had a layman's opinion that was rooted in suspicion. He said that Brown had suffered an anxiety attack from fear of Norris, and when asked for substantiation, he said that this was what Homanski had told him. Homanski later denied saying that. The result was costly to both fighters, who kept $50,000 apiece in training expenses but lost the chance to earn their purses: $1 million for Norris, $230,0000 for Brown.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Norris is likely to fight again before the end of 1992. This morning, Sayatovich said that the target date for Norris's next bout was Dec. 5, and that the opponent might be John David Jackson, the World Boxing Organization junior middleweight champion. "I can tell you this," said Sayatovich, "it won't be Simon Brown." Indeed, Brown's future is clouded. Brown's adviser, a lawyer named James Cooks, revealed to the Home Box Office interviewer, Larry Merchant, that last Monday, when Brown complained of chest pains, he was taken to a clinic here and examined. Cooks said an electrocardiogram was run on Brown and the findings revealed a "somewhat strange heartbeat." The clinic was that of Dr. Elias Ghanem, who is due to become chairman of the commission Oct. 1. Whether Ghanem examined Brown that day was unclear, but as the cancellation was being announced at about 5:45 P.M. Saturday, several commission members said they did not know of Brown's problem earlier in the week. Advertisement Brown was given a physical late Friday afternoon, before the weigh-in for the bout. According to Homanski, no problems were discovered at the time. Cooks said, though, that Brown's complaint about chest pains has been a recurring one since Brown lost his W.B.C. welterweight title last November to Buddy McGirt. After McGirt beat him, Brown was hospitalized here for several days, suffering from what he said was dehydration. Problem Is Not New In February, when Brown felt troubled by chest problems, he was examined at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. "His heart was checked out -- they injected dye in his arteries -- and he was just fine," said Homanski. But in his HBO interview, Cooks said that a doctor at Georgetown said Brown had a heart murmur that needed to be checked on a fight-by-fight basis. Brown said Saturday that had he known he would be detained by doctors, he never would have gone to the hospital -- that he wanted to fight. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 28, 1992, on Page C00009 of the National edition with the headline: BOXING; Brown's Pullout From Title Bout Leaves More Questions Than Answers.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »