Advertisement By JOE LAPOINTE and  Lou Holtz, the Notre Dame coach, mixed sarcastic humor with a touch of self-pity today in discussing the poll balloting that left his Fighting Irish as the No. 2 team in college football. Florida State, Holtz said, is "an outstanding team." "If they weren't, they wouldn't have been second-best," Holtz said. When the laughter subsided, he added: "That was out of line." But he thought the Associated Press and USA Today/CNN polls were out of line, too. Both Florida State and Notre Dame finished with records of 11-1. Florida State won the Orange Bowl over Nebraska, 18-16, on a late field goal. Earlier on New Year's Day, Notre Dame beat Texas A&M in the Cotton Bowl, 24-21, on a late field goal. But on Nov. 13, Notre Dame held off Florida State, 31-24, to supplant the Seminoles as No. 1. Holtz figured that head-to-head meeting should have influenced the vote, the way it did after the 1989 season, when Miami was voted No. 1 because it had defeated the Irish during the regular season. Advertisement "The game obviously didn't mean anything," Holtz said, referring to the game against Florida State. "They billed it the game of the century. I guess it was the game of the century if the right team won. I don't think there was any doubt that we were the superior team on that day. I just wish somebody could explain it to me. I'm sure it will be explained in the paper the way it was in '89. I'll be anxious to read what it was this year." Advertisement "Does it hurt? Yeah," Holtz said about being No. 2. "I hurt. I hurt as bad as I've ever hurt for our players. Don't tell people about your problems. Ninety percent of the people don't care and 10 percent are glad you've got them. A lot of people are real happy." Holtz called the disappointment his biggest since 1989. "I'm not over '89 yet," he added. As for his players, Holtz said: "I'm sure they're disappointed. But, a month from now, they won't even think about it more than 12 hours a day." Aggies Coach R. C. Slocum compared the anti-Notre Dame feeling to that against the Yankees when they were a baseball dynasty and against the Dallas Cowboys when they were called "America's Team" under Tom Landry.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Slocum said he also noticed the "animosity and contempt for Bill Walsh at Stanford" because that coach has been so successful. "People look for chinks in your armor, any way they can be critical of you," Slocum said. "It's part of our human psyche. That reaction shows up in the polls." Holtz said he didn't know whether reporters and coaches were prejudiced against Notre Dame, although he said he was disturbed by a story he read about reporters watching on television and cheering the Boston College field goal that beat Notre Dame, 41-39, the week after the Irish had defeated Florida State. "That bothers you a little bit," Holtz said. Holtz recalled a "Peanuts" comic strip he read many years ago. "Linus came running out and he said, 'I saw the greatest game I've ever seen!' " Holtz said. ' "There were eight seconds left to go, the other team was getting beat, and they had their ball at the 1-yard line. The guy went 99 yards for a touchdown! Everybody was happy and they won the game and they were jumping up and down! It was great!' "Lucy looked up at him and said, 'How did the other team feel?' " We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 3, 1994, on Page B00008 of the National edition with the headline: COLLEGE FOOTBALL; Holtz Sees Neither Logic Nor Justice in No. 2 Rating.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »