Advertisement 
Sports of The Times  By                     
 JULIET MACUR
 
JULY 19, 2014
 Andrew Talansky, one of the United States’ top road cyclists, never expected to spend the second half of the Tour de France on a lounge chair at his pool in Girona, Spain, with an ice pack chilling his ailing back and gauze covering several spots on his body now missing layers of skin. At this point in the Tour — a week before the finish in Paris — he thought he would be riding at the front of the pack as leader of the Garmin-Sharp team, a competitor to watch and fear over the race’s 2,277 miles. To match last year’s feat, he would be on his way to a top-10 finish, but ideally top five, proving that he wasn’t merely a 25-year-old flash in the pan from Miami — he was the next big thing in American cycling. But the Tour is unpredictable, a three-week odyssey that is often cruel, and this Tour has been especially so. Several of the sport’s biggest stars crashed in the first 10 stages of the 21-stage event and bowed out, leaving Vincenzo Nibali of Italy with a comfortable lead. The sprinter Mark Cavendish dislocated his collarbone and quit. Chris Froome, the defending champion, broke his left wrist and right hand and called it a day. Alberto Contador, a two-time Tour winner, broke his right leg and surrendered. Advertisement Talansky left the Tour, too, but of all the stories of riders who had given up on cycling’s most prestigious race, his was unique. He actually did not give up, at least on his final day, Stage 11. His ride that day is cycling lore. Advertisement He didn’t traverse four mountain passes solo to set himself up for a Tour victory, as Floyd Landis did in 2006 before being caught for doping that day. He didn’t ascend the Ax 3 Domaines climb in the third-fastest time ever, as Froome did last year. (No one had gone that fast since Lance Armstrong and Roberto Laiseka in 2001, when blood doping was rampant.) In a sport still trying to regain its credibility in the post-Armstrong era, Talansky didn’t win Stage 11. Or finish second. Or even cross the finish line within a half-hour of the stage winner. That was the beauty of it. Crashing hard on back-to-back stages, at what he said was 35 miles per hour, first landing on his left side, then his right, Talansky injured his shoulders, hips, knees and back. Then a respiratory infection set in, bringing a cough and a stuffy head and chest, and his body began to stiffen. During Stage 10, pain was shooting through his back with every turn of the pedals, and he was falling to the back of the pack. His face flushed with embarrassment. How could this happen to him, he thought, the one who weeks before had won the Critérium du Dauphiné, a Tour tuneup and a major indicator of a rider’s performance in the Tour? After edging Contador for that victory, he broke down in tears. Now his tears were falling for other reasons. Talansky ended Stage 10 in 26th place, plummeting from eighth a few days before. So much for being feared. The worst part was that he thought he had failed his teammates, who had sacrificed their possible glory to be his Tour Sherpas, delivering water bottles and food, riding with him and keeping him high in the overall standings. He hadn’t held up his end of the bargain. “I was so far gone, and it was hard to come to terms with that,” he said. “I was just so disappointed. My teammates had done so much for me.” He thought he could rebound, though, that his back would feel better with time and that he could maybe win a stage, or help his teammates win one. So he gritted his teeth and started Stage 11, and his epic ride began. Advertisement His back betrayed him. About three-quarters through the hilly stage, he pulled to the side of the road, crying and nearly distraught and ready to quit. He told Robbie Hunter, his team director, “I can’t do this anymore.” Hunter talked him off the ledge. Hunter told him to take a deep breath. He had been in Talansky’s position as a rider, injured or just tired and begging to end a race. Each time, his team director let him do it. Talansky didn’t need to finish and torture himself — after all, what big star would? But Hunter couldn’t let Talansky live with regret. “Andrew, I know you’re in pain, but sit here quietly and think this through,” Hunter told him. “I will support you either way. But if you quit, will you regret it tomorrow?”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Talansky is smart. In 2010, he made the decision to sign with the Garmin-Sharp team over Armstrong’s RadioShack team, which the next month became embroiled in the biggest doping scandal in cycling history. Sitting on a guardrail in eastern France during Stage 11, Talansky again made a smart move: He thought about how deflated his teammates would be if they heard he had abandoned the race, and how it would feel if his Tour ended there, in nowheresville France. “I stopped when I thought I couldn’t give anymore,” he said. “But I didn’t want it to end that way.” So after the Tour’s official Twitter feed announced that he had abandoned the race, he got back on his bike and pedaled. About 30 miles left. He and Hunter were ready for it to take three hours. But they knew that Talansky needed to make the time cut to avoid being ousted from the Tour. Talansky pushed on. Riding alone and through tears, he took it a mile at a time, with Hunter riding in the team car close by and shouting encouragement to Talansky. The Tour van that collects riders who quit was looming behind him, like the grim reaper. Fifteen minutes until the next climb. Three minutes until the top of the next hill. Trees, lots of trees. He thought about his wife, Kate, and all the people who had helped his career. He wasn’t going to let them down, not on this day, hopefully not ever. Advertisement He couldn’t miss the fans along the road. The top riders had long ridden past. But they had heard his story on their radios and on their smartphones. So they stayed for him, waiting, cheering. The ride was such a blur of incredible pain that Talansky doesn’t remember many details. Yet he remembers those cheers. “It was amazing to see them,” he said. “I found meaning in what I was doing, and I guess they saw that, too.” He crossed the finish line about 90 minutes after stopping to talk with Hunter. He asked someone if he had made the time cut, and he had, with five minutes to spare. His stage ended 32 minutes 5 seconds after the first rider finished. When he walked onto his team bus, no one said much. People patted him on the back, and he started to cry. All he wanted to do was look them in the eye, and show them that he would never give up on them. “I wanted to give them something to believe in that’s real,” he said. Though he pulled out of the race the next day, he was able to make that decision on his own, without leaving the Tour on an unfamiliar roadside. Hunter said the team morale had skyrocketed. Back home in Girona, Talansky said his decision to pedal on was one of the best ones he had ever made. “Maybe people won’t understand it, but I didn’t do it for a reward,” he said. When was the last time a pro athlete said that? Email: juliet@nytimes.com  A version of this article appears in print on July 20, 2014, on Page SP5 of the New York edition with the headline: Before Withdrawing, a Rider Displays a Champion’s Endurance.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »