Advertisement  HOCKEY  A Victory for Whalers  Geoff Sanderson scored two third-period goals as the Hartford Whalers avoided matching their worst start by beating the Ottawa Senators, 4-1, last night in Hartford, Conn. Only 7,628 fans, the fourth-lowest Hartford crowd, were on hand as the Whalers won their first game to end a four-game losing streak. Andrew Cassels and Robert Petrovicky also scored and Randy Cunneyworth had two assists as the Whalers scored more than two goals for the first time this season. Sylvain Turgeon scored his third goal for Ottawa. (AP) TENNIS  Bloom Defeats Connors  Gilad Bloom, who isn't even the local favorite, beat Jimmy Connors, the drawing card for the $155,000 Riklis Israel Tennis Center Classic, in Tel Aviv, yesterday in a grueling second-round match. Bloom, who is unseeded and is the second-ranked Israeli in the field behind No. 3 Amos Mansdorf, beat the 40-year-old Connors, 6-4, 4-6, 7-5, in a match that lasted 3 hours 20 minutes. Connors, seeded seventh, was denied a repeat of a point awarded to Bloom when the ball exploded. Connors protested the denial by tossing the deflated ball at the referee. (AP) Edberg Rallies for Victory: Top-seeded Stefen Edberg of Sweden beat Jim Grabb of the United States, 6-4, 6-4, as Grabb let five break points slip away in the second-round match in the Seiko Super tournament in Tokyo. Michael Chang, seeded second, beat a Russian qualifier, Andrei Olhovskiy, 6-2, 6-3. Goran Ivanisevic of Croatia, seeded fourth, fired 13 service aces and overwhelmed an American, Richey Reneberg, 6-3, 6-4. In second-round upsets, an American qualifier, Kenny Thorne, beat 10th-seeded Javier Sanchez of Spain, 6-3, 6-2; Patrick McEnroe of the United States defeated his 15th-seeded compatriot, David Wheaton, 6-1, 2-6, 6-4, and another American, Jonathan Stark, beat 16th-seeded of Australia, 6-3, 5-7, 7-6 (7-4). (AP) Navratilova Defeats Hy: Martina Navratilova struggled with the returns and the passing shots of Patricia Hy, but rallied to beat the Canadian, 7-6, 6-1, in the first round of the Porsche Grand Prix in Filderstadt, Germany. Top-seeded Gabriela Sabatini gained the quarterfinals by beating Natalya Medvedeva of Ukraine, 6-4, 6-4, in the second round. (AP) SOCCER  Russia Beats Iceland  Russia beat Iceland, 1-0, in its first official match of the World Cup qualifiying tournament yesterday in Moscow. The lone goal in the European Group 5 match was scored on the 66th minute by Sergei Yuran, a Ukrainian who plays for the Portuguese club Benfica. In Limassol, Cyprus, a goal by Mark Hughes, his first for Wales in two years, earned his team a 1-0 victory over Cyprus in a Group 4 match. In other World Cup qualifying matches, Portgual tied Scotland, 0-0, in Glasgow, and Switzerland earned an away draw against Italy, 2-2, in Group 1 matches. Norway earned a 1-1 draw against England in London, and Poland tied the Netherlands, 2-2, in Group 2 matches. Ireland tied the European champion, Denmark, 0-0, in Copenhagen, and Northern Ireland and Spain played to a 0-0 tie in Belfast in Group 3. Belgium defeated Romania, 1-0, in Brussels in another Group 4 match, and France blanked Austria, 2-0, in Paris in a Group 5 match. (AP) We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 15, 1992, on Page B00023 of the National edition with the headline: RESULTS PLUS.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »