Advertisement By JOE SEXTON and  It is 5:40 P.M. at Three Rivers Stadium. Barry Bonds stands at the plate, crashing baseball after baseball into the multiple decks in right field. It's a sight the National League has seen too much of and too little of in 1992. Clubs have crafted entire game plans to prevent Bonds from beating them. He has had the bat taken out of his hands again and again. His 31 intentional walks this season are the most in the majors. His 123 walks are 31 more than anyone else in the National League. "I don't know how he's got the numbers he does," said Don Slaught, the veteran catcher for the Pirates. "It ain't like they are giving him r.b.i. In fact, their doing their damnedest not to. The guy gets to swing the bat about once a game." It has often been enough. Tonight, Bonds swung his bat and collected another hit. He walked again, too, and not surprisingly, the Pirates won, 3-2, from the Mets. The triumph reduced Pittsburgh's clinching number for third straight title to 2. Numbers of a Star Advertisement Bonds has 31 home runs and has driven in 97 runs. His 71 extra-base hits are tops in the league. His .621 slugging percentage is 36 percentage points higher than the next man, Gary Sheffield of the Padres. No one else has scored more than Bonds's 104 runs. Advertisement "He's the m.v.p.," said Pirates Manager Jim Leyland. "There's no doubt in my mind. He's the best left fielder in the game, and he's playing on a first-place club. What do you have to do? If he doesn't win, I don't understand how it all works." It doesn't work on the field any more explosively or extravagantly than it has for Bonds in September. With the Pirates getting constant pressure from Montreal, Bonds has ruled. He is forever on base, forever a threat, forever crippling one more pitch. He has hit .452 over the last 14 games as the Pirates have applied what appears to be the knockout punch to the Expos. He has reached base safely 64 times in his last 110 plate appearances. He has walked 26 times in that span, and scored 25 runs in the 24 games. "A lot of things I've done this season, I've had to say, whoa," said Bonds. "I've had to almost say that's not right, that's impossible." Empty Bandwagon in April Before the season, more than a couple of observers termed Pittsburgh's shot at a third consecutive division title impossible. Bobby Bonilla was with the Mets as a free agent, John Smiley had been traded to Minnesota in a deal driven by economics, and Bonds was destined for free agency and perhaps a season of distracting speculation.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But Andy Van Slyke has hit .324. Jay Bell has been an anchor at shortstop and even mounted the N.L.'s longest hitting streak -- 22 consecutive games. Tim Wakefield has come out of obscurity and flung knuckleball after knuckleball and turned in inning after inning for a beleaguered starting rotation. Jose Lind has vacuumed everything hit near him at second. And Doug Drabek has put together yet one more clutch second half of stranglehold pitching. "It's not a great team by any means," said Leyland. "But it's a damn good ball club day in and day out." It's a club consequently headed for another run at the World Series, and after that likely another round of rupturing rearrangement. Bonds, the league's most valuable player in 1990, is the most attractive free agent to come on the market in a decade. 'To Find His Pot of Gold' Advertisement "I want Barry to chase the rainbow, to find his pot of gold and to understand that his pot of gold isn't only made up of money," said Leyland. "But I'm not going to try and sell him on staying with this club or to try and sell him on me or this city. I don't have that right. I don't want that right. That's the system, and more power to the players." With all that power, Bonds understands he has no control over whether he wins another m.v.p. award, terming it a result wrought by "statistics and sportswriters." So he has tried to keep a handle on his emotions. "I don't want to set myself up for disappointment," he said. "To win the N.L. East again this season has probably been the best one of the three. There were a lot of reasons for us to fall or fail." Barry Bonds, with a bat in his hands or taken out of his hands, is the central reason why the Pirates have not. INSIDE PITCH SID FERNANDEZ, who gave up a leadoff homer to GARY REDUS, took the loss for the Mets, and his record fell to 13-11. RANDY TOMLIN got the victory for the Pirates to improve his career mark against the Mets to 8-0. . . . The Mets are 2-11 against the Pirates. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 26, 1992, on Page 1001031 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Bonds Is, Of Course, A Key to Victory.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »