Advertisement By WILLIAM N. WALLACE Michigan State is out and Boston University is in, and that is the major surprise in the semifinal lineup for the National Collegiate Athletic Association's hockey tournament at Joe Louis Arena in Detroit. Eastern teams filled three of the four places for the first time since 1985 and for only the second time since the tournament began in 1948. In tomorrow's semifinal games, Boston College, the top-ranked team in the East, will play Wisconsin, the Western Association champion, and Colgate, the E.C.A.C. Hockey champion, will meet Boston University, who defeated the Red Raiders, 5-4, on Oct. 8. The championship game will be played Sunday night. Boston University upset Michigan State, the Central Association champion, by two games to one in their quarterfinal series. The Spartans, who finished the season with a 34-5-3 record, had been ranked first in the nation since early November. Advertisement The Terriers did it with consecutive 5-3 victories last Saturday and Sunday at Munn Arena in East Lansing, Mich., where the Spartans had lost only once in 19 games this season. Advertisement Although they had been playing well for the last three months, the Terriers went into the tournament with the lowest winning percentage, .600, of any of the 12 teams. They had finished third in the Hockey East's standing, lost to Maine in the semifinals of the league tournament, but then defeated North Dakota at home in the N.C.A.A. playoffs. Key Players Are Freshmen The key players have been two freshmen, Tony Amonte from Hingham, Mass., who had the winning goal in the third Michigan State game, and Scott Cashman, a 21-year old goalie from Canada, who had a 5-0 shutout in the third game of the North Dakota series.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. College hockey's distinct styles of play were evident in the Colgate-Lake Superior State series. The Lakers were a typical Western team favoring the clutch-grab-and-grind style while the Red Raiders prefer the speedy, wide-open game. The Red Raiders prevailed in two close games, 3-2 and 2-1, and Dave Gagnon, Colgate's freshman goalie, was outstanding. Boston College was also flying over the ice in its third match with Minnesota on Sunday. The Eagles won easily, 6-1, as Scott LaGrand, another freshman goalie, made 38 saves. The Gophers, who had won the second game, 2-1, will not be among the Final Four teams for the first time since 1985. In the two-game weekend series at Madison, Wis., Maine took Wisconsin into overtime before losing the second game to the Badgers, 4-3. The Badgers, whose record in their last 18 games is 16-1-1, will bring 10 players to Detroit who have played in more than 100 collegiate games. Five of those players have 160 or more career scoring points. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 29, 1990, on Page B00012 of the National edition with the headline: Hockey;   Boston University an Unexpected Surprise.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »