Advertisement By DAVE ANDERSON WHEN he's wearing his Giants uniform, Phil Simms always seems to have a football in his hands. Even when he was simmering on the sideline last season, he was always holding a football, tossing it, flipping it. As if that football were part of his passing hand. And for a quarterback, it should be. But last season Phil Simms knew it was really Jeff Hostetler's football. Even when Hoss was hurt, it was still Hoss's football. Before Monday night's game Phil Simms had to be wondering that if the Giants kept skidding to an 0-3 start, it would be Hoss's football again. But now, as he walked with his teammates toward the Soldier Field locker room after the 27-14 victory, he was smiling and patting Dave Meggett on the back. He also still had the football from the final play. Gripping it in his right hand, slamming it into his left palm. Thud, thud, thud. On the Giants, it's Phil Simms's football again. One play told his teammates and his coaches that. One third-down play that was sent in from the sideline. Advertisement "I changed it," he was saying now. As Simms crouched above center Bart Oates, he noticed the Bears had six defensive linemen in the game. Advertisement "I didn't want the play that was sent in," Simms said. "Even if my play didn't work, I knew I was right." It worked. Simms couldn't remember which third-down play it was, but with the game at stake in the third quarter, the Giants had four third-down plays that produced first downs and eventually a touchdown and a field goal: Meggett for 8 yards around right end, Simms to Stephen Baker at the left sideline for 13 yards, Simms to Meggett over the middle for 9 yards, Simms to Baker at the left sideline for 12 yards. Whichever third-down play it was, Simms had the confidence in his judgment that a quarterback must have. The confidence that it's his football. Again. Even when Simms generated four touchdowns in the second half of the 34-28 loss to the Dallas Cowboys a week ago Sunday, that confidence wasn't there. "After we scored those 28 points," he recalled, "I knew I had to make a play to get another touchdown. When I didn't, I was disappointed. I thought maybe I couldn't make the play when I had to. But to come in here on Monday night and score 27 points, I'm really proud of that. Five scoring drives."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. For all his success, the 36-year-old Simms had never sparkled in Soldier Field. When the Super Bowl XXI champions opened the 1987 season there on a Monday night, he was squashed, 34-19. When the Giants went there in the Super Bowl XX playoffs, he was blanked, 21-0. When the Giants lost there last season, 20-17, Simms stood on the sideline. And when they won Monday night, another quarterback might have sniped at Coach Ray Handley for benching him last season, but Simms has too much class to snipe. Instead, he talked about how he was "glad" for Handley. "He stuck with a lot of us," Simms said. "He hung in there with what he believed." Simms, who completed 19 of 29 passes for 220 and two touchdowns, also talked about how Handley had been "coaching more" during last week's practices, perhaps because offensive coordinator Jim Fassel had to return to California for the funeral of his father, killed in an automobile accident. Advertisement "Ray was saying things to me, saying things about the blocking," Simms said. "He even was talking to the defense more." Not that one victory salvaged the Giants' season. Befitting their 1-2 record, the Bears resembled one of the N.F.L.'s lesser teams. Coach Mike Ditka, who usually roars like a grizzly, sounded worn and tired. "I've been here a long time," Ditka said, "and I don't know that I've ever felt any worse about the way we played than I do right now." With the soft stretch of their schedule approaching, the Giants have an opportunity against four of the presumed lesser teams: Raiders, Cardinals, Rams and Seahawks. They will need all the victories they can grab before their final nine games include five crucial to playoff aspirations: home and home with both the Eagles and the Redskins, and a visit to Dallas. Those crucial games will determine if the Giants are a playoff contender or just another lesser team. But for now at least, Phil Simms is the Giants' quarterback. It's his football again. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 23, 1992, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; It's Simms's Football Once More.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »