Advertisement By TIMOTHY W. SMITH and  Coming off a near-1,000 yard receiving season, Rob Moore entered camp ready to give the Jets the kind of big-play threat that could help make them a contender. Unfortunately, he's been grounded for most of the preseason with a severly sprained left ankle. Moore sprained his ankle after getting tangled with safety Marcus Turner in practice right before the Jets' first game, on Aug. 1 against the Eagles. He reinjured the ankle against the Eagles and missed the next four weeks of practice and three preseason games. He returned to practice this week and will start against the Eagles at Veterans Stadium Thursday night in the Jets' last preseason game. Moore needs to work into shape by the time the Jets open the regular season against the Falcons at their new stadium, the Georgia Dome, in Atlanta on Sept. 6. "It's kind of like starting over again," Moore said. "You have to relearn and re-teach yourself to get your rhythm and timing down." A Deep Threat Advertisement The 23-year-old Moore, at 6 feet 3 inches and 205 pounds, is one of the most important ingredients in the Jets' big-play formula for success this season. He's the deep threat in the twin passing attack while Al Toon, at 6-4, 205 pounds is a more traditional possession receiver, fearless across the middle. Moore runs the 40-yard dash in 4.4 seconds and has a vertical leap of 45 inches, which makes him ideally suited to getting down the field quickly and outjumping shorter defenders for passes. Advertisement Moore has missed only one of 32 regular-season games in the last two years with an injury, but sitting out the last few weeks has made him feel more like a byproduct than a main ingredient in the Jets' 4-0 preseason record. "It's humiliating is what it is," Moore said. "To see your comrades out there working hard and you're standing around, it's not really fun." Now, a Strong Passer The sight of Rob Carpenter, a Plan B free agent from New England who was Moore's teammate at Syracuse University, catching a 70-yard touchdown pass against Green Bay produced mixed feelings for Moore. Perhaps a tinge of jealousy that he wasn't on the receiving end, but gratification that now the Jets have a quarterback, Browning Nagle, who can deliver a deep strike on target. Last year, Moore finished with 70 receptions, which tied him with six others for 10th in the National Football League, and he amassed 987 yards. But his longest reception was for 53 yards.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Last year, we were one step away, one yard away from making that big play," he said. "This year it's time for us to start making those plays. We've talked about it enough." The Jets selected Moore in the supplemental draft in 1990, which meant that they had to relinquish their first-round pick in the 1991 draft. So, in a sense, Moore is a first-round draft pick. And Then There's Thomas Moore, along with Blair Thomas, the first-round pick in 1990, and Nagle, the second-round pick last year, form the nucleus of an expected resurgence by the Jets. Thomas, who was the first No. 1 pick made by Coach Bruce Coslet and General Manager Dick Steinberg, has been only mediocre in the past two seasons, and he has come under heavy criticism. Moore has so far escaped such criticism, perhaps because his numbers have been respectable. He has gradually improved over the last two years, from 44 receptions for 692 yards and six touchdowns as a rookie to 70 for 987 yards and five touchdowns last year. Also, Moore says, Thomas's situation has actually helped take some of the pressure off him. Advertisement "He was the first No. 1 pick, and then I came in after him," Moore said. "So, all eyes are still all on him. I kind of snuck in the back door. He's taken a lot of the heat and I'm standing in the back, hanging out. "I think Blair is doing a great job handling it. A lot of other people would have folded the tents and collapsed. He's done a great job of working hard in the off season. He's going to surprise people and do what Blair is capable of doing. He's had some nagging injuries, and people don't realize that that cuts into your productivity." After standing on the sidelines for the past four weeks with a sprained ankle, no one realizes more than Moore how an injury can cut into productivity. EXTRA POINTS Jets Coach BRUCE COSLET said he hadn't decided how he would rotate quarterbacks BROWNING NAGLE and KEN O'BRIEN against the Eagles. Nagle will start the game and O'Brien, who is still technically in the running for the starting job, will play some, but to what extent Coslet wouldn't say. . . . Center JIM SWEENEY, who has missed all of the preseason games with elbow surgery, will start against the Eagles. . . . RANDALL CUNNINGHAM, the Eagles' star quarterback, will not play because of a sprained groin muscle. JIM McMAHON will get the start. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 27, 1992, on Page B00014 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL; Moore Is Back, Ready for 'Bombs'.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »