Advertisement By MIKE FREEMAN and  To switch suddenly from playing outside linebacker to the inside is not as easy as it sounds. On the outside, the violence is more one on one. The linebacker takes on tight ends and tackles. On the inside, he faces running backs, guards, tackles, centers, whoever a team throws at him. "It takes a hell of an athlete to make a switch from the outside to the inside," said inside linebacker Carlton Bailey. "I know I would have a hard time with it. I don't know if I could. You've got to hand it to Buck, though." Buck is rookie Marcus Buckley, who was drafted by the Giants in the third round out of Texas A&M. He was selected because of excellent pass-rushing skills, not necessarily because he stuffs the run. Yet there he was against the New Orleans Saints on Monday night, playing on the inside in place of Andre Powell. And Buckley made one of the biggest hits of the night, clocking Dalton Hilliard when the big back tried to run up the middle. Even Buckley's Surprised The Saints ran for only 11 yards, the lowest rushing total for a team this season and one of the lowest in league history. Running backs usually fall for 11 yards. Recalling that night, Buckley still can't believe he was a force at inside linebacker. Advertisement "Sometimes it was strange to be out there on the inside," he said. "I kept saying to myself, 'I'm inside taking on all these different people. This is weird.' But to be completely honest, I'll play anywhere as long as I get on the field." Advertisement Buckley may be back out there on Sunday when the 11-3 Giants play the 5-9 Cardinals in Phoenix. Powell dislocated his shoulder when he first replaced Michael Brooks and is probably still hurting, although he's not listed on the injury report. Brooks, the Pro Bowler who was having a great season until he sprained his foot, is listed as doubtful. Brooks tried to run on the bad foot today but the Giants say he struggled, meaning he will probably sit out this week. That puts Buckley in the spotlight again. "I feel like I have a long way to go," said Buckley, "But I think I'm better than what people have seen so far. I think I can be pretty good. Hopefully I'll get better, not worse."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. When the Giants drafted Buckley, he was seen as the guy who would replace Lawrence Taylor, the best linebacker of all time. During training camp Taylor said that Buckley would be a great outside linebacker some day. He follows a long line of good linebackers coming out of Texas A&M, such as first-round draft pick Quentin Coryatt, now with Indianapolis. An all-American his senior year who was a semifinalist for the Dick Butkus award (given to the nation's top linebacker), Buckley has a chance to be a dominant player because of his athleticism and speed. "I think Marcus has got great football instincts," said Coach Dan Reeves. "He's got tremendous explosion." He showed some of that explosion before a national televised audience by making that big hit on Hilliard. Buckley finished the game with three tackles, the second highest behind Bailey, who had five, among linebackers. System and Teammates Help "Buck did a good job," said Bailey. "He stepped in and showed why they drafted him so high. He's a good athlete." And he had help from his coaches and teammates. As Bailey said, the Giants' defensive system does make it easier for someone to step into an unfamiliar situation. Not to mention that both Bailey and Brooks prepped Buckley all week to get him ready, helping him with the reads, telling him what to expect. Brooks, as he does to just about everyone on the defense, yells at Buckley every now and then to motivate him. "Michael Brooks is a great guy," Buckley said, "Bailey, too. They've helped me a lot." EXTRA POINTS H-back AARON PIERCE, tackle JUMBO ELLIOTT and cornerback PHILLIPI SPARKS are listed as probable for the Cardinals game. Elliott, who has missed the last two with disk problems in his back, has a better chance of playing since he practiced today. . . . The Giants change backup quarterbacks every 1,000 miles, so this week KENT GRAHAM is behind PHIL SIMMS.  Last week, DAVE BROWN was the backup. The Giants continue to plan on switching the two each week. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 23, 1993, on Page B00010 of the National edition with the headline: Giants' Buckley Moves Inside And Turns the Rush Inside-Out.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »