Advertisement By IRA BERKOW THE report last week that Emile Griffith lay "close to death" in a hospital in Queens because of kidney damage, while a Senate subcommittee was looking into the current evils of boxing, struck a curious and tragic historical note. Griffith is the 54-year-old former world welterweight and middleweight champion. Thirty years ago, he killed a man in the ring. The opponent in that welterweight championship fight was Benny (Kid) Paret. In the 12th round, Griffith caught Paret in the ropes and pummeled him with 17 straight right-hand blows. "As he went down," wrote Norman Mailer, who was at ringside that March night in Madison Square Garden, "the sound of Griffith's punches echoed in the mind like a heavy ax in the distance chopping into a wet log." Paret lay in a coma for nine days, then died. "All I was trying to do was win the title," said Griffith. "I didn't want to hurt him." Advertisement The killing unleashed a fury in this country, and around the world, a demand that boxing be abolished, or at least be reformed. Advertisement What set this fight apart, and gave it such renown, was that it was the first time that a man was killed in a championship fight that was nationally televised. A good part of the country (and later the rest of the world) watched it -- including many replays of the knockout -- and was revolted by it. There were investigations, and Government probes. Even the Vatican issued a comment about commercial fist-fighting, calling it an "objectively immoral sport." Yet the essence of the sport remained unchanged. In fact, one year later, in another title fight, Davey Moore, the featherweight champion, was beaten to death by Sugar Ramos. Little has changed through these 30 years; there have been repeated, if not annual, cries to kill boxing, or, at least, to exact some reform. There have been numerous appeals to place professional boxing under a Federal commission, where it belongs. Right now, each state conducts its own prize-fighting affairs, some of them wildly slipshod. Through the years, various elected officials stand up, holler, wave, posture, get their names in the papers and their faces on television, making sure their constituents take notice, then drop boxing to go onto other, more politically potent issues. Meanwhile, the world of boxing, with few exceptions, remains as bizarre and corrupt as ever. It may be, as Paret's Cuban mother said, "a sinful business," but it is a legal business, and a lot of money is made on it. The largest sums are often scooped up by the promoters and at the expense of the fighters, who, in the end, often wind up with little more for their efforts than flat noses and flat wallets, and hearing funny noises in their heads.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Boxing won't be abolished any time soon, and shouldn't. There are people who fight of their own free will, for whatever their reasons (and usually it is to seek a way out of mean circumstances, a cliche that happens to be a fact). And there are the lusty multitude who pay to see men attempt to beat each other senseless. At certain times in the nation's history, boxing has indeed been ruled illegal, but that turned out to be as successful as Prohibition. This is the reality, as are such occupational hazards as the periodic deaths. So the next best thing is reform, which is what the Senate's Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, which can recommend legislation, seemed to be after last week in its two-day focus on corrupt practices in boxing. The group centered some of its attention on the sport's governing bodies. It looked at how organized crime infiltrates the boxing business, how payments are made to improve fighters' ratings so they can get shots at the title, how the alphabet governing bodies -- the W.B.C., the W.B.A., the I.B.F. and even the fledgling W.B.O. -- work their sleazy wonders, how a promoter like Don (the Barber) King clips his fighters, or Bob ("Yesterday, I lied to you, but today I'm telling the truth") Arum performs multimillion-dollar equivalents of three-card monte. Advertisement While some fighters, like heavyweight champion Evander Holyfield, testified, along with a former Mafia marcher, Michael Franzese, the proceedings were watched with interest by those who care about boxing. One of those observing was Gil Clancy, now a boxing broadcaster, who was Emile Griffith's trainer. "The whole business seems to be getting worse, with more governing bodies acting independently and more title fights -- there were once eight champions, now there's a million of 'em -- and less and less real concern for the fighters themselves," said Clancy. "I followed the hearings, and I got the impression that these Senators just don't know what they're doing." What he didn't hear much of, and what continued to be lost, was the fact that for professional fighters, there are no pensions, no general health plan, shoddy sanctioning, haphazard training of referees and few devices in place to protect them not just from unscrupulous promoters or managers, but also from themselves. Clancy recalled the great clamor for reform after Griffith killed Paret. "Nothing ever came of it," he said. After Griffith's fighting career ended, he continued in the sport, which, he said, he loved, seeing the beauty of achievement amid the brutality of the life. Until he was hospitalized over a week ago after what was reported as a fall, he had been training boxers at Gleason's Gym in Brooklyn. "Emile's doing much better now," said Clancy. "I think he's out of danger." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 17, 1992, on Page C00005 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; That 'Sinful Business' Remains in Business.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »