Advertisement By CLAIRE SMITH Bud Selig, the closest thing to a commissioner baseball has these days, is expressing a bit of puzzlement. He does not understand why the owners' overthrow of Commissioner Fay Vincent is being construed as a signal that management not only intends to reopen negotiations on the labor agreement with players come January, but also plans to manufacture such a confrontation so as to shut down the game for a very long time. The public that still bothers to care about baseball may be so war-weary as to be beyond understanding how players, or anyone else, have drawn such pessimistic conclusions. Donald Fehr, a person with more than a passing interest in this issue, is more than willing to provide the answer. Fehr, the head of the players' union, says that the players, always suspicious of the owners' motives, are not just wary, they're angry, angrier then they've been since being locked out in the spring of 1990. Why? "Have you heard the word 'reconciliation?' " Fehr asked. "Have you heard the word 'partnership?' Have you heard the words 'new understanding?' Have you heard any of that? All you've heard is war." Advertisement Fehr expressed his feelings yesterday, speaking by telephone from Chicago, his third stop on his cross-country trek to visit his constituency, a tour that started the day after Vincent resigned. Advertisement "There is no public indication that there is the slightest interest on behalf of the owners in doing anything except fighting a war for the sake of fighting a war, of reestablishing their prominence, of making clear their primacy," Fehr said. "So, they throw out Fay. They make it clear they have utter disdain for the public. And so the next group they beat up upon is the players." Fehr had said little on baseball's upheaval since 18 of 28 owners cast a no-confidence vote against Vincent last week and since Vincent's subsequent resignation on Monday. He had wanted to see what emerged from the first post-Vincent owners' meeting, something that occurred the last two days in St. Louis. Though the owners were pretty much mum about their labor stance and the extent of their discussions, they issued no statements whatsoever to dissuade Fehr from his dire predictions. In fact, the actions and attitudes emanating from the meeting here may well enforce the belief that baseball is considering making war once more. According to a participant in the owners' meeting, the owners were pretty subdued until economic and labor issues came up. "The focus of attention went up," the participant said. "In my opinion, I wouldn't be surprised if there is a lockout. No votes were taken, but they were certainly feisty enough about it."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Then there are the recent words of Jerry Reinsdorf, owner of the Chicago White Sox and the power broker being credited with bringing down Vincent and orchestrating the coronation of Selig Wednesday. He was quoted as saying in the Chicago Sun-Times on Sept. 4: "If a commissioner has an obligation to constituencies other than the owners, I don't think he should be involved. When we go to war with the union, I want him to have an obligation only to the owners." Since Vincent last June refused to waive his powers to act in the best interest of baseball when it came to labor relations, he obviously did not fit the Reinsdorf description. And since major league owners have given no indication that they are about to abandon Vincent's positions on realignment or his perceived opposition to the Giants' move to Florida, it increases the suspicion he's gone either for reasons of incredible incompatibility or because of the issue of labor. "It is conceivable that Fay would have been thrown out quite apart from lockout issues," Fehr said. "It is, however, accurate that among the people who were instrumental in coercing those 18 votes are the people most interested in fighting a conflict with the players for purposes of fighting a conflict with the players. This way they have no one in position to interfere with that, to raise questions." Would Vincent have inserted himself into a confrontation with the players? He did in 1990, entering negotiations with Fehr and the players at the request of owners like Selig in an effort to help end a lockout. One spring later, Vincent negotiated with the umpires' union, angering the league presidents. Advertisement Now, with Vincent gone, Fehr is convinced there is only one mind-set within management, that qualms over Selig heading the executive council that runs baseball in Vincent's absence, with Selig running the Player Relations Committee, management's negotiating arm, with Reinsdorf having his way, have been muted for good. "The owners no longer perceive a difference between the P.R.C., the owners as a group, the executive council or Reinsdorf's living room," Fehr said. So it is that more than 650 players wait for Dec. 11, the date owners and the players must inform each other whether or not they intend to exercise the reopener in the basic agreement a year early. So it is that by Jan. 11, that reopener could be in effect. With Vincent out, the most powerful varsity the owners ever took on prepares for battle. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 11, 1992, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: ON BASEBALL; Fehr Awaits 2 Words: Delay Ball.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »