Advertisement By JOE LAPOINTE and  On his visit to New York last month for the National Hockey League's All-Star weekend, 20-year-old Aleksei Yashin of the Ottawa Senators went out on the town the night before the game. He had a good time, although he didn't exactly paint Times Square red. "I went to a Broadway theater and I saw 'Phantom of the Opera' with my mom," he said. "It was great, a great moment in my life." The next afternoon, at Madison Square Garden, he scored the winning goal for the Eastern Conference, another good moment. "When you make something happen on the ice, and all the fans in the stadium stand up and cheer, it's better than getting money," he said. "It's what makes a hockey player happy." Worst Record in N.H.L. So far, in his first North American season, this center from Russia is bringing a few moments of joy to the fans of the dreary Ottawa team. Although the Senators have the worst record in the 26-team league (9-41), Yashin is the leading candidate for the Calder trophy as rookie of the year. Advertisement He has 25 goals for a team that has scored only 146 while winning only 9 times in 58 tries, going into tonight's game against the Rangers at the Civic Arena. He has outshown Alexandre Daigle, his fellow Senators rookie, who was drafted first over all in the league last summer and earns more than twice as much money. Advertisement Tall and lean at 6 feet 4 inches and 216 pounds, Yashin looks and plays a little like Jean Beliveau, the elegant center who had a Hall of Fame career with the Montreal Canadiens in the 1950's and 1960's. Although not an exceptionally fast skater, Yashin knows how to change speeds to throw opponents out of sync, in the manner of Wayne Gretzky. A tricky stick handler, Yashin shields the puck with his body in the style of Mario Lemieux. Unlike some young athletes, who live an independent life of bachelor apartments and fancy automobiles, Yashin has a more sedate arrangement. His first major purchases, on a $750,000 salary, were a suburban house next to a golf course and a Volvo. He did buy a mink coat for his mother, Tatyana, who moved here with him, along with his father, Valery, and his 13-year-old brother, Dmitri. 'The Best People Are My Family' "I like to live with my parents," Yashin said. "It is not an easy adaptation to N.H.L. hockey, to Canada and to this life. I need to have them. I need some people and the best people are my family." Yashin spoke after practice on Friday in the lobby of a rink in an Ottawa suburb. He wore on his head a stocking cap that said "Canada." When he sat down at a table to talk, he took a small armless chair, flipped it around so that the back faced forward, and wrapped his long limbs around it during an occasionally intense conversation. Although his English isn't perfect yet, it is improving rapidly and he has a great deal to say. He is the son of a university professor, and he is comfortable discussing world history, the arts and science. When he paused to put his thoughts into English, he raised his blue-green eyes to the ceiling, looked across it as if searching, then straightened his gaze and began sentences with "O.K., I want to tell you . . ." or "Now, let me say . . ." Yashin's father is even more talkative and seems comfortable with any topic. When Valery Yashin taught engineering, one of the guest speakers addressing the faculty was a rising politician named Boris Yeltsin. "We are from the same part of the country," Valery Yashin said. "One of my friends was his volleyball coach." Valery and Tatyana Yashin also were athletes. He played goalie in team handball; she was a nationally ranked volleyball player. A Wave to His Parents  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The parents are unusually close to their son, coming to almost every practice and game, taking him out for dinner after home games, then taking him home afterward to study videotapes. During practices, when Yashin scores a goal, he sometimes turns to them in the stands and waves while they beam back. Advertisement "Aleksei is a young guy," said Valery Yashin. "It's necessary for him to have parents as maybe close friends, to discuss some elements of his hockey life. Hockey is a very hard job. Young guys at this age, they see that this is the best life, they think that it will continue from the beginning and never end, that it will always be good, good, good, good. "I say, 'Aleksei, you must understand that you have a very short part of life doing this. You must understand your future, not only your financial situation, but what you will do after hockey.' I tell Aleksei, 'You must use every minute, every hour for your education, to learn in your life, the elements of culture and music and art.' " Perhaps the stability of family life has helped Yashin to cope with the culture shock that North American hockey brings to many Russian athletes. One whose adjustment has been difficult is Aleksei Kovalev of the Rangers, a close friend of Yashin from when they were linemates and roommates on the Dynamo Moscow team and the Russian national junior team. Kovalev, under suspension for the third time this season for aggressive play, is an enormously talented right wing who has yet to fully adapt to the N.H.L. style. He frequently frets about it and the frustration is obvious to all around the Rangers. Yashin hears about it firsthand. "Sometimes he phones me, or I phone him," Yashin said. "We talk about the game, the N.H.L., how we play, what is new in hockey. It's very interesting. We talk about other Russian players, how they are doing. I know him very, very well. He just needs to wait, to be patient. He needs other guys to help him. He's a maximal guy and he wants it all now." Yashin also has had some difficult moments. He played alongside Bob Kudelski and their line was very successful. Suddenly, during pre-game warm-ups, Kudelski was told to take off his uniform because he had been traded to Florida. Yashin didn't know about such things and was stunned to learn Kudelski was no longer his teammate. Another adjustment has been to the grueling schedule of 84 games. A few weeks ago, Coach Rick Bowness called Yashin to a private meeting to discuss intensity. Asked if Yashin is becoming weary, Bowness said: "He plays 25 to 28 minutes a game, and the intensity is an adjustment, the amount of games in a short period of time. You hope you don't have to play him a lot, but we play Aleksei a lot because he's our best player and he deserves to play." Yashin concedes that "with another team, I might not get so much ice time." He said he would prefer a better team record to high individual point totals but admits he wouldn't mind winning the Calder. "Sure, it is an important competition," he said. "All sportsmen like to win such trophies." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 13, 1994, on Page 8008005 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; Offering Family Values And Plenty of Goals.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »