Advertisement By IRA BERKOW THE father of Boom Boom Geoffrion once told his hockey-player-to-be son, "When they're down, step on 'em." This often has been the suggested attitude in sports, more in practice than in professed theories of sportsmanship. Lawrence Taylor, in fact, stated it with bitterness after the Giants game Sunday, using much the same language as the Boom Boom's. The adage is the quintessence of the killer instinct, something the Giants football team lacks. We know the Giants do not possess enough of this commodity because it comes from an unimpeachable source: the head coach of the team, Ray Handley. He said so yesterday. This was offered at a news conference in Giants Stadium, after the Giants' third loss of the season in four games, a 13-10 defeat Sunday to the Los Angeles Raiders, a heretofore winless operation. Advertisement Handley, his glasses glinting in the overhead lights of a windowless room, said, "We should've put 'em away." As Giant fans don't need to be reminded, the Giants had a 10-0 lead at halftime, and failed to hold it. Advertisement "We did not exhibit a killer instinct on offense or defense in the second half," he said. After you get through with offense and defense, there aren't a lot of other areas on the football field in which one can exhibit a killer instinct, or any other behavior. Handley's response also assumes that the team had exhibited a killer instinct in the first half, against a team with one of the worst records in the Western Hemisphere. Yet when the Giants were on the goal line at the end of the first half, the coach decided to go for a field goal instead of a touchdown. "We didn't want to go into the locker room 7-0," he said. "Ten to nothing is better." This is true for the scoreboard, and for the conventional and safe National Football League approach. But, does such an attempt for bigger and better things, even if it fails at this juncture, not induce killer instinct? At this point, another question was asked of the coach: "Is the killer instinct genetic or environmental?" Handley paused, then said, "Too difficult a question." There was an unrelated question, and then a follow up to the previous one. "Can you teach or influence killer instinct?" Handley took the question to be impertinent, an investigation into whether the coach or the players were to blame for this lack of murderous resolve.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Look," he said, "it was an observation, not a philosophy." He mentioned, however, that the Giants as Super Bowl winners under Bill Parcells didn't really exert a killer instinct. "They just wore you down," he said. Many years ago, Cus D'Amato, the late boxing trainer, when asked about killer instinct with his fighters, replied that it was not only overrated, but possibly destructive for the athlete who demonstrates it. Advertisement "You lose control with the killer instinct," D'Amato said. "What you want to do when you have an opponent in trouble, is remember your fundamentals, your preparation, and look for your openings." "Maybe," said Ottis Anderson, the Giants' veteran running back, "we got a little lax in the second half." Maybe, then, they forgot their fundamentals, their preparation, and were not concentrating on those openings. This also was representative of the three games the Giants have lost. They've played well for a couple of quarters, first or second, but neglected to remember that a football game is four quarters. Killer instinct or whatever, the Giants were missing a crucial component. "Until I do my job better," said Bart Oates, the center, "then I can't assess blame to anyone else. I missed some blocks." At an important moment in the game, meanwhile, when the Giants had 10 men on the field, Handley explained, "We have our assignments, but if we didn't have enough players on the field, then I must take responsibility." A football team is indeed a combination of things, like a pizza. But while this team may be a little too old or a little undertalented to be of championship caliber, it still has not risen to the occasion. This team, Handley said at the beginning of the season, was going to be his. No longer would it be the team of Parcells, an inheritance. So the disappointments of last season, and those of the current one, inevitably must point back to Handley. It just may be that coaching the Giants for him, like answering that question about killer instinct, is, in his words, "too difficult." Because of a mechanical error, the third paragraph of the Sports of The Times column yesterday was replaced in some copies by a revised second paragraph. The third paragraph -- referring to the lackluster performance of the New York Giants on Sunday in their 13-10 loss to the Los Angeles Raiders -- should have read as follows: "The adage is the quintessence of the killer instinct, something the Giants football team lacks. We know the Giants do not possess enough of this commodity because it comes from an unimpeachable source: the head coach of the team, Ray Handley. He said so yesterday." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 6, 1992, on Page B00009 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; No Murder In the Eyes Of the Giants.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »