Advertisement By SAM GOLDAPER With 2-year-old Maurice Jr. trailing behind in stocking feet after misplacing his shoes, Maurice Cheeks arrived at the airport, just missing a 7 o'clock flight to New York on Saturday night. The other Knicks had long departed after an embarrassing, record-breaking 157-128 playoff loss to the Boston Celtics on Saturday. Cheeks had stayed behind to pick up his son at the hotel and take him home to Philadelphia via New York. During the wait at the airport and the flight to New York, Cheeks, when not entertaining his son, discussed the loss. More important, he talked about what the Knicks, in a must-win situation, needed to do to beat the Celtics on Wednesday night at Madison Square Garden. The Celtics lead the three-of-five-game series, 2-0. Run, Run and More Run ''We need to have our running game going for 48 minutes,'' said the Knicks' playmaker, who had only five assists Saturday. ''That's the only way we're going to beat them. For us to run, we have to control the boards. We just don't match up well with them in a half-court game and we had trouble getting them out of it. Did you notice that when we ran well early in the game, it was the only time the game was close?'' Advertisement Cheeks was referring to the final six minutes of the opening period when the Knicks sliced a 12-point lead to 41-38 by the end of the quarter. Advertisement Explaining the goal of a running game, Cheeks said: ''The mixture of putting pressure on the ball and running is supposed to take them out of their game and tire them. If we stop running, or allow them get a big lead on us, it gives them a chance to make substitutions and rest their people, and that defeats what we're trying to accomplish. It also didn't help us missing our shots.'' When Cheeks was told that the Knicks shot 51 percent from the field, he appeared a bit stunned and said: ''And we got beat by 29. That's not very positive.'' Messages From the Sideline Cheeks was not saying anything different from what Stu Jackson, the Knicks' coach, has been saying for a long time. During every timeout Saturday, and while he paced the Boston Garden sideline, Jackson verbally and physically reminded the Knicks to get the ball up the floor quickly. Is the running game the answer to beating the Celtics? Several current and former coaches and scouts in the National Basketball Association, some speaking under the condition of anonymity, questioned the Knicks' ability to beat the Celtics by running.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The consensus of those polled in telephone interviews appeared to be that for the Knicks' running game to be effective and produce easy baskets, the Celtics would have to miss their shots, lack good ball-handlers or commit a lot of turnovers. ''That's not like the Celtics,'' one former coach said. ''They shot 67 percent Saturday; they have very good ball-handlers and they usually don't commit many turnovers.'' 'Convuluted Feeling' ''There seems to be a common convuluted feeling that the Celtics are old and decrepit,'' said Chuck Daly, the Detroit Pistons' coach. ''It's been going on for over two and a half years now. Even basketball people have gotten around to thinking that way. I'm not sure that with the Knicks' personnel that the Celtics can be beaten just in a running game. ''You're talking about a front line of Larry Bird, Kevin McHale and Robert Parish, three future Hall of Famers. To beat the Celtics, especially in the playoffs, I would think it would take a mixture of good running and halfcourt games. You have to find ways of stopping the Celtics. They're a very difficult team to rebound and play against. They try to get good inside position, and because of their size, they should never be allowed to do that. Advertisement ''Once they get position, they're too big, too strong and too good to deal with. You saw what McHale did to the Knicks inside Saturday. He made 12 of his 15 shots.'' ''It hasn't helped the Knicks that they lost Oakley,'' Daly added, referring to Charles Oakley, the Knicks' power forward. ''They need his strength and his intimidation. The Knicks are a lot like what happened to us when Joe Dumars broke his hand.'' It is going to be interesting to see what happens should the Celtics and Pistons emerge victorious in their opening-round series. The Pistons also lead their series with the Indiana Pacers, 2-0. It appears another Celtics-Pistons series is in the making. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 30, 1990, on Page C00006 of the National edition with the headline: Will Staying Active Keep Knicks Alive?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »