Advertisement By MARSHALL SCHUON IT'S hard to believe, but 1992 marks the 30th anniversary of the Grand Prix, the popular Pontiac that had a lot to do with improving automotive architecture in the latter part of the 1960's and beyond. That first GP, vintage 1962, has been pretty much forgotten, but the re-do a year later is the one that a lot of people remember, given its tasteful looks and crisp shape. For 1963, the car shed the chrome and fins of the era in favor of cleaner lines and a classier face that properly infected the industry. It also helped Pontiac move into the No. 3 spot in sales, a status that it retained for the next eight years. At the time, the car was a hardtop coupe, sans center pillars, and it offered buyers a sporty two-door with V8 power, a handsome profile and some interesting styling innovations in the form of a concave rear window and taillamps hidden behind the rear-end grillwork. Advertisement Like the rest of us, of course, the Grand Prix has changed over the years. But the name is still there at the Pontiac store, still semi-sporty and still one of the G.M. division's big sellers. Advertisement Unfortunately, the day of the hardtop seems to have passed, and the Grand Prix now comes as a coupe with pillars behind the front doors and as a four-door sedan, both versions having front-wheel drive and V6 engines. It is not as pretty as in days of yore. Not as fast. Not as big. But then cars today are generally less pretty, powerful, interesting, etc. Ah, well . . . The testers were '93 models, a coupe and sedan, both metallic aqua. They were different vehicles to be sure, but they also shared more than their venerable name. The coupe came with a 3.4-liter engine with 24 valves and dual cams. The engine, producing 200 horsepower, made the car extremely quick, even with the four-speed automatic transmission. The sedan, with a 3.1-liter engine that sent 140 horses through an automatic three-speed was, naturally, less so. And, while the coupe had a look that was mean and almost menacing, the sedan was just a sporty family sedan. Both came with Pontiac's new "BYP" package, however, which is interesting all by itself because it flies in the face of that original Grand Prix -- the one that simplified things. The BYP is an ordering code for the customer, and a Pontiac spokesman said the letters don't really mean anything. But they add up to a package that includes vinyl "appearance" gewgaws on the exterior, bucket seats, power and convenience equipment and 16-inch wheels with tires that are capable of handling an aggressive foot on the throttle. The package turns the relatively basic coupe or sedan into a flashy car, and Pontiac expects it to generate even more sales in 1993 than it did this year, particularly since it now will be available on the top-of-the-line LE sedan as well as the SE model which had it in '92. According to company figures, more than half of this year's customers ordered the upgrade on SE sedans.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The new Grand Prix has body-colored bumpers and, with a nod to the past, nodes that serve as small bumper guards. The hood rises on gas struts, and there is a light for peering at after-dark problems. At the other end, there is a trunk that is shallow in the coupe and fairly good-sized in the sedan. Both have cargo nets across the rear, and the sedan offers a pass-through into the rear seat. The opening, suitable for skis and two-by-fours, is accessible when the rear seat's center armrest is folded down, and it is about the size of a comic book. Advertisement Inside, the BYP package gives both cars all the bells and whistles that any buyer could want. There is full power equipment, an automatic "down" for the driver's window that aids in paying tolls, and such other amenities as cruise control and a tilt wheel. The interior, tan on the test coupe, gray on the sedan, is busier than one might like, and it is annoying that the sedan's rear windows go only halfway down. Another annoyance is the design of the dash, which reflects in the windshield. The sound system's front speakers are mounted on top of the panel, and a perfect image of the left speaker plants itself directly in front of the driver, particularly on sunny days. A tiny glovebox hides behind a full-width door, but the console between the buckets makes up for it with a couple of cubbies and a covered bin. Controls for the power windows are convenient in the armrests, along with the button for the electric locks, and arrow buttons, also in the driver's armrest, control the power side-view mirrors. The dash panel is well-arranged, and instrumentation on both coupe and sedan includes a 120-m.p.h. speedometer, a tachometer and gauges for fuel, volts, temperature and oil pressure. Front headroom is ample on both cars, and the sedan's rear seat offers plenty of space, even for those of the long-legged persuasion. Those same tall folk will be less than happy behind the wheel, since there is little travel to the seat, but the driving position for people of average size is excellent. Much of that makes the car worth considering, and the BYP package makes it a bargain in today's market. The sticker for the LE sedan, for example, is $14,890, plus $505 for delivery. Specifying the appearance and comfort group, plus such things as the $450 antilock brakes, will bring the total to $18,487. For a midsized car, that is something of a steal. Just try to forget that the original Grand Prix cost only $3,490, good looks, fresh air and all. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 11, 1992, on Page 8008014 of the National edition with the headline: ABOUT CARS; Pontiac's Grand Prix: 30 Years of Flash.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »