Advertisement By JOSEPH DURSO A.P. Indy, undefeated in his last seven races but unraced in three months because of an injured hoof, will return to the stage today as the favorite in the Molson Million in Toronto and as the ranking candidate for the championship of the class of 3-year-old colts in North America. But the horse, a royally bred son of Seattle Slew and grandson of Secretariat, will be challenged not only by his long layoff but also by two accomplished rivals, the Canadian star Alydeed and the American star Technology. They will race a mile and a quarter in a field of seven for a purse of $1 million, and all three will be trying to take giant strides toward the Breeders' Cup Classic on Oct. 31. The spotlight will focus on A.P. Indy, who has raced to the top of the 3-year-old division despite the crack in his left front hoof. He was scratched from the Kentucky Derby in May, but has built a winning streak that includes victories in the Hollywood Futurity, the Santa Anita Derby and the Belmont Stakes. "The Breeders' Cup is the prime objective," said Neil Drysdale, his trainer. "We want him to be at his peak at the end of October." New Role for Fly So Free Advertisement At Belmont Park, meanwhile, Tommy Valando's champion Fly So Free will audition for a new role: sprinter. He will make his debut today in the Fall Highweight Handicap, a six-furlong dash with a cast of six that includes seasoned sprinters like Senor Speedy and Salt Lake.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In another cast change, Pat Day will replace Julie Krone as the rider on Fly So Free. The switch was made before Krone began serving a seven-day suspension on Friday for careless riding. She will still ride Rubiano and other stars of Scotty Schulhofer's stable, but more muscle was wanted to control Fly So Free for his switch in roles. Meanwhile, nine fillies and mares held the stage in yesterday's feature race at Belmont, the Flower Bowl Handicap, a Grade I stakes worth $200,000. And the Fox Ridge Farm's 5-year-old mare Christiecat bounced back from her sixth-place finish in the Diana at Saratoga and upset the odds by outrunning Ratings by a length and a half, with Plenty of Grace four lengths farther back. Advertisement Christiecat, trained by Pat Kelly and ridden by Jean-Luc Samyn, ran the mile and a quarter on the grass in 2:01 flat and paid $11.20 for $2 to win. She has won 11 times in 33 starts in a long and productive career. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 13, 1992, on Page 8008002 of the National edition with the headline: HORSE RACING; Move Over, Everyone: Here Comes A.P. Indy.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »