Advertisement By CLIFTON BROWN and  Rumeal Robinson showed his former teammates the same scintillating play he has been showing the entire league. Finishing with a season-high 14 assists tonight, Robinson helped the Nets cruise to their sixth victory in their last seven games, a 114-93 verdict over the Atlanta Hawks. It was a significant performance by the Nets for several reasons. Usually, the first game after a long trip is difficult, yet the Nets played with zest. Second, Atlanta (32-32) came to Byrne Meadowlands Arena riding a six-game winning streak and playing its best basketball of the season. But the Nets made the Hawks look ordinary, and they continued their superb play since Kenny Anderson's season-ending wrist injury. The Nets (37-26) are 6-2 since Anderson went down, including a 3-1 West Coast road trip. Some expected the Nets to fall apart when they lost Anderson. Instead, they have pulled together. And the glue at point guard has been Robinson. 'He Gives Up the Ball' Advertisement "We've adapted very well," said Nets Coach Chuck Daly. "The other players have confidence in Rumeal. They weren't sure at first, as I wasn't, but they have a lot of confidence in him. I think they like playing with him, frankly. He gives up the ball." Advertisement When Robinson gave up the ball tonight, his teammates knew what to do with it. Drazen Petrovic (28 points), Derrick Coleman (27 points, 14 rebounds) and Chris Morris (22 points) took turns carrying the offense, as the Nets shot 51.7 percent from the field. Yet most of the post-game attention centered on Robinson, who was the National Basketball Association player of the week last week and whose career has been reborn since Anderson went down. This was a special night for Robinson because the Hawks are the team that traded him to the Nets in November, in exchange for Mookie Blaylock. The Hawks gave up on Robinson after two disappointing seasons as their point guard, but while the feeling of beating Atlanta must have been sweet, he tried not to gloat. Breaking Down Defenses "I just wanted to get the win, but of course it was special," Robinson said. "I've still got a lot of friends over there, and we'll get back to being friends after the season. Right now, I just want to help us win." That's exactly what Robinson did. And Daly loves watching Robinson use his strength to penetrate and break down the defense.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "He's a power point guard," Daly said. "That's a term that I devised, probably the only original thing I've brought to the game in 35 years. It's a guy who uses strength, who is very determined going to the basket, not fancy with the ball, not trying to make cute plays, which I like." Meanwhile, the Nets took care of matters at the defensive end too, holding Dominique Wilkins to 24 points on 9-for-21 shooting. Wilkins entered the game having scored at least 30 points in five consecutive games. "Daly and the coaching staff are the best that I've been around at gamepreparation for the superstars," said Nets center Sam Bowie. "Whenever we have a marquee player that has to get 30 for their team to win, our coaching staff is very good at defensive prepartion. Tonight was other example.' A Lift From Morris This game only got interesting when the Nets lost interest. A comical miscue by Coleman, when he lost control of the ball while going up for an uncontested dunk, sparked Atlanta on a 7-0 run that turned a comfortable 85-70 New Jersey lead into a 85-77 edge. But the Nets quickly regained control, sparked by Morris, who has given the Nets a lift off the bench since Daly removed him from the starting lineup a week ago. The bench, a problem for the Nets at one point during the season, has become a strength, as Daly maneuvers players like a grand master maneuvering chess pieces. Advertisement "Morris has been playing well off the bench, while I think the bench is the perfect place for Sam at this point of his career," Daly said. But all of the Nets are grateful these days for Robinson. "Kenny's a big part of our success, and if we had him we'd be even better," Coleman said. "We miss Kenny, but life goes on." And so have the Nets. REBOUNDS CHUCKY BROWN was wearing a patch over his right eye after the game, thanks to being poked in the eye by PAUL GRAHAM. Brown expects to play Friday when the Nets play host to Milwaukee. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 18, 1993, on Page B00014 of the National edition with the headline: PRO BASKETBALL; Robinson (14 Assists) Shows Off Against Hawks.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »