Advertisement By MURRAY CHASS The Chicago Cubs, contending that the National League constitution takes precedence over the Major League Agreement, moved quickly yesterday to stay where they have been for the past 24 years: in the Eastern Division. Acting only 24 hours after Commissioner Fay Vincent ordered the league to realign for next season, the Cubs filed a lawsuit in United States District Court in Chicago, challenging Vincent's decision to move the Cubs and the St. Louis Cardinals to the Western Division and the Atlanta Braves and the Cincinnati Reds to the Eastern Division. The Cubs seek an injunction, first preliminary, then permanent, blocking the commissioner's ruling. If Vincent is not restrained by July 20 from implementing the realignment plan, the Cubs argued in their complaint, "it will be exceedingly difficult, if not impossible, for the National League president to issue a schedule for the 1993 season in a timely fashion." The deadline for submitting the schedule to league clubs and the Players Association was July 1, but the union gave the league office an extension. Advertisement The commissioner's office declined comment on the action other than to say, "We are aware the suit has been filed." United States District Court Judge Suzanne B. Conlon scheduled a hearing this morning on the injunction request, presumably to establish a schedule for filing briefs and a date for a hearing. Advertisement Peter O'Malley, owner of the Los Angeles Dodgers, initiated a telephone conference call among National League owners, proposing that the league as a whole join the lawsuit. But the proposal was resoundingly rejected, 12-2, with only O'Malley and the Cubs favoring the move and the two 1993 expansion teams -- Florida and Colorado -- voting with the majority. The Cubs brought the suit despite a provision in the Major League Agreement that bars clubs from suing the commissioner. As part of the briefs they will file in support of their suit, the Cubs will argue that that clause, under which clubs "waive such right of recourse to the courts," does not prevent them from suing in this instance. A lawyer familiar with the suit noted that it was nothing new for courts in Chicago to address the issue of clubs attempting to sue the commissioner; they have permitted previous cases to go forward. For example, when Charles O. Finley, then owner of the Oakland Athletics, sued Commissioner Bowie Kuhn in 1977 for vetoing the sale of Vida Blue, Joe Rudi and Rollie Fingers, the United States District Court in Chicago, Finley's resident city, heard the case. After it ruled for Kuhn, the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit upheld Kuhn's victory, finding that "the waiver of recourse clause contained in the Major League Agreement is valid and binding on the parties and the courts." The primary issue in the Cubs' legal maneuver is the commissioner's authority under the Major League Agreement. The Cubs contend that Vincent exceeded that authority by ordering realignment, saying his action was "also arbitrary and capricious." "The commissioner can no more order the Chicago Cubs to play in the Western Division of the National League than he could order them to play in the American League," the Cubs' complaint said. 'Best Interests' Clause In ordering realignment, which he was asked to do by 6 of the 12 existing National League clubs, Vincent used his best-interests-of-baseball powers. In so doing, the Cubs argued, he ignored the National League constitution. Advertisement When the Cubs and the Cardinals agreed to play in the Eastern Division after the league was divided into six-team divisions in 1969, the complaint said, they were given the right not to be transferred to the West without their consent. In 1982, when the constitution was amended to eliminate the requirement for unanimous votes, the league's owners decided that no club could be moved without the consent of the clubs involved.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. That provision, the Cubs argued, takes precedence over anything the commissioner could do under the Major League Agreement. The Cubs' suit, which runs 26 pages, cited the history of the attempt by some clubs to have the league realigned. The first move came in June 1991, when the planned addition of two expansion teams for 1993 prompted some clubs, including the Houston Astros, to propose realignment. In a vote last March 4, 10 clubs approved, but the Mets and the Cubs voted no. The Cubs thus vetoed the change. In a telephone conference call a month later to determine if the clubs favoring realignment should seek Vincent's assistance, five clubs said yes. The Cubs identified them as Atlanta, Montreal, Pittsburgh, San Diego and San Francisco. Cincinnati, Los Angeles, Philadelphia, St. Louis and the Mets were opposed to the idea, with the others joining the Cubs and the Mets because they believed that the league vote should stand. The Astros and the Cubs were not represented on the call, but they held their respective positions. Persuasion Bid Fails A committee of several owners went to Chicago to try to persuade the Cubs to reconsider, but the Cubs were unmoved by their arguments. The commissioner, asked to act, sought the views of all the clubs. Bill White, the league president, who originally had favored realignment, wrote to Vincent on June 8 opposing the commissioner's intervention, saying it would constitute "unprecedented individual action." White, like some of the clubs, felt that once the league voted, the result should stand. The Cubs wrote Vincent a series of letters, telling him his proposed action was "impermissible and in excess of his authority." Advertisement The Mets wrote to the commissioner on June 12, saying he didn't have authority because it was an "intra-league dispute." Issue Is Broadened The Astros contributed a letter June 18 but broadened the issue, citing "the economic disaster" facing baseball and bringing television superstations into the debate. The Cubs' games are carried nationally on cable by WGN, a superstation owned by the Tribune Company, which also owns the Cubs. One of the reasons the Cubs opposed realignment was that with the team in the Western Division, more of its games would be played on the West Coast, and the later starting times would intrude on the telecasts. According to the suit, the Astros' letter stated that "the superstation is the greatest single problem which prevails in baseball from a revenue standpoint" and that it enables "two fellow teams to profit enormously at the expense of the league." The other team is the Atlanta Braves, whose games are carried by superstation TBS. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 8, 1992, on Page B00007 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Balking at Going to West, the Cubs Go to Court.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »