Advertisement By IRA BERKOW IN the middle of the night, Ed Ford was knocking at the door of the Hurley home in Country Village, where the house lights and Christmas decorations shone through the windows. The Hurleys live less than 20 minutes from Ford's apartment in Jersey City, where he had heard the terrible news about Bobby Hurley after being awakened by a neighbor's phone call, who had heard it on a radio. After trying to call the Hurleys but finding the line busy, he hurriedly dressed and drove to their house. This was yesterday at about 3 in the morning and Chris Hurley, the mother of Bobby Hurley, answered the door, tears in her eyes. Ford hugged her and then entered the den where Bob Hurley Sr. was sitting quietly and intently watching the news on CNN with his youngest son, Danny, the 20-year-old Seton Hall junior. Advertisement "No one said a word -- everyone was too stunned," said Ford, a long-time family friend. "Then it flashed on the screen -- Bobby's truck in a ditch after the accident. The reports were that he was in very, very critical condition." Advertisement Upstairs, the Hurley's other child, Melissa, an eighth-grader, slept. Melissa wouldn't know what had happened to her eldest brother until a little later, when her parents left to catch a 5:30 A.M. flight to Sacramento to be at Bobby's bedside in the University of California-Davis medical center. Bobby, the 6-foot rookie point guard for the Sacramento Kings, had left Arco Arena about an hour after his game against the Los Angeles Clippers Sunday night. He was driving home in his small truck on a dark road when another car, driving without its headlights on, slammed into him. Bobby, who was not wearing a seat belt, was sent flying out of the vehicle and into a ditch, and yesterday was in serious but stable condition with multiple injuries that included two collapsed lungs and several broken ribs. Ford is a scouting supervisor for the Chicago Cubs, but his relationship with the Hurley family goes back many years. Bob Hurley Sr. is one of most successful high school coaches in the country, at St. Anthony in Jersey City, where he had coached, among others, both of his sons. On Saturday Danny announced that he was leaving the Seton Hall team for an unspecified period "for personal reasons." The personal reasons surely have to do with abuse he has taken from some fans who sometimes have cursed him for basketball mistakes and taunted him that he "isn't as good" as his brother Bobby. "It's been brutal," said Ford.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Hurleys are a tight-knit family, and Bob Hurley Sr. had been watching the Kings game Sunday night on satellite. He observed that Bobby's shot was "flat" and intended to tell him that night in their regular calls to each other. The phone call Hurley Sr. got, though, was not from Bobby, as expected, but from a hospital spokesperson. And now all of the family's basketball concerns paled. All his life, Bobby Hurley has been proving that he was better than anyone expected him to be, going back to grammar school. "He was always a skinny little kid," said Ford. "But he was strong-willed. I remember one day Bob threw Bobby out of practice, made him take the bus home alone. That was important, because it showed the other kids that Bob was going to treat them equally -- even if one of them was his own son." And Bobby led the team to a state championship in each of his four years. Bobby went to Duke with a reputation as an excellent passer, a superb penetrator and defensive hustler, but with a suspect outside shot. Advertisement "But nobody seemed to take into account his heart," said Howard Garfinkel, the head of the high-powered summer basketball camp, Five Star, which Bobby Hurley regularly attended. "Just when you didn't think he'd learn to shoot the 3's, he started knocking down the 3's." With Bobby, Duke went to the N.C.A.A. championship game three times, winning it twice. Bobby had been a first-round draft pick by the Kings, and again many felt that he would not make it. Too small, too slow, too slight. "And he was making his adjustments," said Ford, "and probably had more bad games than good. But Bobby has a history of responding to challenges." Yesterday Bobby lay in a hospital bed, facing his greatest challenge. Mrs. Hurley called Ed Ford from the hospital after visiting with her son. "Bobby recognized me, and squeezed my hand," she told him. She added that her son would remain in intensive care for at least the next 72 hours. Then she paused. "And now," she said, "now all we can do is wait." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 14, 1993, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; The Hurleys Respond To a Tragedy.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »