Advertisement By MICHAEL JANOFSKY and  State and Federal officials investigating the assault on Nancy Kerrigan are meeting this weekend in Los Angeles with the figure skater to review developments in the case. The meeting does not necessarily indicate that authorities have concluded their efforts in determining how many people were involved in the Jan. 6 attack in Detroit. So far, four men have been charged, including the former husband of Tonya Harding, Kerrigan's chief American rival. Rather, with Kerrigan on the West Coast to shoot a new commercial for Reebok, the shoe company, they found it a convenient opportunity to inform her of progress in the investigation, said two people familiar with the case who knew of the meeting. As a result, four people made the trip -- the two deputy district attorneys involved in the case, Norman W. Frink and John Bradley, and two agents from the Portland bureau of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Oregon Law In keeping with Oregon's victim's rights laws, it is common for prosecutors to update the victim and solicit opinion on a variety of issues in a case, including any possibilities of plea-bargain arrangements for anyone charged. Advertisement "Schrunk's office is always concerned that the victims be kept informed," said Lawrence Matasar, a Portland criminal lawyer who is not involved in the case, referring to Michael Schrunk, the District Attorney for Multnomah County. "But they look for input, not marching orders. The District Attorney still has to decide what to do." Advertisement Any sensitivities to Kerrigan might also take into account the high visibility of the case and the interest it has generated throughout the world, with the Winter Olympics beginning next month in Norway. Kerrigan, who was unable to skate in the national championships, was given a spot on the United States team, provided she is healthy. Harding won the other berth by winning the national title. Among those who took an active interest was Sen. Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, who said he was asked by Brenda Kerrigan, the skater's mother, on Jan. 13 to make sure that the case was not turned over to local authorities in Portland and Detroit, at the exclusion of Federal agents. The Kerrigan family lives in Stoneham, Mass. The Senator's chief of staff, Paul Donovan, said that the Senator passed on the family's concern to a senior official in the Justice Department, who assured him, Donovan said, that appropriate procedures would be followed. 'Best Investigation'  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Whether those communications were influential or not, one investigator familiar with the F.B.I.'s involvement said that the "best investigators from the bureau, from the bank robbery and fugitive squads," were actively pursuing leads in the case, while other cases in the area are being set aside. Bart Gori, a spokesman for the Portland office of the F.B.I., which covers all of Oregon, said that 15 agents, about a quarter of those in the office, have worked on the Kerrigan case. "That's because there's a lot to do," he said. But he added that it was routine that some cases would be left alone while agents worked on others. "That's the nature of the work," he said. "Things come and go. You concentrate on one thing, then you go back to others." Nearly two weeks after the attack, in which Kerrigan was struck on the right knee, investigators have interviewed all but one of the men charged, Jeff Gillooly, who was married to Harding in 1990 and divorced from her last August. They reconciled in the fall and lived together until this week, when Harding said she was separating from him. No Plea Bargain Yet Gillooly's attorney, Ronald H. Hoevet, has denied that any negotiations were under way for a plea bargain. The others charged in the case, including Shawn E. Eckardt, who worked as Harding's bodyguard, have implicated Gillooly in the conspiracy and have given authorities grounds to believe that Harding was also involved. Advertisement The authorities say they also have telephone records from the Gillooly-Harding residence that show calls were made to a skating rink on Cape Cod where Kerrigan practices. Authorities say Eckardt was told by Gillooly that the calls were made to learn Kerrigan's practice time so that the assault could be carried out. Eckardt also told authorities that Gillooly said that Harding had created the alibi that the calls were to seek Kerrigan's autograph for a fan, if anyone asked about the nature of the calls. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 23, 1994, on Page 8008007 of the National edition with the headline: FIGURE SKATING; Kerrigan to Get an Update From Officials.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »