Advertisement By FILIP BONDY and  LeRoy Walker, who will be elected president of the United States Olympic Committee on Sunday, is already spending much of his time deflecting the Olympic flirtations of market-conscious professional sports leagues in North America. Walker said today that he would meet next week in Atlanta with David Stern, commissioner of the National Basketball Association, to try to diffuse their differences and work out a compromise, through the USA Basketball federation, that would halve the league's participation at the 1996 Olympic Games. He met with Bill White, president of the National League, in Atlanta at the first playoff game between the Braves and the Pirates. In another scheduled talk, before a Game 6 in Atlanta, Walker will try to convince White that a College World Series team would be a more appropriate Olympic representative than a major league or minor league all-star team. Suspicious of N.H.L. Overtures Walker also said that he was suspicious of the National Hockey League's overtures toward the Winter Olympics, and that he was concerned by a public campaign from the league's president, Gil Stein, to use the Games as a method of publicizing the league's quality of play. Advertisement "If they say it openly, I'm disturbed about it," Walker said about the N.H.L.'s attitude, expressed in broadcasts by Stein. Advertisement "I hope the N.H.L. doesn't throw something together," Walker added. "There has to be some sense of sanity about it. They have to go through the membership." Any final decision about the involvement of American hockey pros in the Olympics has to be made by USA Hockey, this country's federation. Walker, speaking to a few reporters between sessions of the United States Olympic Committee Congress, said he was "appalled" at how many people had complained to him about the participation of the Dream Team -- the United States basketball team, made up primarily of N.B.A. players -- in the recent Summer Games in Barcelona, Spain. 'Like Watching the Globetrotters' "After five minutes, they turned off the basketball games," Walker said. "It was like watching the Globetrotters." When Walker meets with Stern, he said, he expects a degree of cooperation from the commissioner. "Dave and I both agree to get this behind us," Walker said. "It gets both of us bashed. All we want is what's good for the sport. He would agree not to disenfranchise a whole group of people."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Walker, who was chief of mission for the United States delegation at Barcelona, envisions a United States Olympic basketball team composed of six N.B.A. players and six college players. He does not see that 50-50 option for baseball, because major league baseball would have to disrupt its season for the Olympics and free players from the Dominican Republic, Venezuela, Canada, Puerto Rico and other participating national teams. Walker said the College World Series champions, with the possible addition of a few top players, would be a worthy representative of the United States. "They've played 65 games together," he said. On the eve of his unopposed election, Walker addressed issues beyond the attempted inroads by professional sports. He said the possibility of a new President in Washington did not concern him, that he would expect continued support from a Democratic or Republican administration. He is worried more about raising money in a slumping economy. Advertisement "I don't know how long a sponsor like I.B.M. can lay off 20,000 people and then give $40 million to the Olympic movement," Walker said. Walker said he would continue to push for a $1 check-off for taxpayers toward the United States Olympic Team, but he admitted that opponents of this were legitimately concerned that other worthy organizations, like the Red Cross, could demand the same. Walker's most passionate issue remained his commitment to some sense of amateurism in the Olympic movement, even in the face of professional league entrepreneurs. "We have to change, but most of us don't want to lose that feeling of Christmas in wintertime," Walker said. "People believe in Santa Claus, even when it's not true. Let's not lose amateurism completely." Olympic Cutback Suggested In addition to officer elections, the United States Olympic Committee Board of Directors will decide on Sunday whether to decrease the number of American athletes traveling to future Games. RALPH HALE, a vice presidential candidate and chairman of the Games Preparation and Services Committee, is recommending that the U.S.O.C. cut back the number by no longer filling all maximum quotas set by the International Olympic Committee. Hale would also like to see fewer discretionary picks, avoiding the sort of mess that occurred for the United States in bobsledding at Albertville, France. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 11, 1992, on Page 8008007 of the National edition with the headline: OLYMPICS; Walker Seeking Minimum Of Pros.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »