Advertisement By WILLIAM N. WALLACE and  Syracuse was tested today by a difficult Big East opponent, Virginia Tech, but the Orangemen displayed their considerable skills in winning a game that seemed closer than the final score, 28-9. The result brought up an instant question about Syracuse and Miami, the team the Orangemen will play Nov. 21. Two weeks ago, Virginia Tech lost to the Hurricanes by 20 points. How does Syracuse relate to Miami? "They are certainly comparable," said Coach Frank Beamer of Virginia Tech. "They're both great teams and it should be a heck of a game." Getting to the Point Two Virginia Tech defensive linemen were more specific. "Syracuse has more offense than Miami," Billy Swarm said. "They've got a much better inside running game." Advertisement David Wimmer said: "Yes, but Miami has the best group of receivers you could ask for. Syracuse is going to have to contain those receivers and the quarterback, Gino Torretta, who is so quick." Advertisement Swarm added, "Defensively I think they are about even." Maurice DeShazo, the Virginia Tech quarterback, who gave Syracuse some fits today, said of the Hurricanes: "I think they will stop Syracuse's rushing and the question will be if they can stop Syracuse's passing. Syracuse will match up well, but another question is do they have the depth to stay with the Hurricanes." Before they face Miami, which has an 8-0 record and was off today, the Orangemen must play Boston College in Chestnut Hill, Mass., next Saturday. The Hurricanes will meet Temple at home. Today's victory, achieved before a capacity crowd of 49,192 in the Carrier Dome, was the eighth this season for the Orangemen against one defeat, that to Ohio State on Sept. 19. Virginia Tech, which has played without much luck this season, lost for the sixth time against two victories and one tie. That potent inside running game worked well for the Orangemen, who quickly found the soft spots in the Virginia Tech defense on an opening drive that covered 52 yards in eight plays. The last found David Walker, the tailback, running 5 yards up the middle into the Hokie end zone. Syracuse scored a second touchdown on its next possesion, but there was no rout in the making. Virginia Tech stiffened defensively and DeShazo began to scramble effectively. Graves to Johnson, Twice  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Ryan Williams gave the Hokies their first points late in the first quarter with a 27-yard field goal, and the halftime score was 14-3. There were two more touchdowns for the home side in the second half, both scored by Antonio Johnson, the wide receiver, on passes of 26 and 15 yards from Marvin Graves. Virginia Tech's touchdown came on a 62-yard pass play, DeShazo to Tony Kennedy, the tailback, in the third quarter. Advertisement DeShazo, limping on a sore leg, left the game in the fourth quarter and his successor, Treg Koel, was a less effective drop-back passer without the threat of a run. Sending Out the Reserves The game ended with Syracuse reserves at the Hokie 5-yard line. The Orangemen had totaled 441 offensive yards to 328 for Virginia Tech, and 25 first downs to the Hokies' 17. Six Syracuse running backs gained 265 yards rushing on 36 plays, almost all to the inside for an average of 6.1 yards a carry. That was telling. Walker was the leader with 76 yards. Graves, the adept director of the Orange offense, had a modest passing performance: 13 of 20 for 198 yards. Two passes were intercepted, the first a tipped pass and the second in the Virginia Tech end zone in the fourth quarter. In part because the inside rushing worked so well, the Orangemen's big-play performer, Qadry Ismail, had a quiet game, three receptions for 68 yards and one kickoff return for 21 yards. DeShazo gained 46 yards on his scrambles for the Hokies, but he was also sacked three times for losses totaling 35 yards. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 8, 1992, on Page 8008008 of the National edition with the headline: COLLEGE FOOTBALL; Syracuse Passes Test With Glowing Marks.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »