Advertisement  DAN O'BRIEN, the world decathlon record-holder, is back this weekend in his hometown, Klamath Falls, Ore., where he plans to help raise money to help kids stay in school and off alcohol and drugs. About 300 people, including busloads of elementary school children and the Henley High School Band, greeted O'Brien on Friday at the Klamath Falls airport. "This was definitely a hero's welcome," O'Brien said. "It's every kid's dream." "This key won't open many doors, but it will open many hearts in Klamath Falls," said Mayor GEORGE FLITCRAFT, who presented O'Brien with a key to the city. O'Brien overcame drinking problems and brushes with the law, which led to his expulsion from the University of Idaho in 1987, to win the decathlon in the 1991 world championships. He failed to make the United States Olympic team in the event that carries the unofficial title of world's greatest athlete by missing the opening height in the pole vault. But he set the world decathlon record of 8,871 points in a meet in France last month. At Henley High, his alma mater, he spoke about some advice he received at a decathlon clinic from MILT CAMPBELL, the 1956 Olympic gold medalist, who asked each decathlete whether he had written his goals on a piece of paper and placed it his wallets. O'Brien said he immediately went to his room and wrote "9,000 points" on one side of a small piece of paper and "world's greatest athlete" on the other. "I wouldn't have achieved what I have if I hadn't set those goals," he said. "I was a floater and as soon as I set solid goals, I could achieve what I wanted." (AP) We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 27, 1992, on Page 8008010 of the National edition with the headline: SPORTS PEOPLE: TRACK AND FIELD; O'Brien Goes Home to Help Students.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »