Andy Pettitte threw out the ceremonial first pitch before Game 2 of the Yankees’ American League division series Sunday, dressed in a blue Yankees hooded sweatshirt and jeans. Most Yankees fans were probably wishing he was wearing pinstripes and that his pitches were not ceremonial. Even Pettitte, who retired last year after a good season in which he went 11-3 with a 3.28 earned run average, said that when he got out to the mound Sunday, it made him feel for the first time that he wished he were still playing. “I would have to say part of you is like, yeah, there’s no doubt,” he said. “And I don’t know if that will ever go away.” Once he stood on the hill and saw his longtime catcher and friend, Jorge Posada, crouching behind the plate fiddling with the dirt, Pettitte said he had a flashback to his 13 seasons with the Yankees. “I got out there, and he was still messing with the dirt, and that’s what I remember,” Pettitte said. “I’d be ready to throw a pitch, and he’d be messing with the dirt, covering up the line. He was doing that, and I was like, ‘This is pretty surreal.'” Pettitte was one of the most successful postseason pitchers, going 19-10 with a 3.83 E.R.A., including a 7-2 record in the American League Championship Series. Despite his momentary sense of longing, Pettitte said he was thoroughly enjoying his retirement and does not regret his decision to step away. “I’m so content, and it’s just been awesome,” he said. “Retirement’s been everything I thought it would be. I was concerned because a lot of people told me that they thought it would be a real tough transition for me, and it hasn’t been. It’s been pretty easy for me, which for me kind of solidified my decision.” Pettitte said he had intentionally stayed away from Yankee Stadium to avoid being a distraction. But the team kept calling him to ask him to come back in some capacity, and he finally relented. His wife, Laura, sang the national anthem before he threw out the first pitch. The New York Times reporters Tyler Kepner, Ben Shpigel, Jack Curry and Joe Lapointe, along with their Times colleagues, will bring baseball fans inside the run up to the 2008 baseball season with access, analysis and the latest updates from spring training. Tyler Kepner has covered the Yankees for The New York Times since 2002.  He joined The Times in 2000 as the Mets beat writer. A native of Philadelphia and a graduate of Vanderbilt University, Kepner has also covered the Angels for the Riverside Press-Enterprise in California and the Mariners for the Seattle Post-Intelligencer. He lives in Connecticut with his wife and their four children. Ben Shpigel has covered the Mets for The Times since 2005. Before then, he was a staff writer for the Dallas Morning News for two years. He also worked at The News Journal in Wilmington, Del., and for the Atlanta Journal-Constitution.  Shpigel received a bachelor's degree in English and journalism from Emory University and a master's degree in journalism from Columbia University. He and his wife, Rebecca, live in Manhattan. Jack Curry has covered baseball for the The New
York Times for 18 seasons.  Since 1998, he has served as the newspaper's national baseball writer.  Before that, Curry covered the Yankees from 1991-1997.  He was also the beat writer for the New Jersey Nets' 1990-1991 season and covered college basketball, college football and wrote for the Metro section. Born in Jersey City, N.J., Curry graduated from Fordham University. He and his wife, Pamela, live in New Jersey. 
			This blog’s regular features, including live game analysis, news and notes from Tyler Kepner, David Waldstein and others, can now be found on the baseball section of our website.Read more… 
			The free-agent second baseman Robinson Cano is reportedly still seeking a 10-year deal for $310 million, figures the Yankees are said to be unwilling to meet. Read more… 
			When asked what he has done thus far in the off-season, Mets General Manager Sandy Alderson responded with a joke. Read more… 
			The Mets maybe should, but most assuredly won’t, defy all expectations and make a legitimate bid to lure Robinson Cano away from the Yankees.Read more… 
			The Yankees are waiting to hear whether Curtis Granderson will accept their qualifying offer, and set their outfield for 2014, or test the market and send the Yankees chasing another free agent. Read more… Follow Advertisement