Advertisement  AP Dave Babych scored the tie-breaking goal 36 seconds into the third period and Pat Verbeek had two goals tonight as the Hartford Whalers beat Boston, 5-3, in Game 3 of their Adams Division semifinal series. Brad Shaw added a goal and three assists as the Whalers took a lead of two games to one in the four-of-seven-game series, which resumes Wednesday night in Hartford. Babych snapped a 2-2 tie when he took a pass from Shaw, skated into the right circle and beat Andy Moog to the upper right corner with a slap shot. Verbeek made the score 4-2 at 2 minutes 13 seconds, sliding a pass from Shaw under Moog. The Bruins narrowed the gap to 4-3 at 8:25 when Randy Burridge nudged Jim Wiemer's between-the-legs pass behind Peter Sidorkiewicz. But the Whalers held on and Kevin Dineen scored an empty-net goal with 18 seconds left. Canadiens 2 Sabres 1 MONTREAL (AP) - Brian Skrudland scored at 12:35 of overtime to give Montreal a two-games-to-one lead over Buffalo in their Adams Division semifinal series. Advertisement Skrudland took a passout from Shayne Corson at the right corner of the net and jammed the puck past Daren Puppa for his second career overtime goal. Advertisement The series resumes Wednesday night at the Forum. The Canadiens tied the score midway through the second period on a brilliant individual effort by Stephane Richer.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Montreal's leading scorer intercepted a pass in center ice, broke in alone and deked Puppa to the ice before sliding the puck into a virtually empty net. The Sabres, who were shut out in Game 2, opened the scoring at 7:15 when Phil Housley scored on a power play. Montreal outshot the Sabres by 33-31. Each team had six shots in overtime. The Sabres' power play was 1 for 10 in the series until Montreal's Donald Dufresne was sent off for tripping early in the first period. Buffalo used the man advantage to take the lead when Housley wristed a shot from the point through a screen that the goalie Patrick Roy did not see until it had sailed over his left shoulder. It was Housley's first goal of the series. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 10, 1990, on Page B00010 of the National edition with the headline: Whalers Top Bruins.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »