Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJULY 19, 2014
 Zack Greinke is getting tripped up by first innings. Greinke, a Los Angeles Dodgers right-hander, allowed the first four hitters he faced to reach base and score in a 4-2 loss at the St. Louis Cardinals on Saturday, giving him defeats in consecutive regular-season starts for the first time in nearly four years. Greinke (11-6) walked a season-high five and gave up four runs and six hits in five and two-thirds innings. The last time he had lost back-to-back regular-season starts was in September 2010, when he played for Kansas City. (Last year, he lost to Colorado in his regular-season finale and was beaten by Atlanta in his first postseason start.) Greinke allowed four runs over his first 16 pitches. He did not allow a hit in the next three innings but was removed with two outs and two runners on in the sixth. Los Angeles has scored just 12 runs in its last seven games and has three runs in Greinke’s last two starts. Advertisement Cardinals starter Joe Kelly gave up four hits over seven innings in his second outing since a three-month stint on the disabled list because of a hamstring strain. He retired the last 13 batters he faced as the Cardinals won for the eighth time in 10 games. Trevor Rosenthal, the Cardinals’ third reliever of the game, got his 30th save in 34 chances when Andre Either grounded into a game-ending double play. Cardinals outfielder Matt Holliday left the game in the fifth, four innings after he was shaken up while diving back to second base on a pickoff attempt. The Cardinals said team doctors determined that Holliday did not sustain a concussion. Dodgers outfielder Yasiel Puig then left in the eighth, five innings after he was hit on the left hand by a Kelly pitch. Both players were considered day to day. INDIANS SWEEP TIGERS Corey Kluber came within an out of a complete game, striking out 10 to lift visiting Cleveland over Detroit, 6-2, in the opener of a doubleheader. Drew VerHagen (0-1) allowed three runs and five hits, lasting five innings in his major league debut. In the second game, Carlos Santana hit a tiebreaking, bases-clearing double with two outs in the ninth inning, lifting the Indians to a 5-2 win that sealed the sweep. DIAMONDBACKS 9, CUBS 3 Miguel Montero hit a three-run double in the fifth, Paul Goldschmidt added a two-run homer, and host Arizona beat Chicago. Wade Miley (6-6) went seven innings, allowing three runs and seven hits, striking out seven and walking one. The Diamondbacks had seven runs, five earned, and eight hits against Cubs starter Travis Wood (7-9). Advertisement GIANTS 5, MARLINS 3 Tim Hudson pitched into the eighth inning and got the run support he needed as visiting San Francisco beat Miami. Hunter Pence drove in two runs for the Giants, and Pablo Sandoval added three hits. Marlins starter Henderson Alvarez (6-5) left with a bruised left shin after being hit by a grounder by Joe Panik in the third. RAYS 5, TWINS 1 David Price pitched eight scoreless innings to win his fifth straight start as visiting Tampa Bay beat Minnesota. Price (10-7) gave up four hits, matching his season low, and had nine strikeouts to increase his major-league-leading total to 173.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Jake McGee got two outs for his eighth save in nine chances, completing a five-hitter. Phil Hughes (10-6) allowed 5 runs and 11 hits in seven innings.PHILLIES 2, BRAVES 1 Cole Hamels held the Braves to four hits through seven innings, and Jimmy Rollins hit a two-run homer as visiting Philadelphia edged Atlanta. Hamels (4-5) won for the second time in three starts, giving up one run, striking out nine and walking none. Jonathan Papelbon earned his 21st save in 23 chances. BLUE JAYS 4, RANGERS 1 Marcus Stroman pitched seven shutout innings to snap a three-start winless streak, and Toronto defeated Texas at home. Stroman (5-2) allowed four hits, all singles, walked none and struck out five. Aaron Loup finished for his third save in six chances. Rangers outfielder Alex Rios left after spraining his right ankle on a swing in the first inning, and the team said X-ray results were negative. RED SOX 2, ROYALS 1 Rubby De La Rosa pitched seven solid innings, and Mike Napoli hit a tiebreaking home run to lift host Boston to a victory over Kansas City. It was the sixth win in seven games for the Red Sox. Danny Duffy (5-10) allowed two runs, one earned, and six hits in six and two-thirds innings. Koji Uehara got his 20th save in 22 chances. NATIONALS 8, BREWERS 3 Matt Garza was knocked out in the first inning of his shortest major league start, and Ryan Zimmerman and Wilson Ramos each drove in three runs to lead host Washington over Milwaukee. Advertisement Garza (6-7) faced eight batters and got one out, allowing four singles, a double and two walks in the shortest of his 211 big-league starts dating to 2006. Tanner Roark (9-6) gave up one run and six hits in seven innings with five strikeouts. In his first full season as a starter, he has allowed two earned runs or fewer in 13 of 19 outings. PIRATES 3, ROCKIES 2 Jordy Mercer doubled home Neil Walker with one out in the bottom of the 11th inning to lift host Pittsburgh past Colorado. Jared Hughes (5-2) earned the win after escaping a two-on, one-out jam in the 11th by catching a line drive from Charlie Blackmon and turning it into a double play. WHITE SOX 4, ASTROS 3 Tyler Flowers had three hits and drove in the go-ahead run in the fifth inning to lead host Chicago to a victory over Houston. White Sox starter Hector Noesi (4-7) gave up three runs in six innings. Zach Putnam earned his third save, the second in two nights. Dallas Keuchel (9-6) allowed 4 runs and 12 hits in five innings. A version of this article appears in print on July 20, 2014, on Page SP4 of the New York edition with the headline: Cardinals Deliver Rarity for Greinke: Second Straight Loss.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »