Advertisement By PHIL BERGER and  Tony (The Tiger) Lopez is a world champion again. It wasn't easy. Lopez, a former junior lightweight champion from Sacramento, stalked Joey Gamache, the World Boxing Association lightweight champion, for 10 rounds, throwing his right hand at Gamache's moving figure with mixed results. But in the 11th round Lopez first slowed and then dropped Gamache. Lopez slammed one thudding right after another off Gamache's head. Gamache, the champion from nearby Lewiston, Me., wilted with each blow, falling finally onto the seat of his brown leather loincloth trunks. Gamache Struggles Gamache's eyes were glazed -- his left eye was nearly swollen shut -- as he made it to both knees by the count of 6. He struggled to his feet at 8, staggering backward. The referee, Jim Santa, looked into Gamache's eyes and waved an end to the match at 40 seconds of the 11th round. "I wanted to knock him out, but I didn't know if I was going to do it," said Lopez. "My brother Sal, who trains me, started hollering at me in the 8th round -- told me I better start picking up the pace. Going into the 11th, he said I needed the last two rounds and needed them big. I decided to come out and throw with power. He was tired. I felt him tiring. It was just a matter of connecting." Advertisement Lopez's late surge came in the nick of time. After nine rounds, the 29-year-old Lopez trailed on the scorecards of all three judges. Going into the 11th round, he was behind on the scorecards of two of the judges -- Julio Roldan (96-95) and Stu Winson (97-93). The other judge, Albert Wilensky had the fight even after 10 rounds, 95-95. Crowd Is Pro-Gamache Advertisement For the partisan crowd of 7,106 in the Cumberland County Civic Center, Lopez's late punching display ruined what started out promisingly for Gamache, the statewide hero. Through the early rounds, the 26-year-old Gamache proved an elusive target as Lopez walked forward looking to unload his right. Gamache was nimble on his feet at that juncture and he managed to elude Lopez's right hand. As Gamache circled the challenger, he consistently beat Lopez to the punch, mostly with left hooks.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But Lopez had the heavier hands and what he landed managed to do damage. He opened a cut beneath Gamache's left brow in the fourth round, and deepened a discoloration beneath Gamache's right eye that he had coming into the fight. By late in the fight, Gamache was also bleeding from his nose. Blind to the Blows Through the first half of the bout, Gamache's eyes were not a problem, but by the end of the bout the left eye had become swollen and Gamache claimed he did not could see Lopez's incoming blows. Afterward, Gamache's co-manager Johnny Bos faulted his fighter's cornermen for letting Gamache go out for the 11th round with his damaged eye. When the eye was first cut in the second round, Santa ruled it was the result of a butt. Bos asserted that if the fight had been stopped after 10 rounds because of a cut caused by a butt, the referee would have been obliged to go to the scorecards and Gamache would still be champion. But that was hindsight, and Gamache voiced no regrets about continuing the battle. Wearing sunglasses at the postfight news conference, he said: "I got beat by a better fighter tonight. Physically he was stronger and I got dictated into his fight. I abandoned boxing him. Which was my downfall." With his victory, Lopez is now 41-3-1 with 29 knockouts. Gamache lost for the first time as a professional. His record is now 29-1 with 18 knockouts. Lopez's next defense is expected to be against South African fighter Dingan Thobela early next year. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 25, 1992, on Page 8008005 of the National edition with the headline: BOXING; Lopez's Lightweight Title Hits Home for Gamache.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »