Advertisement By JAIME DIAZ and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES Paul Azinger went from the spectacular to the unsteady, while Fred Couples kept a steady level of phlegmatic proficiency as the two young stars remained tied for the lead going into the final round of the Doral Ryder Open. Azinger and Couples, both 30 years old, each shot two-under-par 70 at Doral's Blue Monster today to post 54-hole totals of 12-under-par 204. But what looked like a mano a mano early in the day changed to what could be a calvary charge through the Doral's water hazard line fairways today. One stroke back is Mike Reid, who birdied the final three holes. Two more strokes behind at nine under par are Tim Simpson, Bob Tway and Tom Purtzer. Chance for a Runaway ''We really had a chance to make it a two-man race,'' said Azinger, who bogeyed the final hole. ''But now everybody on the board has a chance.'' Advertisement Early in the day, Azinger, the PGA Tour's leading money winner, looked like he might make a runaway of the tournament. He took a three-stroke lead over Couples when he opened with an eagle and two birdies on the first five holes. Advertisement But Azinger's confidence in his swing began to plummet after a series of pulled iron shots, including an 8-iron to the 163-yard ninth hole that missed the green to the left and led to a bogey that reduced his lead to one. ''I had the Yankee Doodles all day,'' said Azinger, the winner of this year's first event, the Tournament of Champions. ''When I hit that one on the ninth, I really didn't know why. After that, I couldn't help but steer it a little bit.'' Couples, who won his first tournament since 1987 last week in Los Angeles, played a steady round that included three birdies and a bogey. ''I didn't hit many great shots,'' Couples said. ''But I didn't make any mistakes.'' Discovering a Purpose Couples's victory last week has prompted speculation from several players that the long-hitting golfer may be on the threshold of realizing his immense talent. ''Fred recently seems to have found some sort of purpose,'' Reid said. ''I think he is just starting to come into his own.''  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Azinger, who has played with Couples for the last two rounds, agreed. ''It all looks so easy for Freddy,'' Azinger said. ''But it's hard to know what makes Freddy tick. Nothing bothers him. I think Freddy is going to be the guy to beat tomorrow.'' Couples appreciates the compliments, but feels he is being overrated until he adds considerably to his career total of four victories. Advertisement ''I've got a long way to go before I'm any good at all,'' he said. Couples acknowledges that there have been times when a lack of concentration has kept him from playing his best. Lots to View ''My attention span a lot of times is not four and a half hours,'' he said. ''I don't know how you get concentration like Jack Nicklaus. I've been trying not to watch other things on the golf course. I don't think it gets boring out there. I just think there are a lot of things to look at.'' Before winning at Los Angeles, Couples had a reputation for making crucial mistakes in the final stages of tournaments. His most painful experience occurred in September at the Ryder Cup, when he missed the 18th green with a 9-iron and lost his singles match to lightly regarded Christy O'Conner 1 up. ''That was a lot harder to take than I thought it would be,'' Couples said. ''But I learned a lot from it. It's not fun when you beat yourself.'' Statistically, the edge among the leaders going into today's round is held by Azinger. His fourth-round scoring average for the year is slightly lower than Couples's, 70.83 to 71.00, and he has five victories in the last three years to Couples's two. Reid, who has won twice in 13 years on tour, has a fourth-round scoring average this year of 72.67, including a 77 at the Bob Hope Chrysler Classic when he began the final round two shots out of the lead. ''Paul hasn't received the credit he deserves,'' said Simpson, who was three shots off the lead after a 66. ''I think he has been the best player in the world over the last three years. Curtis Strange has won two U.S. Opens, but I don't think he has had the three years of consistency that Paul has had.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 4, 1990, on Page 8008010 of the National edition with the headline: GOLF;   Two Share Lead But Not by Much.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »