Advertisement By JOE LAPOINTE and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES For the sixth time in eight seasons, the Edmonton Oilers are in the Stanley Cup finals, opening the four-of-seven-game series Tuesday night at Boston against the Bruins. But the stature of this team is somewhat different than it was in previous years, when Edmonton won the championship four times in the Wayne Gretzky era of the 1980's. This time, the Oilers are underdogs, with Gretzky having finished his second season as a Los Angeles King. Although Edmonton has Stanley Cup veterans such as Mark Messier, Kevin Lowe, Jari Kurri and Glenn Anderson, the Oilers will play a team that accumulated the best regular-season record in the N.H.L. The Bruins finished first in the Adams division with 101 points. The Oilers were second in the Smythe (and fifth in the league) with 90. Advertisement Work Is Cut Out ''That's fine,'' said Mark Messier, the Edmonton captain, of the Oilers' underdog role. ''Boston's obviously going to be favored. They had a great year. We know we've got our hands full. Advertisement ''We started the year out pretty unsure about what was going to happen. We've made great strides to get to this point. We have a meeting every year that our goal is the Stanley Cup. We don't feel satisfied by any means.'' The Oilers, who were eliminated last season in the first round by Gretzky and the Kings, clinched the Campbell Conference title Saturday night with an 8-4 victory over the Blackhawks in the sixth game of their series. The Oilers led by 3-1 after one period and by 7-1 after two. Chicago, which had won two of the first three games, seemed to show the fatigue in its 20th playoff game in 39 days. ''They had exceptional leadership that resurfaced from their Stanley Cup teams,'' Mike Keenan, the Chicago coach, said of the Oilers. ''We felt we were ready, but, obviously, their poise and confidence showed up. Ours was not equal to theirs by any stretch of the imagination.''  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Shadow for Superstars One key to the Oilers' victory was the play of Esa Tikkanen, a forward who is often assigned as a shadow to check opposing superstars. In the previous series, against Los Angeles, he held an injury-weakened Gretzky to one goal in four games. Against Chicago, he began shadowing Denis Savard after Game 3, the last Chicago victory. In the series finale, Tikkanen held Savard to two shots on goal and no points and scored the first goal of the game, on a breakaway, while short-handed. John Muckler, coach of the Oilers, said late Saturday night that he didn't know who, if anyone, Tikkanen would shadow against the Bruins. Possible candidates include Cam Neely, their best forward, or Raymond Bourque, their best defenseman. No Strangers Here ''We know what it takes to win,'' said Muckler, in his first season as head coach after years as a top aide to Glen Sather. ''We've been through it before.'' Advertisement The Oilers are 12-5 in the playoffs, the Bruins are 12-4. Lowe, a team elder, conceded that the Bruins ''seem to have an extremely talented hockey club, well put together, and they are on a roll.'' ''But we skate well, we are sound team, we have good goaltending and we are pretty discipline, especially at this time of the year,'' Lowe said. ''The key to the Bruins is that they much better than they ever have, and that is one of our strengths. So we match up pretty well. It will be interesting.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 14, 1990, on Page C00006 of the National edition with the headline: Oilers Aren't Sore Underdogs.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »