Advertisement By AL HARVIN and  The Chicago Bulls make their first appearance in the New York area Friday night with a game against the Nets in the Meadowlands. And although the three-time defending champions might appear in disarray without Michael Jordan -- their 8-8 record includes a loss to the last-place Philadelphia 76ers Wednesday night -- Nets Coach Chuck Daly thinks otherwise. "That was a back-to-back, and who wins back-to-back except maybe New York and Phoenix," said Daly, referring to the fact that the Bulls played on consecutive nights, beating the L.A. Clippers in Chicago on Tuesday night before flying into Philadelphia and getting knocked off by the struggling Sixers, the only team doing worse than New Jersey in the Atlantic Division. "I see where Chicago forced 27 turnovers though," said Daly. "They're very tough defensively. They're a good basketball team. They execute very well. They're very well coached. They've gotten more team oriented, getting all the people involved in all the little things, scoring, slipping the screens." In the absence of Jordan, Scottie Pippin has taken over as the scoring leader, averaging 20.7 points a game, but three other players are also averaging double figures: B. J. Armstrong (19.5 p.p.g.), Horace Grant (15.9), and Toni Kukoc (14.1). Advertisement Grant missed the last two games with flu symptoms, but is probable for Friday night's game in Byrne Arena. Daly is impressed with the poise of Kukoc, the second-round pick of the Bulls in the 1990 draft, who just joined the team this season. Advertisement Daly saw a lot of Kukoc on the Croatian team that lost to his Dream Team in the 1992 Olympics in Barcelona, Spain, when Daly was coaching both Jordan and Pippen. The Kukoc Factor There were reports of animosity between Kukoc and the two Bulls, but Daly didn't think there was any conflict, or carryover. "I just think they wanted to demonstrate how good they were -- it was a pride factor," Daly said. "You keep hearing about a great player. It's a normal challenge." Daly thinks Kukoc, three times the European player of the year, is a terrific player. "I think in Europe he was like Drazen Petrovic on their team, they guy they go to, who controls the ball controls the scoring," Daly said. "I think he's adjusting to 1) the N.B.A. and 2) the system. I happen to think he was the perfect player for that team -- hand in glove -- because he really likes to pass. He's a multi-position player. He can shoot 3's."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Daly also thinks the rest of the Bulls players have been underrated as well, since they had been playing in the shadow of Jordan. "Absolutely, and the coaching, too," said Daly. "I don't think Phil Jackson has ever been named coach of the year. Right?" Daly said several days ago that he wouldn't be surprised if the Bulls made the Eastern Conference finals again. He stuck by that assessment today. "I'll say it right here and now and you can mark it down," said Daly, whose Nets are 6-11 and trying to stay ahead of Philadelphia. "I think they're going to get better and better, and don't count them out from being a finalist in the East. Name me three or four better teams? Advertisement "I think New York's got it a bit better but other than that I don't know," said Daly. "Right now Atlanta's got a heck of a record, doing a great job. They beefed up their bench. They're doing a heck of a job but, who else, this year." Certainly not the Nets. They caught a break on Tuesday night when Celtics center Robert Parish was hurt in pre-game warm-ups and Chris Morris came back from injury to lead New Jersey scoring with 20 points in the 117-90 Nets rout. Now the Nets get the Bulls, minus the challenge of facing Jordan. "We used to like that," Daly said, "but now all we want to do is win a ball game. We've got different levels of achievement right now." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 10, 1993, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: BASKETBALL; The Jordan-less Bulls Aren't Seen as Pushover.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »