Advertisement By DAVE ANDERSON and  By the (good or bad?) luck of the Olympic blind draw, heavyweight Danell Nicholson and superheavyweight Larry Donald of the United States team advanced today to quarterfinal showdowns with two of Cuba's best boxers that may well determine the gold medalist in each division. Nicholson, a smooth 6-foot-3-inch, 201-pound slugger from Chicago, will oppose Felix Savon, who has dominated amateur boxing for nine years, on Monday after having outpointed Zeljko Mavrovic of Croatia, 9-6. Donald, will go against Roberto Balado, the reigning two-time world amateur champion, after having stopped a bloodied Nikolai Koulpine of the Unified Team in two rounds at the Pavello Club Joventut. "I believe our bout will be for the gold medal, most definitely," Donald said of his three-round match with Balado on Tuesday. "It's a shame one of us has to lose; hopefully, it won't be me." Advertisement Balado outpointed Tom Glesburg of Canada, 16-2, before the imposing 6-5 Savon, who hasn't lost since 1988, dominated Bert Teuchert of Germany, 11-2, in the evening session. Advertisement "I hope this will be the biggest upset ever," Joe Byrd, the United States coach, said of Nicholson's bout Monday with Savon. "If Savon tries to throw that right hand, we'll step to the left and counter." Poetry, Too Donald, the latest Muhammad Ali pretender, is a bulky 25-year-old spouter of bad poetry, but at 6-3 and 220 pounds he moves easily in the ring. The Cincinnatian conquered Balado on March 14 in Tampa in the non-title world championship challenge, 16-14, but was outpointed by the 23-year-old Cuban last year in Germany. "I'm glad I'm fighting Balado next," Donald said. "I want there to be no doubt as to who's the best." Donald left no doubt that he was better than the burly Koulpine, whose bloody right eyelid prompted the referee to wave a halt to the match before the third round started. During the second round, Donald earned an 8-0 edge in points that the judges agreed upon in punching their computer scorecards.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Larry was hitting down on the Russian's headgear," Byrd said. "That's how he got cut." Now 23 years old, the 5-11, 210-pound Balado grew up in Havana sparring with Teofilo Stevenson, the three-time Olympic gold medalist and Cuban boxing idol who also inspired the 24-year-old Savon, who has won 138 of his 147 bouts. Griffin and Byrd Advance Two other Americans also advanced to the quarterfinals: Montell Griffin and Chris Byrd, a son of the coach. Griffin, a chunky 22-year-old light-heavyweight from Chicago, spun Yo Da Ko of South Korea into submission, 16-1, but annoyed his coach by showboating in the final round. Byrd was concerned that the judges might hold that not only against Griffin in his next bout, with Torsten May of Germany, but also against the other American boxers. "You won't see that again," Griffin said. "I shouldn't have done that. I should have kept my head. I was beating him easy the straight way." Advertisement Byrd, a slim 21-year-old left-handed middleweight from Flint, Mich., is the youngest of the coach's five boxing sons. Preferring to counterpunch off the ropes, he outpointed Alexander Lebziak of the Unified Team, 16-7. He will oppose Ahmed Dino of Algeria next. "I made the guy miss and punched back," Byrd said. "I might stay on the ropes the rest of the tournament." Meanwhile, in disciplinary action by the International Amateur Boxing Assocation, Paul Griffin, an Irish featherweight, was suspended for one year and put on probation for the following two years because of an outburst after a first-round loss Wednesday. After the ring doctor stopped his fight with Steven Chunga of Zambia in the first round, Griffin cursed the referee, kicked his mouthpiece out of the ring and argued with the judges before being restrained. "Tomorrow we will decide if the Spanish boxer Jose Ortega deserves to be suspended for his attitude toward the referee," said Karl-Heinz Wehr, the association president, alluding to Ortega, a heavyweight, putting his hands on the referee following today's loss to David Tua of New Zealand. "We are not prepared to let anyone fool around with them." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 1, 1992, on Page 1001034 of the National edition with the headline: BARCELONA: BOXING; In This Corner, Cuba; In That Corner, Hope.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »