Advertisement By FILIP BONDY Kristi Yamaguchi has gone hip-hop. Her on-ice costume is slinky. Her balletic leaps are jazzy jumps. "I'm just learning this sort of routine, so it's a little embarrassing," Yamaguchi said yesterday, before the Women's Sports Foundation Awards dinner in Manhattan. "It's not what I'm used to. From one extreme to the other." Yamaguchi is a professional figure skater now, with serious show-biz obligations. The world professional championships are in Landover, Md., on Dec. 12, and the Olympic gold medalist will be expected to perform there with great flair and melodrama. Classical lines will not be enough. Not in this company. "My idols will be there," she said. "Names like Brian Boitano and Katarina Witt." The demands, and the decisions, used to be much easier for United States figure skaters. If they won a medal, these world-class athletes would join the Ice Capades in their prime and stop doing triple jumps as quickly as possible. New Rules Now, however, there is serious professional competition, and liberalized Olympic eligibility rules. The 1994 Winter Olympic Games in Lillehammer, Norway, are only 16 months away. Yamaguchi, who is 21 years old, faces challenges from acrobatic teen-agers. Advertisement She must decide by Feb. 19, 1993, whether she wants to end her budding professional career and regain her Olympic eligibility in time for Lillehammer. Advertisement She admits that she will take a good hard look at her potential opponents before making that decision, because a disappointing finish will not help her future. In the meantime, Yamaguchi is not allowing her elegant form of athleticism to erode. She intends to train for four solid weeks with her coach, Christy Kjarsgaard Ness, and her choreographer, Sandra Bezic, before performing at Landover. Yamaguchi, from Fremont, Calif., will skate to Chopin in the technical routine, then change to an uptempo hop for her artistic program. "I'm still doing five triples in my artistic routine," she said. "I'm going to keep the skills up." She will be watched, by both insiders and casual fans. Yamaguchi became one of the most visible athletes in the world, after her telegenic performance in Albertville, France, at the Winter Olympics last February. Instant Recognition  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "I never realized before what the Olympics would mean," she said. "I could still go anywhere, but I was recognized a lot more." There were plenty of morning and talk-show opportunities. She had a harder time than expected gaining post-Olympic endorsements, but Yamaguchi would never say that might have been because she is of Japanese-American heritage. The endorsement bonanza never arrived, yet she is doing better. Two companies have signed up, and a third one is in the works. "I just wanted to focus on my training and not worry about everything else," she said. At the Women's Sports Foundation awards, where track star Jackie Joyner-Kersee and golfer Pat Bradley were named Sportswomen of the Year and former Olympic gold medalist Carol Heiss Jenkins was one of five athletes inducted into the Women's Sports Hall of Fame, Yamaguchi remembered a time where sponsors were not an issue. Needed Help Advertisement "The Sports Foundation gave me a grant back in 1989, and it was enough to buy some skates and a costume," said Yamaguchi, who had been named Up-and-Coming Artistic Athlete of the Year by the foundation in 1988. "That was all I was worried about, then," she said. "They were great to me and a lot of other women trying to get somewhere." For Yamaguchi, the road led to giant success at Albertville. If she wins at Landover, the path may well meander toward Lillehammer. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 6, 1992, on Page B00012 of the National edition with the headline: Yamaguchi Ponders Olympic Comeback.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »