Advertisement By JOE LAPOINTE The Islanders' main office is down the Hempstead Turnpike, about a mile from the Jets' Long Island headquarters. While the Jets' record (1-4) is nothing to celebrate, the hockey team can see one positive aspect of the football team's bleak experience so far this year. "It just proves that exhibition games don't mean much," Al Arbour, the Islanders' coach, said, alluding to the Jets' 5-0 preseason mark. The Islanders, despite winning only three of nine exhibition games, will bring renewed optimism to Byrne Meadowlands Arena tonight when they play the first of 84 regular-season games, against the Devils. "We're a better team than we've shown," said Steve Thomas, one of five Islanders who scored at least 30 goals last season. "No question we can put the puck in the net. It's just that keeping it out is the biggest thing on our minds." A Lot of Revamping Advertisement Compared with a year ago, the Islanders seem much improved. Trades for high-scoring forwards and the signings of key draft choices on defense have changed more than half the roster from 12 months ago. The front office is also revamped, with local management promoting a "New Ice Age" after several seasons of glacial regression. Advertisement Last season's trades altered the personality of the team from a defensive-oriented outfit to more of a shooting gallery. Snipers Thomas, Benoit Hogue and Pierre Turgeon arrived to join Derek King and Ray Ferraro. Turgeon, Ferraro and King all had 40 goals. Thomas and Hogue had 30 each. But on defense, the Islanders, who finished in fifth place in the Patrick Division, gave up 299 goals -- only four teams gave up more in what was then a 22-team National Hockey League. "We were far too willing to play a run-and-run game," Ferraro said. "We have to cut down on our goals-against. We have to remind everyone that there are a couple of nets out there." Figuring Things Out Arbour, a former defenseman himself, put numbers on it. "We have to cut down on our goals-against, get down to 260 or 250 or better," he said. To achieve this, General Manager Don Maloney and Arbour are rebuilding the defense. Darius Kasparaitis, the first-round draft choice, who signed last week, joins his fellow defenseman Vladimir Malakhov as the team's first two players from the former Soviet Union. (Malakhov, recovering from a groin injury, is expected to resume practice this week.)  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Scott Lachance, an American defenseman who joined the team after the Winter Olympics, is technically a rookie, and a very promising one. Returning are veterans Jeff Norton, who signed a new contract yesterday, Rich Pilon, Gary Nylund, Uwe Krupp and Tom Kurvers to form what could be a formidable core. Several veterans on both forward and defensive lines are likely to be showcased in the first few weeks while Maloney seeks a trade for a big forward, another element that is lacking. "We're in a position now to deal from strength," Maloney said. It is unlikely that they would trade Patrick Flatley, the right wing who is the captain and conscience of the team, or Marty McInnis, another former United States Olympian who has moved from the wing to center. But David Volek, a talented and inconsistent wing, might draw interest on the market. Brian Mullen, a former Ranger, arrives from San Jose to fill a checking role. Mick Vukota, a low-scoring, frequent fighter, is back to play the heavy. Carrying Extra Load Advertisement Although teams can dress only 18 skaters plus two goalies, Arbour is likely to carry 25 or 26 on the roster, at least at first, in part because of a hectic schedule. The season runs four games and two weeks longer than it used to and the Islanders have one of the worst schedules, especially in the first half. In October, they open with four games on the road. In November, they play three games at home and eight on the road. During a nine-day stretch in early December, they play in Tampa, Fla., in Chicago, on Long Island (against Winnipeg), in Oklahoma City (against Edmonton) and in Dallas (against St. Louis). The Islanders are in Montreal on Dec. 23 and in St. Louis on New Year's Eve. Arbour is the only management figure remaining from 12 months ago. He will will be 60 years old on Nov. 1 and said he wasn't sure over the summer that he would return for the final season of his contract. Asked if he thought of resigning, Arbour replied: "Yeah, I did. Let's just say it lasted a few days." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 6, 1992, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: Islanders Take First-and-10 Approach.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »