Advertisement By MALCOLM MORAN One day before its bitter dispute with the National Collegiate Athletic Association could have led to the interruption or cancellation of college basketball games across the country, the Black Coaches Association agreed yesterday to postpone a planned boycott. The urging of Representative Cardiss Collins, Democrat of Illinois, and the intervention of the Justice Department as a potential arbitrator convinced organizers to continue discussions with the N.C.A.A. The key point of contention was the vote at the recent convention here against the restoration of a 14th basketball scholarship for Division I men's teams. Both the Black Coaches Association and the larger National Association of Basketball Coaches had vigorously supported the proposal on the ground that an extra scholarship would provide educational opportunities for hundreds of disadvantaged athletes. Cedric Dempsey, the new executive director of the N.C.A.A., said this evening that he had not yet been informed of a course of discussion by the Justice Department or any other Federal agency, but was encouraged by the postponement. "At least we're past the immediate crisis," Dempsey said. "I was very concerned that we would have been dealing with the damaging ramifications of a boycott, which would have delayed a discussion on what the issues are." The Black Coaches Association had tentatively planned to target nine games today, the anniversary of Dr. Martin Luther King's birth and five days after the vote at the 88th N.C.A.A. convention. While leaders in the organization did not specify the location or form of their protests, the possibilities had ranged from small gestures, to walkouts by coaches, to the involvement of teams. Advertisement Rudy Washington, the executive director of the Black Coaches Association and the coach at Drake University, said at a news conference in Washington that the decision had been reached partly as a result of the urging of Congresswoman Collins. The Congresswoman said yesterday that she had sent a letter on Tuesday, the day following the vote, encouraging the Black Coaches Association to allow the Congressional Black Caucus to mediate the dispute. The congresswoman subsequently contacted the Justice Department. Eventually the department's Community Relations Service agreed to look into the dispute and possibly become a mediator. Advertisement "These coaches are laying their reputations and livelihoods, as well as the hopes of young students, on the line," the congresswoman said when reached this afternoon. "People say that the students would be hurt. But so would the men who have taken these drastic steps, and that points out the total insensitivity of the N.C.A.A. I know this first hand. I've dealt with the N.C.A.A. on gender-equity issues. They promise to do something, and they come back with a hollow response."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Dempsey maintained that delegates to the recent convention had shown considerable sensitivity, particularly in the resolution that called for a reexamination, and possible alteration or delay, of controversial academic eligibility requirements scheduled to go into effect in 1995. "It provided an opportunity for the association to look at what has been accomplished in the reforms and look at what might have been the trade offs," Dempsey said. "One of the tradeoffs may be that it means restricted access to minority athletes. That's a strong sensitivity." Special Session Called Unlikely Dempsey said that a special session of the N.C.A.A. membership, a gathering that took place six times within a 14-year period from 1973 through 1987, was unlikely. The emphasis on the conversations, he felt, would be to create a package of legislation, before the June deadline, that could give the coaches the additional scholarships but provide cost-conscious administrators with financial cuts in other areas. George Blaney, the president of the National Association of Basketball Coaches, hoped that the discussions would be helped by his organization's increased emphasis in recent years on being a constructive part of the rule-making process. "It always seems basketball, because it is so visible and coaches are successful, becomes a target," Blaney said. "That is where the frustration of the coaches is. That is why we made ourselves available to every committee that would include us. "It takes time to prove yourself as a viable organization," Blaney said. "We haven't been that. We've been individual coaches with good ideas. It still takes time for administrators, athletic directors, conference commissioners and everyone else to understand that this group can solve some problems, that we're the people in the trenches." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 15, 1994, on Page 1001029 of the National edition with the headline: COLLEGES; Black Coaches Agree to Delay Basketball Boycott.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »