Advertisement By WILLIAM C. RHODEN NEARLY an hour after the Jets had defeated Philadelphia in the teams' final preseason game, the Eagles' locker room, though half empty, was charged with a distinctive, positive energy. The Eagles had dropped a 22-13 decision, but the players seemed oblivious to the loss and their 2-3 preseason record. Most of the conversations revolved around the season opener with New Orleans on Sept. 6 and an optimism that the battle-hardened Eagles, who have been on the verge of great things, might actually have the pieces in place this year. Beyond any words spoken, the room was filled with an aura of confidence. There was a sense that the Eagles players, with no particular cause for optimism, had made a spiritual connection with one another, and that there could be little question as to exactly the source of that connection. Jerome Brown, the gregarious defensive tackle, was the light of the Eagles until his death earlier this summer at age 27. Brown was a 6-foot-2-inch, 295-pound defensive tackle who died in a car accident on June 25. Advertisement His stall in the Eagles' locker room has become a shrine: nine pairs of athletic shoes are neatly lined on the floor; his helmet is neatly placed in his shoulder pads; a medley of smaller pads are neatly arranged on a shelf, and 10 T-shirts are hung on hangers -- four on the far left, six on the far right. In the middle of the stall stand Brown's jersey in a frame and his caricature with the inscription "Where Eagles Soar." Advertisement "Sometimes it hurts when I walk by it," said Seth Joyner, the All-Pro outside linebacker and Brown's closest friend on the team. "Then sometimes I'll tap on his locker just before I go out to draw power from it." In a practical sense, if the Eagles this season should win their first Super Bowl, it will be because Randall Cunningham, their scrambling quarterback, finally silences his critics and leads the team to the mountaintop, because Herschel Walker proves that he hasn't lost his feel -- and heart -- for the game, because the aging defensive line bludgeons opposing quarterbacks into submission. But for a franchise that has been torn by deep-seated divisions between players and management, Brown's death may inspire each side to pull together for just one glorious campaign. Eagles players have already dedicated the season to Brown, and the team has asked the N.F.L. for permission to have his No. 99 placed on the silver wings of the Eagles helmets. The only problem with this sort of tribute is the risk that the grief-stricken team will become so emotionally drained that it unexpectedly runs out of gas. It already happened to Joyner. He was competing in "American Gladiators," an action television game show, when he was told of Brown's death.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. He said he at first thought about quitting but then decided to stay and try to press on with the competition. "I was ahead after the first three events and only had three more to go, but I couldn't do it," he said. "I wanted to compete, but the grief just overcame everything. Advertisement "I was mad at Jerome, then I was hurt, then I felt guilty. I was mad because he wasn't here, hurt because he was like my brother, I felt guilty because I wasn't there with him. Maybe I could have said, 'Slow down, Jerome, the road's wet.' "Now I've accepted the fact that I can't feel guilty. I can't grieve forever and I can't be mad at Jerome because it was God's will." The resentment directed at the Eagles' management is still there, however. After Thursday's loss to the Jets, Joyner, echoing a theme of the last two years, spent 20 minutes discussing what he perceived as the organization's lack of commitment to winning. But Joyner also knows that if Philadelphia expects to contend for a championship, the players must rise above the dispute and find a way to reproduce the special feeling that Brown brought to the locker room. Joyner is the Eagles' conscience, Reggie White its anchor and Cunningham its personality. Brown was its presence. He set the agenda that Joyner and the other team leaders enforced. Now his spirit has been memorialized by a shrine in a locker room where the atmosphere is charged with a highly combustible mixture of emotions. The challenge of channeling that energy rests with the players. The extent to which they succeed in that could determine whether Jerome Brown's locker becomes a truly inspirational symbol this season, or an empty gesture of a franchise in retrograde. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 29, 1992, on Page 1001027 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; A Challenge To Soar Like An Eagle.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »