Advertisement By AL HARVIN In three seasons with the Jets, right guard Dwayne White has established quite a name for himself. At 6 feet 2 inches and 315 pounds, he has been nicknamed Road Grader, mostly for the help he has provided the Jets' running game and for his deployment as a blocking back in goal-line situations. "Last year, I was a candidate for All-Pro, but now it doesn't matter," said White, a seventh-round pick out of Alcorn State in 1990 and a starter since the last five games of his rookie season. "What matters now is how we end the season, the long haul. Some teams start off 5-0 and then break down. I'd rather start off slow and end strong than start off strong and taper off." Since the Jets' 5-0 preseason record, White and the rest of the offensive line have been less than impressive. The Jets have averaged 97.3 yards rushing a game, ninth in the American Football Conference and 18th in the National Football League. They have held the ball an average of 27 minutes 51 seconds, 11th and 24th, respectively, and they are in a deep 1-5 hole after the first six regular-season games. This is in marked contrast to last season, when the Jets were 3-3 at this point, averaging 149.3 yards rushing, with a conference high 34:28 time of possession. Advertisement What's so puzzling this season is that the Jets' offensive line came to camp on time, has stayed healthy and remains almost intact from last season. White and Dave Cadigan are still the guards, Irv Eatman and Jeff Criswell the tackles and Jim Sweeney the center. Shining and Dim Moments Advertisement All share the blame for the dropoff this season, but the going has been especially uphill for the Road Grader, according to Larry Beightol, the offensive-line coach. "Dwayne has had his very bright moments this year and then he's had some that haven't been," Beightol said. "He's kind of like the rest of us, kind of like me. I would say maybe I've had my glittering moments and then those that are not so bright." The 16 plays White missed against San Francisco were almost three times as many as White missed all of last season, when the Jets led the league in offensive plays with 1,059 and he sat out only six. He had no quarrel with his benching, however. "I got pulled out because of my play," said White, who was replaced by Roger Duffy, the backup center. "My play was sickening. I felt it was the right thing to do. If I can't help the team, then I should be pulled out. Give me some time to think about what I'm doing. I'm glad it happened. We don't have any prima donnas here."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Another source of pride for the offensive line last season was holding the opposition's pass rush to 33 sacks, the lowest Jets total since the 23 they allowed in the nine-game, strike-shortened 1982 season. Although they have allowed fewer than two a game this season, Beightol is not bragging yet. Looking at All Factors "It's not just the sacks," the coach said. "Sometimes it's the pressures, the hurries, making a guy throw before he is ready to throw. All of that has to be factored in. It's keeping your quarterback clean through the whole game." Beightol, a former offensive coordinator and offensive-line coach at San Diego under Dan Henning, is in his third year with the Jets. He comes across like a rough and gruff Marine drill instructor, and judging by their next three games, that's the kind of preparation the Jets might need. First comes Buffalo on Monday night at Giants Stadium, then Miami at home, followed by the Broncos at Denver. All those teams have winning records. Advertisement "It's time to turn it around; that's how I look at it," said Beightol, mindful that the Bills have not lost to the Jets since the 1987 season opener in Buffalo. "So what if they've beaten us nine in a row? It's time for the Jets to step up. I want our guys to go out there and assert themselves." That's the kind of feisty attitude White likes in his coach. "With losing there's always a little more tension," White said. "He always comes back hammering and saying, 'You've got to work on this or work on that this time.' He's always working to solve something. No, he hasn't given up on us and that's great. Because, if he can't give up on us, then how can we give up on ourselves?" EXTRA POINTS The Jets waived defensive back JOE FISHBACK in a move that makes a roster spot available for the possible reactivation of a tight end before Monday night's game. Both JOHNNY MITCHELL (shoulder), the first-round draft choice out of Nebraska, and KEN WHISENHUNT, the six-year pro currently on the physically-unable-to-perform list because of off-season knee surgery, are on the practice squad. Fishback, a third-string reserve behind BRIAN WASHINGTON and R. J. KORS at strong safety, was a Plan B pickup from Atlanta this season. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 21, 1992, on Page B00017 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL; Jets Finding It Hard To Get Offense in Gear.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »