Advertisement By CLIFTON BROWN On paper, it was expected to be an easy victory for the Knicks. But on the court, it was an immense struggle. Battling into overtime against an injury-riddled Cleveland Cavaliers team, the Knicks finally prevailed, 97-94, at Madison Square Garden. It took a 3-point jumper by Derek Harper with 6.7 seconds left in overtime to win it. With their 16th victory in their last 17 games, the Knicks (52-20) moved two games in front of the Atlanta Hawks, who lost to New Jersey, in the race for best record in the Eastern Conference. In addition, the Knicks can clinch their second consecutive Atlantic Division title by beating the Philadelphia 76ers tonight. For Pat Riley, it was the 696th coaching victory in the National Basketball Association, 10th on the career list, the same total as the only Knick coach to win N.B.A. titles, Red Holzman. Advertisement Harper's game-winner was a 25-footer from behind the key. Ironically, Harper missed a shot that could have won the game in regulation. Advertisement "I wanted another chance, no question," Harper said. "I'm glad I got it." Playing without Patrick Ewing, who fouled out with 25 seconds left in regulation, the Knicks took a 94-91 lead with three minutes to play in overtime, but they missed three opportunities to extend that advantage. Rolando Blackman missed two jumpers. Harper missed on a driving layup attempt. And Charles Smith, in a scene similar to the one during last year's playoff series against Chicago, had a follow-up attempt blocked by John Williams, then Smith had the ball stripped from his hands by Rod Higgins. Higgins finally tied the score at 94-94 by making a 24-foot 3-point jumper with 41.8 seconds to play. Charles Oakley then missed a jumper, Smith rebounded and had the ball knocked away by the former Knicks guard Gerald Wilkins, giving the Knicks possession with 27.9 seconds to go and setting up the final sequence. The Cavaliers have a long list of injured players. With no Mark Price and no Brad Daugherty, perhaps the Knicks believed the Cavaliers had no chance. The Knicks were wrong.  A Maximum Effort The Cavaliers were far from maximum strength, but they were determined to put forth a maximum effort. Daugherty (herniated disk), Larry Nance (arthroscopic right knee surgery) and John Battle (dislocated left elbow) are on the injured list. Price, Cleveland's All-Star point guard, skipped this game because he had the flu. Meanwhile, Cleveland's injury jinx continued during the first half. Less than a minute into the game, Tyrone Hill tumbled to the court after colliding with Anthony Bonner, suffering a bruised left knee. Hill was taken for precautionary X-rays and did not return.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Then in the second quarter, Jay Guidinger, Cleveland's backup center, fell to the court clutching his left knee after making a basket. Guidinger suffered a bruised knee, and he did not return either. That left Cleveland with just nine healthy players. But led by Wilkins, Cleveland almost pulled off a miraculous victory. "I know a lot of people expected us to just blow them off the face of the earth with their decimation," said Knicks Coach Pat Riley. "But Cleveland played well. I thought we played well too. We were fortunate to win." Advertisement Oakley played a season-high 51 minutes and scored a season-high 24 points, plus grabbing 15 rebounds. And Smith returned to action after an eight-game absence, wearing a cumbersome brace on his sore left knee. Harsh Words for Boo-Birds Smith played 20 minutes, did not score, missed all 4 of his shots and grabbed 5 rebounds. Smith was booed on several occasions, and Riley had harsh words for fans who were less than supportive. "A lot of people are being so unfair with him, it's ridiculous," Riley said of Smith. "He secured the center jump for us that got us the 3-point lead in the overtime. He had two major blocks in the overtime. He got the big second shot to give us possession." Both teams had a chance to win on their final possessions of regulation. The score was tied at 89 with 23.6 seconds to play and the Knicks set up a final shot. Harper took it. Running the clock down to five seconds before making his move, Harper made a right-left dribble move, then launched a 15-foot jumper from the left of the foul line. It was short. Chris Mills rebounded and called timeout with nine-tenths of a second to play. Inbounding at midcourt, the Cavaliers had little time to set up a good shot. But they got a decent one. Williams inbounded to Mills, who had broken free on the right baseline. Mills launched a 25-foot 3-pointer that would have won the game. But it was short. The Knicks breathed a sigh and headed for overtime. REBOUNDS The Knicks' Frontline Against Crime poster was given to all fans at the game. In an effort to curb the violent use of firearms in New York, the Knicks have initiated a program that includes a guns-for-merchandise exchange at Manhattan's Midtown South Precinct. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 1994, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: PRO BASKETBALL; Knicks Saved by Harper's Late 3-Pointer.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »