Advertisement By GEORGE VECSEY HAIR braided neatly, straight out of a Robert Herrick poem, a sprightly young ballgirl bent down for a loose tennis ball yesterday, only to encounter pure living terror, the Yank From Hell. Looming above her was the grim executioner himself, J. P. McEnroe Jr., wielding a tennis racquet at the offending ball but about to clobber her directly on the wrist. "Is this what Americans do to us on their Fourth of July?" the ballgirl may have thought as her life flashed before her eyes. "Do they sever the hands of innocent ballgirls over some long-ago revolution?" Fortunately, McEnroe stayed his weapon before doing any damage. He later smashed a free ball in the general direction of an umpire who had displeased him, and he fired his racquet into the moist soil of Center Court, digging up a divot. Advertisement Ultimately, Mac flung his own skinny body on the ground, and simulated death throes. For none of this was he penalized. It was just good old-fashioned professional macho-guy tennis. Advertisement Most of Junior's aggression was aural, as he and Andre Agassi grunted and groaned their way through three sets, with Agassi taking all of them, 6-4, 6-2, 6-3, to move into today's final with Goran Ivanisevic. This could have been the noisiest Wimbledon match in history, with both players exhaling loudly, straight from the diaphragm, on nearly every point. McEnroe was Dan Aykroyd, and Agassi was John Belushi in the never-before-released film "Samurai Tennis." They flailed imaginary swords, broke imaginary boards with flicks of their hands, emitting great screams. Aykroyd tried to slice Belushi, but Belushi stayed at the baseline and pounded the ball back. This match could have been covered blindfolded. A typical point sounded like this: "UGH! Oof! Argh! Aiee! No-o-o!" Usually, Agassi had crushed a two-handed backhand a foot past McEnroe. Neither of these mighty warriors was served a summons by the All England Club Decibel Police, which must surely exist, like the very real Hemline Truth Squads at the Henley rowing races. Women who show their kneecaps at Henley are summarily executed, or haughtily scolded, whichever is worse. You've got to have standards. Particularly for women.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Our two American samurai got away with the din because they are, to put it bluntly, men. By contrast, Monica Seles has been hounded by the furies in the past two weeks. Of course, Seles deserved all she got because she ducked Wimbledon last year, merely because she had a hairline shin fracture. From the moment Seles arrived this year, she was pursued by rented decibel meters, which were soon labeled "gruntometers." In her first match, Seles was measured at the noise level of the Hornsey Rise No. 14 bus grinding gears in a roundabout. The decibel journalists packed up their meters and went off to write an in-depth 250 words for the next edition. Out came Jimmy Connors, same court, grunting like the Concorde crashing into Big Ben. Nobody cared. In her semifinal match, Seles was cautioned twice by the chair umpire for emitting her bizarre two-tone squeaks, which sometimes attract nearby flocks of bats. After she lost to Seles, Martina Navratilova complained she could not hear the ball. Advertisement Since Seles got rid of her self-conscious Woody Woodpecker giggle a few years back, it is assumed she can just stop the squeaking on the court, but it may not be that simple. The whole point of women's tennis in the last generation has been that women are free to be powerful, competitive, sweaty, noisy jocks, just like the men. Yesterday, Steffi Graf pounded Seles, 6-2, 6-1, and even Graf thought Seles had been inhibited. "There was so much about the grunting, maybe it got to her," Graf said. Seles, still only 18, has had to think about ghastly warfare in her old home, what used to be Yugoslavia, she has had to sweat out a bomb threat here, and the swarms of gruntologists, plus the trauma of growing up rich and famous. "I thought I could really start today," Seles said, meaning she tried to tone down her noise. "I've been getting letters, and 95 percent of them say, 'Don't listen to them.' I'm in the middle now. I think McEnroe was grunting today." He sure was. It would be a shame if, through some reverse gamesmanship, they took away her squeak. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 5, 1992, on Page 8008001 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; Power Play For Women: Noises Off.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »