Advertisement  GOLF Six Straight Birdies and a Lead for Funk  Fred Funk, trying to win his first PGA Tour event, shot a course-record 62 that included six consecutive birdies and took a one-shot lead yesterday after three rounds of the Shell Houston Open at The Woodlands, Tex. Funk's 10-under-par round gave him a 14-under 202 total and broke the record of 63 set by Mike Sullivan in 1986 on the 7,042-yard Tournament Players Course. Fulton Allem, the defending champion, shot a six-under-par 66 for a 203. Funk, who started seven strokes off the 36-hold lead of Greg Twiggs, had four birdies on the front side and started his birdie run on the par-4 No. 11 hole. Twiggs faded to a 78. Funk's six consecutive birdies tied a season high on the PGA Tour held by Mark Calcavecchia at the Masters, Ed Fiori at the Phoenix Open and Gil Morgan at the Bob Hope Classic. The record for most consecutive birdies is eight. (AP) Neumann Leads by One: Liselotte Neumann shot a five-under 67 and forged a one-stroke lead over three other golfers heading into the final round of the $1.2 million Centel Classic in Tallahassee, Fla., the richest tournament on the L.P.G.A. tour. (AP) Victory for Southwick: Rick Southwick of Gardiners Bay won a pair of close matches to capture the William Richardson Memorial Tournament at the Seawane Club in Hewlett Harbor, L.I. Southwick eliminated the medalist, Ken Bakst of the Atlantic Club, one-up on the 19th hole in the morning semifinals. He then defeated John Doppelt of Fresh Meadow, also one-up in the final. The tournament is named in memory of a former golf writer of The New York Times. ROWING Yale Enjoys a Beautiful Day on the Lake Yale's rowing team had a successful day on Princeton's Lake Carnegie course yesterday. The Elis defeated Brown and Princeton in both the varsity and junior varsity heavyweight races, while the Yale lightweights overcame Princeton and Harvard to capture the varsity race and the Goldthwait Cup. The Yale junior varsity lightweights also won. With a prevailing tailwind that produced fast times for all the contests, all the winning times were under six minutes for the 2,000-meter distance. Dartmouth and Harvard Win: Dartmouth and Harvard, two of the more successful men's heavyweight crews this season, won again on the Charles River at Cambridge, Mass. The Green, enjoying its best season in decades, was an easy victor over Wisconsin and Massachusetts Institute of Technology for the Cochrane Cup. In women's rowing, Boston University defeated a strong Radcliffe crew by three lengths.  TENNIS Sanchez Beats Sabatini to Face Graf Third-seeded Arantxa Sanchez Vicario beat second-seeded Gabriela Sabatini, 3-6, 6-4, 6-4, yesterday in the semifinals of the Citizen Cup in Hamburg, Germany. Top-seeded Steffi Graf eliminated Anke Huber, 6-3, 6-0, in the other semifinal on the rain-soaked clay courts. Sanchez Vicario has won only 2 of her 13 matches against Graf, both at the French Open. (AP) TRACK AND FIELD Brooklyn Team Wins 3 Events Shellie Porter, Beverly Pierre and Falasha Spruiell led Boys and Girls of Brooklyn to three victories yesterday in girls events at the New York Relays in Downing Stadium, Randalls Island. The trio ran on the 400 (49 seconds), 800 (1 minute 41.21 seconds) and 1,600 (3:51.08) meter relays. Evander Childs of the Bronx took two boys relays, the 400 in 43.37 seconds and the sprint medley in 3:27.86. Bishop Ford of Brooklyn turned in the second-fastest time in the country this year in winning the 3,200-meter relay in 7:48.79. Sean James of Evander, who was on both winning foursomes and had a 1:53.65 800-meter split, and Violet Blake of Jamaica, who anchored her school twice to relay victories, were named the outstanding performers of the meet.  DOG SHOW Springer Spaniel Takes Top Honors Ch. Salilyn's Condor, an English springer spaniel, yesterday was gaited by Mark Threlfall to the best-in-show honors in a field of 3,794 dogs at the 51st fixture of the Bucks County Kennel Club in Tinicum Park in Erwinna, Pa. The spaniel is owned by Roger and Donna Herzig of Louisville, Ky., and Julie Gasow of Troy, Mich. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 3, 1992, on Page 8008010 of the National edition with the headline: Results Plus.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »