Advertisement By MICHAEL JANOFSKY It has long been the bane of track and field that leading athletes avoid one another as much as possible outside of major competitions like the Olympics and world championships and the qualifying meets to make those events. A generation ago, the British milers Sebastian Coe and Steve Ovett almost never ran against each other. Steve Cram, the British world-record holder in the mile, seldom entered the same race as Said Aouita of Morocco. During his 11-year, 122-victory streak in the 400-meter hurdles that ended in 1988, Edwin Moses seldom took on major challengers. More recently, the world's leading 100-meter sprinters have plotted diverging courses, yet less for the usual reasons of money and rankings than for emotional stability.  Feeling the Strain Carl Lewis and Leroy Burrell are good friends and training partners and want to keep it that way. Last summer, when they both ran world-record times in the 100, they found the strain of competing against each other more than either wanted to bear, which is one reason Burrell is running in the 100 tomorrow in the New York Games at Columbia and Lewis is long jumping. Advertisement Burrell, especially, found their most recent showdowns intense, particularly the last, the 100-meter final at the world championships in Tokyo last August. Two months before, at the national championships in New York, Burrell beat Lewis for a third consecutive time, with a world record of 9.90 seconds, to Lewis's second-place of 9.93. Advertisement In Tokyo, Lewis ended the streak in the most dramatic fashion possible, winning with his own world record of 9.86, to Burrell's second place of 9.88. They remain the fastest times in history, other than drug-aided performances. "It's emotionally draining on both ends, to the person who wins and the person who loses," Burrell said yesterday at a news conference. "Setting a world record is as emotional as losing a world record. If you won, it's wow. If you lose it, darn." The Demands of Success In the aftermath of Burrell's victory at the nationals, Lewis told him what to expect: incessant demands on his time, countless phone calls, an assortment of commercial opportunities, sleepless nights. "Everybody goes crazy," Lewis told him.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. By Tokyo, after two months in demand, Burrell was intent on proving himself the world's fastest human. Although he bettered his New York time in the final, losing and losing to Lewis were difficult to handle. As a result, the next day, he ran a poor second-round race on the 200-meter event and failed to advance to the semifinals. "I was running on an empty tank," Burrell said. "I was much more fit for the 200. I don't feel I represented myself very well." Working Out Together The overlay of friendship, with each other and with other members of the Santa Monica Track Club, has even led to practice sessions tailored to avoid competitiveness. Rather than run side by side, they conduct their workouts in a line, generally two meters apart. "It's not very competitive at all," Burrell said. "If you're keeping up, you're doing well." The intensity notwithstanding, Burrell said he preferred his biggest rivalry to be with someone he trains with, rather than an outsider like Davidson Ezinwa, the young Nigerian sprinter who has the fastest 100-meter time in the world this year, 9.91. "That would be harder," Burrell said. "I would sit at home, wondering what he's doing. I would think too much about what was going on in his training camp. I know what Carl is doing. Then, if I beat the guy, I would be much happier. But if I lost, I'd be more upset." SPIKE MARKS The New York Road Runners Club, which is organizing the meet, announced that ANA QUIROT, the 400-meter runner from Cuba, and RENALDO NEHEMIAH, a former world record holder in the 110-meter hurdles, withdrew because of injuries suffered on Thursday. SANDRA FARMER, usually a hurdler, has replaced Quirot; ARTHUR BLAKE will take Nehemiah's spot. To accommodate television, the meet will start at 9:30 A.M. and conclude around 2 P.M.. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 23, 1992, on Page 1001034 of the National edition with the headline: TRACK AND FIELD; Rivals Run in Opposite Directions.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »