Advertisement By GERALD ESKENAZI They were five wounded teams and they needed an infusion of energy. So five men who had never coached National Football League teams before were named this season to take over clubs: Bill Cowher at Pittsburgh, Dave Shula at Cincinnati, Dennis Green at Minnesota, Mike Holmgren at Green Bay and Bobby Ross at San Diego. With the season approaching the quarter point today for most clubs, these new coaches have produced mixed results. Did anyone expect that undefeated Pittsburgh would be leading the A.F.C. Central and that Cincinnati would be close behind. Or that Minnesota would be tied for the N.F.C. Central lead? Of course, San Diego, at 0-3, and Green Bay, at 1-2, have had rockier starts. But it is too early to eliminate them, although logic dictates they should be discounted. Took Over a So-So Team If these new coaches have something in common, it is their insistence on breaking with the past and motivating for the present. Advertisement "They've been practicing the same way here for 20 years," said Green, who came from Stanford. "It was my job to set a new tempo because the old obviously wasn't working any more." Advertisement Green inherited an also-ran team that struggled in the wake of trading for Herschel Walker, falling to 8-8 last year. Discipline was lax, cliques abounded. One of his first acts was rearranging the locker room numerically. "I'm not real comfortable with groups inside the 47-man roster, whether it's the Bible-studies group or the same-fraternity-in-college group," Green said. "The teams that are most successful have unity." When Dan Rooney, the Steelers' president, was looking to replace the dominating presence of Chuck Noll, who had been at the helm since 1969, the search was focused on someone who had an appreciation of Pittsburgh. When Things Are Simple In Bill Cowher, Rooney found a virtual native who had most recently been the defensive coordinator of the Kansas City Chiefs. Along with two of his assistants, the Steelers now have three coaches who are defensive-back specialists. Small wonder the team has 12 interceptions; no other team has more than 8. Cowher put in a defense that was more intuitive than the read-and-react system championed by Noll and defensive coordinator Rod Rust, now with the Giants. Interestingly, the Steelers' defensive players are talking enthusiastically about how much simpler their plays are now (sound familiar, Giants fans?). But Cowher responds to this with a basic truth: When you win, everything's simple.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "It is categorized as simple," he said. "When you have success, there is a sense of having confidence. That is part of coaching. Part of coaching is to present something that has the effect of it being very simple that we need to go out and just execute." The Bengals, meanwhile, needed to get off their roller-coaster. "It seems we finish either first or last," said Mike Brown, the vice president and general manager. David Shula was the first Bengals coach picked by someone other than Paul Brown, the team's founder and leading figure until his death. Advertisement "I think David Shula is the kind of coach my father would have hired," said Mike Brown. "He's well-organized, a solid guy, gained the respect of the players." One thing any Bengals coach had to understand was this: "I was going to be around, and so was my brother Pete and my daughter Katie," explained Mike Brown. "We weren't going to interfere, but he had to expect to see us. We're different from most owners. This is our business and life." No Guarantee Sometimes you can't win, especially when you lose. Take Bruce Coslet. The Jets' coach never "guaranteed" a victory before last Sunday's game against the 49ers. Asked this question by a television interviewer -- "Do you think this is a make-or-break game?" -- the combative Coslet replied: "This is not a make-or-break game for the Jets. But we're going to go out and win the damn game." The prediction came back to haunt Coslet when the word "guarantee" appeared in headlines and on 6 o'clock news reports. Punt, Pass, Kick Return After 11 years, Punt, Pass and Kick is returning, and will include female participants. Its original run, which began in 1960, ended in 1981, when Ford halted sponsorship. But now Gatorade has revived the program for football players from 8 to 13 years, who will compete at halftime during N.F.L. games. "We're involving girls," said the president of N.F.L. Properties, John Bello. "At the age they're competing, there isn't a dramatic difference in the abilities, especially at 7, 8 and 9." The program, which costs about $2 million, will involve about 300,000 youngsters in the 26 N.F.L. markets. Entry forms are available at parks and at Sears stores. The final will probably be held during halftime of the Pro Bowl. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 27, 1992, on Page 8008002 of the National edition with the headline: NOTEBOOK; 5 New Acts and the Coaches Who Direct Them.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »