The Yankees’ season is now in the hands of A.J. Burnett. Delmon Young hit a home run in the seventh inning off reliever Rafael Soriano, breaking a 4-4 tie and sending the Tigers to a 5-4 victory over the Yankees in Game 3 of their American League division series in Detroit.  The Tigers lead the best-of-five series, two games to one. Game 4 will be Tuesday at 8:37 p.m. with Burnett (11-11, 5.15 earned run average), who was not scheduled to start in this series before a rainstorm changed the rotation, set to face the Tigers’ Rick Porcello (14-9, 4.75 E.R.A.).  A Game 5, if needed, would be Thursday night at Yankee Stadium. The Yankees scored four runs off Tigers starter Justin Verlander, who finished the regular season with 24 wins, a 2.40 E.R.A. and 250 strikeouts. They got to him with two runs in the first inning, when Derek Jeter singled to center and scored on Curtis Granderson’s triple. Granderson scored on Alex Rodriguez’s groundout  to shortstop. But Verlander bounced back to dominate the middle innings and the Tigers scored two in the third and single runs in the fifth and sixth innings to take a 4-2 lead. The Yankees mounted an improbable rally in the seventh with two outs: Jorge Posada walked, Russell Martin was hit by a pitch, and Brett Gardner doubled to left with the runners moving on a 3-2 count. Jeter struck out with Gardner on second to end the threat. The lead was short-lived, however, as Young’s home run came in the bottom of the inning. The Yankees got the tying run in scoring position in the ninth against closer Jose Valverde when Posada walked again and Eduardo Nunez, pinch-running for him, stole second with two outs. Gardner walked, too, but Jeter struck out swinging to end the game. 



Final Tigers Defeat Yankees, 5-4, Lead Series, 2-1
 Gardner walks. So with the tying run on second and the go-ahead run on first, both on walks, Derek Jeter comes to the plate.  Jeter was ripping on the first pitch and fouled it off, then looked at strike two. The third pitch almost hit Jeter in the helmet and the fourth one was … low. And Jeter struck out swinging. Posada, who drew a key walk in the Yankees’ two-run seventh, draws another walk. Eduardo Nunez enters the game to pinch-run for Posada, who can’t run. Russell Martin flies out to the warning track in right field, so now the game is up to Brett Gardner.  And Nunez steals second. Valverde was 49 for 49 in save opportunities during the regular season, but very shaky on Sunday in Game 2, allowing two runs in one inning, including a home run to Swisher. Swisher pops up. One out. Jose Valverde will face Swisher, Posada and Martin. David Robertson comes on in the eighth inning to face the Tigers. He struck out Kelly, then hit Peralta with a pitch. Avila grounded out to Teixeira at first with the runner moving, bringing up Inge with two out and a runner at second. Inge grounded out to Rodriguez. Verlander threw 99 mph on his 120th pitch. So yes, I would send him out for the 9th. #tigers #nyyTue Oct 04 03:26:21  via webIan O’ConnorIan_OConnor  Granderson hit a deep fly to the right-field warning track. Caught.
Cano struck out. Caught looking.  Verlander is throwing about 100 miles an hour, according to some radar guns at the park. On a 3-2 count to Rodriguez, the high cheese was too high and he walked. But Mark Teixeira flied out to left to end the inning. Nice job John Smoltz: Delmon Young steps in: “Be careful on the first pitch” – Young homers on first pitch. 5-4 #TigersTue Oct 04 03:11:39  via TwittelatorKeith OlbermannKeithOlbermann  Young’s home run, then Miguel Cabrera’s deep flyout to center field, about 417 feet, make you wonder if Soriano has good stuff. But he gets out of the inning, down, 5-4. That lead didn’t last long.  Delmon Young hit a home run to right field to give the Tigers the lead back. The inning isn’t over. Gardner is on second with two out and Derek Jeter up. And Jeter strikes out on breaking ball in the dirt. But the Yankees manufactured a rally on a walk, a hit batsman and a two-out, two-run double with the runners on the move by Brett Gardner.  It was an uncharacteristic inning for Verlander, who is now at 101 pitches but unlikely to be coming out any time soon. It will be important for Soriano and the rest of the bullpen to hold the Tigers the rest of the way. Leading off, Mark Teixeira is Verlander’s ninth strikeout. Swisher fouls out to left field.  Verlander allows his second walk, to Jorge Posada. And then Verlander plunks Russell Martin in the chest. So, the Yankees have one of those no-hit rallies with Brett Gardner up. After being ahead in the count, 3-0, Gardner struck a two-run double on a 3-2 count into the gap in left-center.  With Martin running on the 3-2 count, and with the Tigers sloppy on the relay throw, Martin scored easily. It was a struggle all night for Sabathia. 106 pitches, only had one 1-2-3 inning.Tue Oct 04 02:44:19  via TweetDeckDavid WaldsteinDavidWaldstein  So, Soriano came in with a runner on third and one out and did his job. He kept the score at 4-2, by getting Inge, who was 2 for 2, to foul out to Mark Teixeira near first base and striking out Austin Jackson. The Tigers’ lead is 4-2 heading into the seventh. Avila bunts to Rodriguez at third. Cano made an excellent catch at first as the throw was toward the runner. Cano was spiked but made the play. And that’s it for Sabathia. Girardi will bring in Rafael Soriano to try to keep the score at 4-2. Don Kelly, the defensive replacement, bunts for a leadoff single to start the Tigers’ sixth. Peralta follows with a double over the head of Brett Gardner in left field. The ball took a weird bounce off the fence and got away from Gardner, allowing Kelly to score easily. With a man on second and nobody out, the Tigers will be bunting. The TBS broadcasters say Verlander is 13-0 when Tigers get three or more runs, so we’ll see. Derek Jeter leads off with a single, ending Verlander’s streak of consecutive strikeouts at four. But then Granderson strikes out. He has struck out five of the last six. Cano flies out, and with Alex Rodriguez batting, the crowd chants, “M.V.P.” for Verlander. Rodriguez looks at strike three to end the inning. So Verlander picks up two more strikeouts and now has eight. Tigers Manager Jim Leyland makes a defensive move in the sixth, putting in Don Kelly for Ordonez. His decision to not only play Santiago against Sabathia but to bat him second has also paid off, as Santiago is 2 for 3 with two runs batted in. Brandon Inge and Santiago have four of the Tigers’ five hits. Young has the other. After Young flied out to center, the Yankees intentionally walked Miguel Cabrera, giving the Tigers first and second with two out. Sabathia bounced a pitch in front of the plate that Russell Martin kept in front of him, but Santiago was able to advance to third. Then Victory Martinez grounded to third, and Rodriguez got the forceout at second to end the threat. Verlander seemed to be pitching to the crowd last inning, feeding off it. He struck out the side with 10 pitches, the fans cheering each one.  Sabathia’s task now is to somehow match that. But the Tigers’ Inge led off with a single to center, and the leadoff hitter Austin Jackson sacrificed him to second. Santiago doubled to left-center, and Inge scored. Bottom third of Yankees’ batting order is set to face Verlander … and Verlander strikes out the side: Posada, Martin and Gardner. The Detroit crowd is very into the game. He now has six strikeouts in the game, and his pitch count is at 59. Sabathia is at 77 pitches. Back-to-back nights with managers griping about strike zone in mid-game TV interviews. It’ll be interesting to see if there’s a backlash.Tue Oct 04 02:05:41  via webBuster OlneyBuster_ESPN  Verlander has found a groove. Sabathia has had control problems. He has five walks, and his next walk will tie his career high. The Yankees have kept the score 2-2 by getting a double play in each of the first three innings. After missing a potential leadoff home run to the first row in right field by a matter of about three seats, Ordonez ripped a grounder to third that Rodriguez handled for the first out. Then Peralta popped out to short. And Avila struck out. So, this was Sabathia’s first 1-2-3 inning, and he needed the break. Manager Joe Girardi was very diplomatic in a television interview this inning, saying that he thought Sabathia had made some good pitches in this game and that he made some borderline pitches that were called balls. CC is pitching like MacGyverTue Oct 04 01:45:20  via TweetDeckDavid WaldsteinDavidWaldstein  The double play left the Tigers with a man on third base with two outs and Victor Martinez batting. Martinez grounded out to third to end the inning. The Yankees lost their two-run advantage, but not the lead, and we head into the fourth inning tied, 2-2. That inning could have been a lot worse. Santiago, batting second tonight, hits a run-scoring single to left, and the Tigers trail, 2-1. Delmon Young dumps a single into right, but this one won’t score a runner. So the Tigers have the bases loaded, none out, with Cabrera coming to the plate. Cabrera grounds into a double play, though, but a run scores to tie the score, 2-2. Brandon Inge, the No. 9 hitter, led off the inning with a double to the left-center-field gap. Austin Jackson attempted a bunt on a 1-1 count, but he missed it. He was trying to beat out the bunt, instead of squaring around and sacrificing. Manager Jim Leyland is pacing in the dugout (like a Tiger). And now Jackson walks on a 3-2 count as Sabathia continues to be squeezed. It appears from here that the Tigers have non-slip on-deck circles. Could be a factor if it rains.Tue Oct 04 01:19:24  via TweetDeckDavid WaldsteinDavidWaldstein  Brett Gardner leads off with a bunt single. He hit it in the air toward first base. Nobody could catch it on a fly, and Verlander didn’t field it cleanly. It would have been hard to get him out even if he had. So now the Yankees can put some pressure on Verlander with the running game. Gardner was running on 2-1, but Jeter fouled it off. And now Jeter hits into a 3-6-3 double play, started nicely by Miguel Cabrera. Granderson flied out to left to end the inning. Sabathia walks Ordonez to lead off the Tigers’ second, Sabathia’s fourth walk of the game. And now Peralta hits into a double play started by Jeter at short. And Alex Avila strikes out swinging on a low breaking ball. So, interesting developments so far: Sabathia walked three in the first inning, the strike zone appears to be the size of a box of Cheerios. Let’s see if it’s any different for Verlander. Sabathia had a 28-pitch inning, with as many balls as strikes. Verlander has an easy second inning: Swisher flied out to left fielder Young.  Posada singled to center. Martin grounded into a double play. And now Sabathia is right out there again with hardly any rest after a laborious first. With two outs and men on first and second, Victor Martinez, batting .394 with runners in scoring position, strikes out on a breaking ball in the dirt to end the inning. And now a second walk in the first inning means Sabathia will have to face Miguel Cabrera with a man on first and two outs. Sabathia is struggling to find the plate. To be fair to Sabathia, the strike zone has been very tight tonight. It was 3-0 on Cabrera when it could’ve been 1-2.Â  And Cabrera walks. C.C. Sabathia was 19-8 with a 3.00 earned run average this season. He’ll face a lineup for right-handed hitters in Game 3 with catcher Alex Avila the only left-handed batter. Sabathia walks Austin Jackson on a 3-2 pitch. But he is wiped out when Santiago hits into a double play around the horn, Rodriguez to Cano (nice jumping relay) to Teixeira. I figured Santiago would be bunting, but I guess he’s batting second today because of his good numbers against Sabathia and Jim Leyland maybe wanted to see if that success would continue. Perhaps being down, 2-0, was part of the equation. Verlander strikes out Teixeira to end the first inning, but not before allowing two runs. A good start for the Yankees.  Verlander is throwing nasty stuff, and Rodriguez entered Game 3 hitting 0 for 8 in this postseason. Rodriguez hit a slow trickler to shortstop, but Granderson was running on contact. Peralta maybe had a shot at home, but wisely took the out at first. Yankees lead, 2-0 The infield was back for Cano, but comes in for Alex Rodriguez. The Yankees need to get this second run home as Verlander can eventually get into a groove. Curtis Granderson drove a ball to the left-center field gap for a triple, scoring Jeter from first. With Robinson Cano up, the Tigers’ infield is back, conceding the run. Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter lines a single up the middle on the game’s first pitch. The only significant change in the lineups for Game 3 has to do with Tigers second baseman Ramon Santiago, who will bat second based on his good numbers against Sabathia (7 for 24 with a double). Santiago had two sacrifice bunts in Game 2 as Manager Jim Leyland played small ball to try to extend the Tigers’ lead. Here are the lineups for Game 3: Yankees: Derek Jeter ss
Curtis Granderson cf
Robinson Cano 2b
Alex Rodriguez 3b
Mark Teixeira 1b
Nick Swisher rf
Jorge Posada dh
Russell Martin c
Brett Gardner lf C.C. Sabathia Tigers
Austin Jackson CF
Ramon Santiago 2B
Delmon Young LF
Miguel Cabrera 1B
Victor Martinez DH
Magglio Ordonez RF
Jhonny Peralta SS
Alex Avila C
Brandon Inge 3B Justin Verlander The New York Times reporters Tyler Kepner, Ben Shpigel, Jack Curry and Joe Lapointe, along with their Times colleagues, will bring baseball fans inside the run up to the 2008 baseball season with access, analysis and the latest updates from spring training. Tyler Kepner has covered the Yankees for The New York Times since 2002.  He joined The Times in 2000 as the Mets beat writer. A native of Philadelphia and a graduate of Vanderbilt University, Kepner has also covered the Angels for the Riverside Press-Enterprise in California and the Mariners for the Seattle Post-Intelligencer. He lives in Connecticut with his wife and their four children. Ben Shpigel has covered the Mets for The Times since 2005. Before then, he was a staff writer for the Dallas Morning News for two years. He also worked at The News Journal in Wilmington, Del., and for the Atlanta Journal-Constitution.  Shpigel received a bachelor's degree in English and journalism from Emory University and a master's degree in journalism from Columbia University. He and his wife, Rebecca, live in Manhattan. Jack Curry has covered baseball for the The New
York Times for 18 seasons.  Since 1998, he has served as the newspaper's national baseball writer.  Before that, Curry covered the Yankees from 1991-1997.  He was also the beat writer for the New Jersey Nets' 1990-1991 season and covered college basketball, college football and wrote for the Metro section. Born in Jersey City, N.J., Curry graduated from Fordham University. He and his wife, Pamela, live in New Jersey. 
			This blog’s regular features, including live game analysis, news and notes from Tyler Kepner, David Waldstein and others, can now be found on the baseball section of our website.Read more… 
			The free-agent second baseman Robinson Cano is reportedly still seeking a 10-year deal for $310 million, figures the Yankees are said to be unwilling to meet. Read more… 
			When asked what he has done thus far in the off-season, Mets General Manager Sandy Alderson responded with a joke. Read more… 
			The Mets maybe should, but most assuredly won’t, defy all expectations and make a legitimate bid to lure Robinson Cano away from the Yankees.Read more… 
			The Yankees are waiting to hear whether Curtis Granderson will accept their qualifying offer, and set their outfield for 2014, or test the market and send the Yankees chasing another free agent. Read more… Follow Advertisement