Advertisement By CLAIRE SMITH and  A $260 million line of credit granted to major league baseball by 12 major banks in May could be in jeopardy because of the paralysis banks fear may grow out of the internecine warfare being waged between some major league owners and Commissioner Fay Vincent. According to the loan agreement, which included $100 million from Citibank N.A. and $40 million from Chemical Bank, the deal can be called into question if certain material adverse conditions occur. A baseball executive, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said included in those conditions are changes in the commissioner's authority over the central fund and the commissioner's role in television contract negotiations. Vincent is currently negotiating with networks as baseball's current four-year contract with CBS worth $1.057 billion runs down. The contract is to expire after the 1993 season, as will baseball's $390 million, four-year deal with ESPN and its $52 million, four-year deal with CBS Radio. More Money Being Sought Meanwhile, concern among banking officials may also effect baseball's pursuit of a second loan totaling $140 million. Owners reportedly are interested in securing more money for reasons ranging from increasing their ability to sign free agents to helping fund a lockout fund. (The labor agreement with the players is scheduled to expire at the end of the 1993 season, but can be re-opened by either party at the end of this season.) Advertisement The negotiations for the additional money only recently started but, according to the baseball executive, a chilling effect has settled in as bankers make more and more inquiries about speculation that some owners may attempt to fire Vincent when the two leagues meet Sept. 3 in Rosemont, Ill. Advertisement The idea that Vincent is embattled at the very time he is seeking to re-negotiate the television and radio contracts is fueling the concern. Said the major league executive: "It should not be any great surprise that the banks are uneasy," citing fear that those hampered negotiations could directly effect loan guarantees since baseball used similar television money, as contained in the central fund, as collateral for the original loan.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. And, according to The Associated Press, one bank executive, who declined to be identified, said yesterday, "the banks look to the commissioner's office as managing this financing and we certainly like having a chief executive in the commissioner. The banks prefer to have one person making decisions rather than having 28 clubs squabbling." Only 20 Percent Left Eighty percent of the original loan reportedly has already been taken out by nine clubs. Though those clubs have never officially been revealed, it is said that the Milwaukee Brewers borrowed $30 million and the Detroit Tigers borrowed $5 million. In March, when baseball was negotiating the first loan, Steve Greenberg, the deputy commissioner, termed the deal significant "because of the nature of the security, because of the number of clubs participating, the amount of the loan, the size of the banks involved, we can get terms that are superior to what clubs could get with the individual banks." Under the agreement, the teams did, indeed, receive a break. Bankers told The Associated Press that teams were previously borrowing at 1 or 2 percent above the prime rate, which is now 6 percent. Baseball originally sought $285 million, but settled for $25 million less. They borrowed the $260 million at 1.25 percent above the London Interbank Offered Rate, which is currently 3.5 percent. Teams have seven years to repay the loans, making payments only on interest in the first three years. Aside from Citibank and Chemical, the original agreement included four Japanese banks, four from New York, one each from Minneapolis and Milwaukee. Also, one bank each from Lisbon, Portugal and Vienna loaned money. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 27, 1992, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Major Leagues May Find Their Credit in Jeopardy.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »