Advertisement By JOE LAPOINTE Negotiations between Mark Messier and the Rangers resumed yesterday, with Neil Smith once again representing the Stanley Cup champions in contract talks with their holdout captain. "We're talking to Neil right now," Messier said in a telephone interview from his home in Hilton Head, S.C. "Maybe we'll have something to say soon." Smith, the president and general manager of the team, took over the contract talks from Bob Gutkowski, the former president of Madison Square Garden, who was forced to resign on Tuesday. Messier said his father, Doug Messier, was talking by telephone with Smith, who was with the team in Los Angeles for an exhibition game. Smith confirmed that negotiations have resumed. "I talked to the Messiers Tuesday and at quite some length today," Smith said. He said he did not want to elaborate or reveal details of the negotiations because he did not want to bargain through the news media. Advertisement "There really isn't going to be a lot to say from here on in," Smith said by telephone from Los Angeles. "Basically, these negotiations are not starting back at ground zero." Advertisement Doug Messier said late last night that he had spoken with Smith and described the conversation as brief. "I'm waiting for him to call me back," Messier said. Asked what effect of the Gutkowski firing would have on the negotiations, Messier said: "I can't answer that because I don't know. I don't know their agenda. Mr. Gutkowski was a fine individual. We enjoyed doing business with him." Messier said Smith had to check with his superiors before getting back to him. Some of Gutkowski's duties have been taken over by David Checketts, the Knicks' president, who is now overseeing both the hockey and basketball teams as part of the Madison Square Garden Sports Group. The move is part of a rapidly changing kaleidoscope of management at the Garden, which was sold by Paramount to Viacom earlier this year and is in the process of being sold again by Viacom to a partnership of ITT and Cablevision. Earlier yesterday, Checketts passed the ball (or puck) to Smith, at least in the Messier matter. "Neil will handle the negotiations," Checketts said. "I will certainly be involved to the extent that he and I will discuss it on a daily basis. Each side understands what the other is trying to accomplish, but, for one reason or another, the sides haven't come together and we hope we can close it quickly." Checketts said it is "critical to keep Messier" on the Rangers. "I know the esteem with which he is held by players and people in the Rangers' organization," Checketts said. "I want to keep him." Smith said, "I'm going to report to Dave and work very closely with Dave." "Dave will take it up the ladder," Smith said, referring to the management structure at the Garden. "I'm optimistic that we can resolve this. I met with Dave this morning in New York and it only took a few minutes to cut to the chase."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Asked if he would entertain trade offers for Messier if he can't come to a contract agreement, Smith replied: "That would be something I can't even imagine. I can't fathom that. It would be a bad situation if it ever came up. No trade has ever been discussed, either internally or externally." Messier is currently under contract for $2.6 million in the fourth year of a five-year contract. But a provision of his contract allows him to re-open negotiations if the Rangers win the Stanley Cup, which they did last June. Advertisement Messier has missed 12 days of training camp. His holdout began on Sept. 9, when he didn't arrive by the midnight deadline. Although Messier wanted to negotiate throughout the summer, the Rangers made no contract proposal until hours before the opening of camp. They offered about $4 million per season for three seasons. Messier, through his father, countered with a request for about $18 million over the same span. There was little sense of crisis as Messier missed the first week of training camp, which began in Glens Falls, N.Y., and then moved to Rye, N.Y. On Sept. 13, Messier expressed optimism that the negotiations would be settled in "a couple of days." It was at about this time that Gutkowski took over the negotiations from Smith. With Gutkowski talking to Doug Messier through last week, the bargaining seemed to stall, with the Messiers holding at around $6 million per season and Gutkowski not moving above $5 million. Following a weekend break in the conversations, the talks resumed on Monday, with both sides modifying their positions. According to Messier's accountant, Barry Klarberg of New York, the two sides were bargaining in the range of $5 million to $6 million per season. Klarberg that day met face to face with Gutkowski at the Garden and expressed optimism that a deal would soon by settled. Among the proposals were two-year and three-year pacts, along with bonus structures for extra money. Messier has said throughout the bargaining that he wishes to be paid on a level near that of Wayne Gretzky and Mario Lemieux. Gretzky, with bonuses, earned about $8.5 million last season. He is to earn about $6.5 million this season. Lemieux, who isn't playing due to ill health, has a contract that will pay him about $7 million this season, including base salary and bonus provisions. The Messiers were to study all proposals Monday night and negotiate again with Gutkowski on Tuesday morning. But, before they could come to an agreement, Gutkowski's forced resignation put everything on hold. The precipitating factor in Gutkowski's dismissal may have been a feeling by the prospective new owners of the Garden that he was offering too much money to Messier. The Rangers played in Los Angeles last night, their fifth of nine exhibition games. Their regular season is scheduled to begin Oct. 1 at New Jersey. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 22, 1994, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; Rangers Resume Messier Contract Talks.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »