It’s come down to this for the Detroit Tigers: lean on their ace, Justin Verlander, for a win Thursday or the Texas Rangers win the American League Championship Series and advance to the World Series. After dropping another heartbreaker, this time, 7-3, in a rainy 11 innings in Wednesday’s Game 4, Detroit trails the series, three games to one. Texas is sending C. J. Wilson to the mound for Game 5. Verlander is 1-1 in three playoff starts, with a 5.54 E.R.A. Despite the desperate situation, Verlander said he is not going to feel special pressure. “Just try to keep pretty much the same routine,” Verlander said Wednesday. “When I’m at home, I do eat at Taco Bell, as weird as that sounds. I’m not the healthiest eater in the world.  I try to stay loose and not get all tense up. Just get a pretty good night’s sleep and that’s pretty much it.”

As the Detroit News columnist Bob Wojnowski writes, Verlander is going to need to take control of the game to give the Tigers a chance. “…Whatever the Tigers get now, they’re gonna have to scratch for it,” Wojnowski said. “That’s no excuse, by the way. Injuries are part of the game. But the hurt obviously is showing. They need a big save now, if not a savior. Verlander will eagerly accept the role, one he knows well. He hasn’t been dominant in the playoffs yet, and Leyland suggested his star has shown signs of tiring. That would make sense if, in fact, Verlander were 100 percent human. “He’ll need to be super-human today, or the season ends. If that sounds like a challenge, Verlander is the one you’d want trying to fill it…”  If the Tigers and Verlander need some inspiration, there is some historical precedent to draw from to climb out of the deep series hole. The 1968 Tigers fell behind, three games to one, to the St. Louis Cardinals in the World Series, and needed to win Games 5, 6 and 7 — two of which were at Busch Stadium — to win the championship. The Tigers won, 5-3, in Game 5, at Tiger Stadium, on a start by Mickey Lolich. Two days later, Denny McLain pitched a 13-1 win over the Cardinals in Busch Stadium to tie the World Series at three games each. The big Game 7 showdown had Bob Gibson and Lolich, both starting on two days’ rest, dueling. The Tigers won, 4-1, and captured the World Series. If this A.L.C.S. goes the distance, Game 7 would be Sunday and Verlander could pitch it on two days’ rest — creating a fascinating parallel to Lolich’s heroics 43 years ago. The New York Times reporters Tyler Kepner, Ben Shpigel, Jack Curry and Joe Lapointe, along with their Times colleagues, will bring baseball fans inside the run up to the 2008 baseball season with access, analysis and the latest updates from spring training. Tyler Kepner has covered the Yankees for The New York Times since 2002.  He joined The Times in 2000 as the Mets beat writer. A native of Philadelphia and a graduate of Vanderbilt University, Kepner has also covered the Angels for the Riverside Press-Enterprise in California and the Mariners for the Seattle Post-Intelligencer. He lives in Connecticut with his wife and their four children. Ben Shpigel has covered the Mets for The Times since 2005. Before then, he was a staff writer for the Dallas Morning News for two years. He also worked at The News Journal in Wilmington, Del., and for the Atlanta Journal-Constitution.  Shpigel received a bachelor's degree in English and journalism from Emory University and a master's degree in journalism from Columbia University. He and his wife, Rebecca, live in Manhattan. Jack Curry has covered baseball for the The New
York Times for 18 seasons.  Since 1998, he has served as the newspaper's national baseball writer.  Before that, Curry covered the Yankees from 1991-1997.  He was also the beat writer for the New Jersey Nets' 1990-1991 season and covered college basketball, college football and wrote for the Metro section. Born in Jersey City, N.J., Curry graduated from Fordham University. He and his wife, Pamela, live in New Jersey. 
			This blog’s regular features, including live game analysis, news and notes from Tyler Kepner, David Waldstein and others, can now be found on the baseball section of our website.Read more… 
			The free-agent second baseman Robinson Cano is reportedly still seeking a 10-year deal for $310 million, figures the Yankees are said to be unwilling to meet. Read more… 
			When asked what he has done thus far in the off-season, Mets General Manager Sandy Alderson responded with a joke. Read more… 
			The Mets maybe should, but most assuredly won’t, defy all expectations and make a legitimate bid to lure Robinson Cano away from the Yankees.Read more… 
			The Yankees are waiting to hear whether Curtis Granderson will accept their qualifying offer, and set their outfield for 2014, or test the market and send the Yankees chasing another free agent. Read more… Follow Advertisement