Advertisement By GERALD ESKENAZI and  It ended for the Jets on the Packers' goal line today, Rob Moore slipping on old-fashioned grass in this old-fashioned stadium as Boomer Esiason's pass skidded off the fingers of one hand. In this season of redefining themselves, the Jets were just that short of tying, if not defeating, the Packers, who ended up with a toughly contested 17-10 victory. All losses hurt, of course. But this was a game the Jets thought would keep them on the new level they had reached with three victories in their last four starts, including a rousing triumph over Buffalo last week. "This loss," said Coach Pete Carroll, "really leaves us with a sick feeling -- a couple critical calls, a couple penalties. . . ." Advertisement And a slip -- or was it a shove? In their second loss in three games, the Jets once again were left grumbling about the officials' calls. Advertisement The latest controversy was a fourth-and-3 play from the Green Bay 9 today with only 64 seconds remaining. It capped a classy and theatrical six-minute drive for the Jets in which Esiason produced big plays in combination with Johnny Mitchell, Art Monk and Moore. The team was moving down the field, from its own 32, behind an offensive line whose starting tackles were out with injuries and had been replaced by a pair of inexperienced second-year men. But in the end, after 16 plays, the Jets came up empty. Of course, no one will ever know what might have happened if Moore had not slipped on the wet field just in front of Green Bay cornerback Doug Evans, who actually fell first and may have nudged Moore. The replays were inconclusive. Had Moore caught the ball, it might have set up an intriguing situation -- would Carroll have gone for the 2-point conversion and the probable victory or the 1-point kick and a tie, with overtime looming? Carroll said later he probably would have taken the kick. But to get there, Moore had to catch the ball. "I'm coming to you, no matter what," Esiason had told Moore as the team prepared for the fateful fourth down. Moore, who had already snared seven receptions, headed for the left side of the end zone. He was confident going up against Evans, against whom he had scored on a similar pattern earlier in the game. "I tried to come out of my break," said Moore. "I couldn't get my balance. It was no question if I could have kept my feet. The funny thing is, he knows what I'm going to do. I ran that 20 times today, but it's a thing you can't stop." Of course, Esiason led the charge when the officials declined to call a penalty on Evans. But Moore admitted he wasn't sure if he was hit by the Green Bay defender. The painful ending evoked the Jets' 3-point loss two weeks ago to the Colts, when Moore snared a fourth-and-1 pass only to be ruled short of the first down, ending the Jets' chances late in the fourth quarter. Advertisement Today's loss dropped the Jets to 5-5, and kept the Packers (6-4) unbeaten at Lambeau Field this year, where they are 4-0. The Jets so desperately want respect. They have beaten only one team outside their own division this season. Today, they were going up against an improving N.F.C. Central team anchored by the great Reggie White on defense. Next week, they play another tough team in the same division -- the Minnesota Vikings.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Jets had figured they needed a Central Division kind of style today, creating turnovers against a team unexcelled in producing them. And the Jets did, in fact, get the game's first turnover, in the final period, when Tuineau Alipate -- who has spent the season coming on and off the practice squad -- recovered a muffed punt return by Charles Jordan on the Packers' 42. Immediately, Esiason looked for Moore in the end zone. He made a leaping grab while tangled with Evans and appeared to come down with the ball for a touchdown. The field judge, Kirk Dornan, said touchdown, but the back judge, Scott Steenson, said no, that Moore had bobbled it.  Steenson prevailed. Replays -- which don't count, in any event -- were unclear. The score would have propelled the Jets to a 17-14 lead. Instead, the Packers got the ball back when Esiason threw a desperation fourth-down pass and was intercepted -- only the third time he has been picked off in the last seven games. That pickoff positioned Chris Jacke's 46-yard field goal to make it 17-10. Then came the Jets' final chance, and their frustrating failure. Throughout, this was a game of impact tackling by two very solid defenses. It took the Jets awhile to get into a groove, though. They were forced to start without Ronnie Lott at free safety, replaced by Pat Terrell, and Aaron Glenn at left cornerback, replaced by Marcus Turner. Green Bay moved easily early, getting inadvertent help on Marvin Jones's late hit on quarterback Brett Favre. Eventually, Robert Brooks caught a 7-yard pass from Favre to open the scoring. Advertisement The Jets settled for Nick Lowery's 20-yard field goal midway through the second quarter after Richie Anderson's 55-yard run from scrimmage. Finally, on the last drive of the half, Esiason and his receivers joined forces. Esiason connected with Mitchell on a 22-yarder, and then capped an 80-yard drive with an 11-yard scoring pass to Moore. That gave the Jets a 10-7 lead at halftime. Favre, with a younger arm than Esiason's, fired a 17-yard touchdown pass to Anthony Morgan in the third quarter to put Green Bay back ahead. Morgan was surrounded by Terrell and James Hasty, but the ball zipped between them. It was a touchdown drive kept alive when Anthony Prior was hit with a pass-interference call on Terry Mickens on a third-down toss. The Jets couldn't believe the call. And they couldn't believe how the game ended either. EXTRA POINTS JEFF CRISWELL, the starting left tackle, suffered a hyperextended elbow and will undergo further tests Monday. . . . BOOMER ESIASON's touchdown toss was his 201st, putting him into a tie with ROMAN GABRIEL for 16th place on the all-time list. . . . RONNIE LOTT's consecutive-game streak stopped at 57. Lott, who is suffering from a nerve injury in his shoulder, missed the last four games of 1990. . . . STERLING SHARPE, the Packers' receiver who set a N.F.L. receiving records the last two seasons, left with a hamstring injury. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 14, 1994, on Page C00001 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL; Once Again, Jets Are Shot Down on 4th Down.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »