Advertisement By DAVE ANDERSON OUTSIDE the bus, green lights flashed atop police cars and on the handlebars of police motorcycles. Above, a police helicopter rumbled. But despite its police escort, the Dream Team's bus was snarled in the Barcelona traffic. "I'm getting off," Magic Johnson said. "I'm taking the subway back to the hotel." To the consternation of Coach Chuck Daly and the police, Magic and a few other Dream Team players got off the bus. Horace Balmer, the National Basketball Association's director of security, insists now that the players soon returned to the bus. Daly doesn't remember them doing so, but the Olympic basketball coach does remember what he told his team the next day. "You can't just get off our bus like that," Daly said. "I'm worried about what could happen." What could happen to threaten the safety of the world's most celebrated sports team had been much more of a concern to Daly than what could happen in the Olympic basketball tournament. The day the players gathered in San Diego for their first practice, the coach addressed them. "Our next six weeks," he said, "is a Tom Clancy novel waiting to happen." Tom Clancy writes fiction, but Chuck Daly remembered numbing nonfiction: the massacre of 11 Israeli athletes and officials by Black September terrorists in the Olympic Village at Munich in 1972. Understandably and responsibly, the Dream Team's coach feared that his players could be a target in Barcelona for anti-American or Basque separatist terrorists. Advertisement "The more I read about the Basque separatists," Daly was saying now, alluding to the killing of more than 700 people in almost a quarter of a century in their struggle for independence for three northern Spanish provinces, "the more I knew these things could happen." Advertisement But now it can be told why nothing happened. Now it can be told why these basketball Beatles were lodged in the downtown Ambassador Hotel rather than the Olympic Village, why narrow Pintor Fortuny, the street outside that hotel, was cordoned off to traffic for the two weeks the United States Olympic basketball players, coaches, staff, families and friends were lodged there. "The Basque separatists," Horace Balmer recalled, "are known for parking a car with a bomb in it outside a building. But nobody was allowed to park a car or a truck outside our hotel." Balmer had worked for months with the State Department in Washington, the Spanish Government and Barcelona officials to coordinate security precautions that involved Spain's national police, Barcelona city police and private security officers. "The French Government cooperated, too." Balmer said. "Hundreds of known Basque separatists were locked up in French jails to make sure they wouldn't disrupt the Olympics. I think some of them are still there." In their travels during the Olympics, the Dream Team players and coaches rode one bus that took a different route to every game and every practice. Staff members and N.B.A. personnel rode another bus, and families and friends rode a third. As the coach, Daly sat where a N.B.A. coach invariably sits: in the highly visible front row across the aisle from the driver. "I expected the police cars in front and in back, I expected the motorcycles," the coach recalled. "But when I heard the helicopter above us wherever we went, I knew this was serious. I was ready to give up my seat."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Hoping for a glimpse of Michael Jordan or Magic Johnson or Larry Bird, sightseers often stood three and four deep in the street outside the hotel. But nobody was allowed to walk through the nearby alleys surrounding the hotel. Nobody was allowed into the hotel without a USA Basketball identification card. "When an employee left the hotel, he or she had to leave their card there and pick it up the next day," Balmer said. "The card also had a special logo so it couldn't be counterfeited." Advertisement In addition to several guards at the hotel's entrance, other guards were on duty inside. Two guards with sub-machine guns patrolled the hotel's rooftop swimming pool. Other guards were stationed in nearby buildings. But occasionally a player, notably Charles Barkley, would stroll from the hotel to the nearby Ramblas, a tree-shaded promenade. "I gave up on Barkley," Daly said. "You could only be a prisoner of the hotel for so long. He was going to go no matter how often I reminded him of what could happen. " "But whenever Charles took off, he was never really alone," Balmer said. "He may not have known it, but our security people were walking only a few steps from him." Daly, whose book "The Dream Team," written in collaboration with Alex Sachare of the N.B.A. office, will be released by Turner Publishing this week, remembered another scary moment. While playing golf with Jordan at the El Prat course along the Mediterranean, they were on a tee that was separated from the beach by high bushes. "All of a sudden, I heard this 'click, click, click,' in the bushes," Daly recalled. "But they were Japanese photographers." With no announcement of departure plans, the Dream Team left Barcelona within hours after winning their Olympic gold medals. "We didn't want to wait until the next morning," said Chuck Daly, now about to start his first season as the New Jersey Nets' coach. "We left the hotel at 2:30 in the middle of the night, took off at 4 and with the time difference landed at Newark International Airport at 6:15 that morning. I kissed the ground." The Tom Clancy novel had not happened. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 5, 1992, on Page C00003 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; Thwarting the Dream Team's Nightmare.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »