Advertisement  TENNIS  Agassi Upends Lendl Andre Agassi came back from a short night's sleep to defeat Ivan Lendl, 3-6, 6-2, 6-0, to win the Player's International tennis tournament yesterday at Toronto. Agassi, the Wimbledon champion, started slowly in the first set but dominated Lendl, a six-time Player's champion, in the final two sets. He won the final game with four straight aces. The victory, worth $180,000, was more impressive considering that Agassi and his doubles partner, John McEnroe, were still at center court at midnight Friday winning a three-set match over Rick Leach and Kelly Jones. Agassi and McEnroe lost, 6-4, 6-4, to a South African, Dan Visser, and an American, Pat Galbraith, later yesterday in the doubles final before a full house at the National Tennis Center. The victory against Lendl was Agassi's first in six attempts in their professional careers.(AP) Arrese and Novacek in Final: Jordi Arrese of Spain and Karel Novacek of Czechoslovakia posted straight-set victories yesterday to reach the final of the Dutch Open tournament in Hilversum, the Netherlands. Arrese used a strong serve-and-volley game to beat a wild-card entry, Mikael Tillstrom of Sweden, 6-3, 6-3, in just over an hour. Arrese, seeded second and ranked 29th in the world, will face Novacek, seeded third and ranked 23d, in today's final of the $250,000 ATP Tour event. (AP) AUTO RACING Mansell Wins Pole Spot Nigel Mansell won the pole position for the German Grand Prix in Hockenheim, by turning a qualifying lap yesterday in 1 minute 37.960 seconds, averaging 155.267 miles an hour. It gave him the prime position today at the 4.225-mile track, where the Briton will try to win for the eighth time in 10 races this season while expanding his Formula One points lead. Second to Mansell in qualifying was his Williams Renault teammate, Riccardo Patrese of Italy, .350 seconds behind. The second row will be occupied by the defending series champion, Ayrton Senna of Brazil, and his McLaren Honda teammate, Gerhard Berger of Austria. Jean Alesi of France will start fifth in a Ferrari, flanked by Michael Schumacher of Britain in a Benetton Ford. (AP) GOLF Langer Takes the Lead  Bernhard Langer shot his worst round of the tournament, a three-under-par 69, but moved to the top of the leader board anyway yesterday after three rounds of the $1.15 million Dutch Open tournament in Noordwijk, the Netherlands. Langer, runner-up to Payne Stewart in this event last year, started the day two strokes behind Mark Mouland, even after shooting 68's in his first two trips over the 6,880-yard Noordwijkse Golf Club layout. He wasn't quite that good yesterday, but Langer's 11-under 205 total was enough to relegate Mouland to a tie for second with Mike Mclean of England. Like Langer, Mouland and Mclean also posted their worst scores yesterday, Mouland shooting a 72 after starting 68-66 and Mclean a 70 after a 69-67 beginning. Stewart made the biggest move of the day, shooting a nine-under 63 and soaring from 43d place to fourth over all, just two strokes behind Langer. (AP) 2 Share Lead in British Seniors: Bob Charles of New Zealand and Neil Coles of England each shot one-over-par 72 yesterday in the rain to share the lead after 54 holes of the $380,000 British Senior Open tournament. Charles and Coles, who were at one-under-par 212 after three tours of the Royal Lytham course, were helped by the misfortunes of Michael Noon, the 36-hole leader who lost six strokes to par over the last five holes on the way to a 76. Noon, an amateur, had a two-stroke lead beginning yesterday's round, but his 76 dropped him to 214. Tommy Horton of England shot a 69 to move within a stroke of the lead at 213. He was joined at that figure by Joel Hirsch, who shot a 70; South African John Fourie, who had a 71, and Peter Butler of England, who had a 72. (AP) We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 26, 1992, on Page 8008011 of the National edition with the headline: Results Plus.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »