Advertisement By CRAIG O’SHANNESSYJULY 2, 2014
 WIMBLEDON, England — Nick Kyrgios’s month in England has featured the greatest success of his young career, and many people may be wondering if he is a flash in a pan. No, Kyrgios is the real deal. A 19-year-old Australian, Kyrgios lost to Milos Raonic in four sets Wednesday in the Wimbledon quarterfinals after dismantling Rafael Nadal on Centre Court a day earlier. Wednesday’s loss ended a 12-match winning streak for Kyrgios, who won the Challenger event in Nottingham, England, which enabled him to receive a wild-card spot at Wimbledon despite being ranked 144th. During Kyrgios’s wild ride, he saved nine match points in a second-round match against 13th-seeded Richard Gasquet, winning the fifth set by 10-8. At 6 feet 5 inches, Kyrgios is the prototype of the modern player, and he has potent weapons, especially his serve and his forehand. Advertisement His serve was especially jaw-dropping on the grass. Kyrgios was second in aces through the quarterfinals, with 128. Raonic led the way with 147. Advertisement Kyrgios had 37 aces against Nadal and had five second-serve aces in five matches for good measure. Forty percent of his serves went unreturned in the tournament. His fluid motion seems effortless and holds up under pressure. He had only 15 double faults in 115 service games. His fastest serve was 133 miles per hour, and he averaged 118 m.p.h. His fastest second serve was 118 m.p.h., with an average of 95 m.p.h. That sort of power should help him win a lot of matches in the years to come.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Even with such a big serve, Kyrgios made a remarkable 70 percent of first serves, winning 75 percent of the points. He also won 53 percent of second-serve points. Kyrgios’s forehand is hit with heavy spin to keep his power under control. According to IBM statistics, he hit 104 forehand winners in the tournament, more than Roger Federer (45) and Novak Djokovic (45) combined. Raonic had 67, Grigor Dimitrov 59 and Nadal 85. Kyrgios’s ultra-flat backhand is also incredibly effective, especially when short and angled cross court. He hit 47 backhand winners, just behind Djokovic’s 49. Raonic had 23, Federer 26, Dimitrov 27 and Andy Murray 32. If there is an area of Kyrgios’s game that could use improvement, it is in the frequency that he approaches the net to finish points behind his huge ground strokes. He won a healthy 64 percent of his net points (81 of 126) but approached the net only 17 times against Raonic and 16 times against Nadal. Kyrgios won 45 percent of baseline points; Djokovic, Nadal and Murray each had marks of at least 50 percent. Over all, Kyrgios won 739 points at Wimbledon, and each one provided experience that will serve him for years to come. His 13 hours 43 minutes on court gave him an invaluable base to build on for future Grand Slam tournaments. Craig O’Shannessy is the lead strategy analyst for the ATP and WTA Tours. He runs Brain Game Tennis, a website about tennis tactics. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »