Advertisement By JOE LAPOINTE and  Without a collective-bargaining agreement since Sept. 15 and unhappy with the current pace of negotiations, the National Hockey League Players Association announced today that its members would strike the league on March 30, the start of the final week of the regular season. Shortly afterward, the league announced that negotiations would resume next Tuesday. If the players go out, it would be the first strike in the 25-year history of the union and the first general walkout in the 75-year history of the league. The major issues are free-agent mobility, arbitration procedures and playoff compensation. 'Extreme Dissatisfaction' "In plain terms, a strike will occur unless a collectively negotiated agreement is reached by that deadline," Bob Goodenow, executive director of the Players Association, said in a press release from his Toronto office. The statement also said that players were extremely dissatisfied with the lack of progress in the talks. The timing of the planned walkout leaves the players with considerable leverage. During the Stanley Cup playoffs, team owners make much of their profit. Some take in almost $1 million a game in ticket sales. On the other hand, most players are paid salaries only during the regular season and earn only bonus money for the playoffs, as little as $3,000 for players whose teams lose in the first round, and as much as $25,000 for players whose teams win the Stanley Cup after four rounds. Advertisement The strike announcement was delivered to the team owners today in Chicago, where they were gathered at the Drake Hotel for a Board of Governors meeting. After the meeting, the league's president, John Ziegler, said he had talked by telephone with Goodenow this morning and that the two groups had scheduled a negotiating session next Tuesday at an unspecified location. Advertisement Ziegler said he found it curious that the strike deadline was announced by the association leadership and not by the players. He said the league would lose $9 million this season and could lose more next season. "The fact that they may strike, that is not a surprise," Ziegler added. "My crystal ball right now is a little cracked, and I think I have to wait until we get together again with the union to see whether or not we can get those cracks to disappear." Unanimous Vote The date for the scheduled walkout falls on a Monday on which no games are scheduled. On the six following days, there are 35 league games. The Rangers have one at home and one on the road. The Islanders have one at home and two on the road. The Devils have two at home and one on the road. After two days off at the end of the season, the playoffs are to begin on Wednesday, April 8. The players' nine-member bargaining committee voted unanimously to strike this morning in a telephone conference call with union officials in Toronto. Mike Gartner of the Rangers, a member of the committee, said when asked if players wanted to get over the crisis: "I don't think players want to 'get over it.' The vote to strike came from the players. We've been waiting to negotiate this contract." He said that the players have been willing to negotiate all week, but that a strike deadline was the most effective way to bring the owners to the table with serious proposals. Different Sets of Numbers  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The players voted two weeks ago to give the bargaining committee strike authorization. Since then, several team managements have said they will examine the possibility of using substitute players as replacements. Others have said the wording of their individual contracts obliges the players to play in post-season games and that the players will owe the owners money if the games are canceled. The last negotiating session was held last Friday in Toronto, when subcommittees for both sides met to exchange reports and projections about revenue. The players said the owners were making a lot of money. The owners said they were losing money. Their figures were $60 million apart. "Everybody's crunching numbers," said Steve Yzerman, the captain of the Detroit Red Wings and, like Gartner, a member of the bargaining committee. Yzerman spoke to his teammates this morning in a players-only meeting following practice for tonight's game with the Rangers. A Voice Against a Strike Advertisement Outside the locker rooms this morning was Ted Lindsay, an N.H.L. Hall of Famer who played for Detroit and Chicago and later was the general manager of the Red Wings. Lindsay takes something of the long view on the situation. Back in 1957, when he tried to form a players association, he took his plans to Jimmy Hoffa of the Teamsters' union, who told him that professional athletes didn't need a union. Lindsay was later traded to Chicago in a move many saw as punishment for his union activity. Now retired, Lindsay still follows hockey but said he was not sure he would continue. "If they ever strike," he said, "I've seen my last hockey game." SLAP SHOTS Because the threat of a strike dominated the agenda at the Board of Governors meeting, the owners were unable to vote on a proposal to transfer part ownership of the New York Islanders to a group of Long Island investors. If the proposal is approved, JOHN O. PICKETT JR.  will sell a minority ownership of the team to the local group, but it will acquire full managing control. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 21, 1992, on Page 1001031 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; March 30 Is Strike Date For Players In the N.H.L.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »