Advertisement By TIMOTHY W. SMITH and  For nearly four quarters, Warren Moon and the Minnesota Vikings' offense couldn't do anything tonight against Green Bay's smothering defense. They were held to 22 yards rushing; Moon was sacked 4 times and was hurried into throwing 2 interceptions. When it counted, though, the Vikings put together their only two sustained drives of the game and got two field goals from Fuad Reveiz -- a 29-yarder that tied the game at 10-10 with 17 seconds to play and a 27-yarder at 4 minutes 26 seconds into overtime -- to beat the Packers, 13-10. The Vikings' only touchdown of the game came at 6:25 of the first quarter when cornerback Anthony Parker picked up a fumbled interception by defensive end James Harris and returned it 23 yards for a 7-0 lead. Until the final 10 minutes of the game, the Vikings' offense operated in total futility. "It was a classic defensive struggle," said Viking Coach Dennis Green. "We've had a few games like that with the Green Bay Packers." Advertisement The bottom line is that Vikings (5-2) are now atop the N.F.C. Central, a game ahead of Chicago. Because five of their next seven games are at the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome, the Vikings have a clear shot at winning the division. Advertisement "That's a good position to be in, but we've got to take advantage of that," Moon said. "We've got to win those games. If we don't win them it doesn't mean anything to have five games at home." The Packers (3-4), who opened the season beating the Vikings by 16-10, are in a deep hole. They are looking up at Minnesota and Chicago. "I think it will go down to the wire," said Green Bay Coach Mike Holmgren. "I think we've been in this position before. Minnesota obviously has the edge at this particular time and they have a fine team. Now it's everybody else's job to try and play catch-up with them." Making matters worse for the Packers is the fact they have a gimpy quarterback on their hands. Brett Favre left the game in the second quarter with a bruised left hip and did not return. He was replaced by second-year quarterback Mark Brunell, who finished 11 of 24 for 79 yards passing and scored the Packers' only touchdown on a 5-yard run late in the half that helped give Green Bay a 10-7 halftime lead.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Brunell came in and looked pretty good," said Vikings strong safety Todd Scott. "He looked a lot better than Favre did. When he came in we didn't have any disrespect for him. We played him just like we played Favre." The Vikings blitzed him silly, as they did with Favre. But the Packers returned the favor to Moon, who said the pressure was coming mainly from ends Reggie White and Sean Jones. The Packers also used several run blitzes to take away the Vikings' rushing attack. "When you they get that kind of penetration it makes it very hard to run the ball," said Moon, who was 11 of 17 for 85 yards in the fourth quarter and 4 of 5 for 57 yards in overtime. "They forced me to throw the ball a lot more than I wanted to." Trailing by 10-7 with 5:32 to play, the Vikings got the ball at their 34-yard line and Moon went about saving the game. He deftly moved them down the field and the Vikings had a first-and-goal at the Packers' 8 with 1:27 to play. Minnesota picked up 4 yards on a pass from Moon to Cris Carter. Then, on second-and-goal, running back Amp Lee was dropped for a 7-yard loss by Jones and linebacker Bryce Paup. Moon threw incomplete to tight end Andrew Jordan and Reveiz tied the game with a 29-yard field goal with 17 seconds to play in regulation. Advertisement It wasn't enough time for Brunell, and the game went to overtime. The Vikings won the coin toss and Moon directed the winning drive against the Packers' zone defense. An 18-yard pass to Jordan and a 19-yarder to Lee were the key plays to help set up the game-winning kick. "As a quarterback this is what they pay me all the big bucks to do," said Moon, who was 31 of 50 for 271 yards passing over all. "Bring our team back and put us in a position to win." And tonight he did it masterfully. EXTRA POINTS DENNIS GREEN extended his record against N.F.C. Central teams to 16-4 since he took over as coach of the Vikings in 1992, including 9-1 at the Metrodome. . . . Green Bay's STERLING SHARPE caught a pass for the 93d straight game and made his 103d consecutive start. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 21, 1994, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL; Vikings Find Offense When It Matters Most.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »