Advertisement By IAN AUSTENJULY 4, 2014
 Money often determines where the Tour de France starts, with communities bidding for the right to host the first several days of the race. Exactly how much they pay the organizers is not made public, though the county of Yorkshire, England, has a £10 million, or $17 million, budget for this year’s start. Still, the decision by Tour organizers to take the race to Britain for the fourth time may go beyond financial calculations. Much of the Tour, which begins in Leeds on Saturday and ends in Paris on July 27, overlaps with soccer’s World Cup. But Britain’s unexpected rise as cycling’s superpower means that large and enthusiastic crowds are all but guaranteed, regardless of the distractions on the soccer field. Although British companies developed what came to be the bicycle’s dominant form, official disapproval of bike racing for much of its history meant that British technology was not matched by competitive success. Advertisement Time trials, which could more easily be run on the sly, dominated racing, leaving British riders ill prepared for road racing. And while occasional Britons shone at the Tour, British teams often verged on farce. In 1987, only four members of the ANC-Halfords team made it to Paris, with a high finish of 70th. As an added insult, the team folded, leaving the riders unpaid. Advertisement This year, Britain’s Team Sky starts the Tour as the sport’s best-financed, best-organized team, a source of envy rather than amused pity. Chris Froome, its leader and last year’s winner, is widely seen as the favorite in this year’s race. Left behind by the team is Bradley Wiggins, the winner in 2012. In addition, Brian Cookson, who was part of a group that used lottery money and a methodical plan to resuscitate Britain’s bankrupt cycling governing body beginning in 1996, will appear at the Tour as president of the International Cycling Union, the sport’s global governing body. “Britain has been successful the last years in world cycling,” Mark Cavendish, a British sprinter with 25 stage wins, said Thursday. “That is a massive part of why the Tour de France comes to the U.K.” It is not all good news. Like many, Cavendish noted that only four British riders were selected to ride in the Tour this year. Wiggins and Froome have been unusually public about their differences over the last few weeks Given that cycling is a team sport in which the prizes go to individuals, teams are prone to fratricide. The recently released film “Slaying the Badger” recounts the battle between the American Greg LeMond and his French teammate Bernard Hinault at the 1986 Tour. Wiggins and Froome are not at that level, but in an autobiography released in June, Froome complained about Wiggins’s moodiness and general lack of collegiality.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Wiggins, speaking to the BBC, all but said that he hoped Froome would crash in a pre-Tour race and suggested that Wiggins might be shopping for a new team next year. Froome did crash at the Critérium du Dauphiné last month, showing that his racing skills may lag behind his physical gifts, but he apparently sustained no serious injuries. Advertisement The fifth stage of this year’s Tour will be a particular worry for Froome and the riders from Team Sky assigned to protect him. It is a miniature version of Paris-Roubaix, a one-day race  held in April, and features sections of badly deformed cobbles that can challenge even the best bike handlers. Alberto Contador, probably Froome’s top competition, is known as a rider who is not only technically skilled but also a shrewd tactician, and he is supported by an experienced group of teammates. Among the other team leaders in this year’s race will be two Americans: Tejay van Garderen of BMC Racing Team, fifth over all in 2012 and a rider whose season has been marked by illness and injuries, and Andrew Talansky of Garmin-Sharp, a former runner from Miami who is in his fourth season as a professional. Talansky won the mountainous Dauphiné on its final stage partly because of work by his team and partly because Contador uncharacteristically waited too long to chase down a breakaway group that included Talansky. Talansky said Thursday that cycling, with its tactics, team element and equipment, was far more complex than his former sport. “Running is a very simple, very pure sport — you lace up your shoes; you go,” he said, though he added that the suffering in the final miles of a cycling stage was much the same as in running. In a twist, this year’s Tour will have only one time trial, and it will be on the day before the largely ceremonial finish in Paris. Talansky, who rode its route after finishing the Dauphiné, said he was looking forward to it. “It’s a strength course — there will be just no hiding on that day,” he said. “And I’m generally good at the end of a three-week race.” A version of this article appears in print on July 5, 2014, on Page D8 of the New York edition with the headline: The Tour de France Will Start in Britain, Which Seems Appropriate.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »