Advertisement By JACK BELLJUNE 28, 2014
 Tim Cahill proved, again, that he is a global ironman. After logging thousands of air miles helping Australia qualify for the 2014 World Cup in Brazil, then going from the United States back home to Sydney for training camp in May, on to Brazil (where he scored a stunning goal against the Netherlands) and back to New Jersey, Cahill could simply not sit still at Red Bull Arena in Harrison, N.J., on Friday night. “I spoke with the boss and he said ‘will you be available’ and I said of course I’ll be available,” Cahill said after the game, referring to Coach Mike Petke. “And here we are tonight, got 15 minutes, or whatever it was and just happy to be able to contribute to the team’s result today.” For the record, it was 12 minutes of normal time and a flash of a millisecond or two in stoppage time as Cahill did one of the things he does best: nodding a long pass from the defender Matt Miazga into the path of Bradley Wright-Phillips who scored his 12th goal of the Major League Soccer season in the 93rd minute as the Red Bulls rallied to tie Toronto, 2-2. It was the first match back for each team after a two-week break for the World Cup, a place where Cahill, 34, in only two games gave the Socceroos a spark. Cahill missed the third game because of a yellow card suspension. “I said if there was any way I could contribute, even just for team morale or just to be around the boys, but if you need me to play half an hour I’m ready,” Cahill said he told Petke. “I don’t play for plaudits, but tonight it was important, we were winning the game and then come back into it and over all when you contribute like that it makes a big difference to the result. And that’s pretty much what I wanted to do tonight. So for me it’s a good feeling that I could help the team get a good result.” Advertisement The Red Bulls took a 1-0 lead in the 36th minute when Peguy Luyindula headed a cross from Ambroise Oyongo, who was making his first M.L.S. start, past Toronto goalkeeper Joe Bendik. Toronto tied the score on a goal by Jermain Defoe in the 55th minute then took a 2-1 lead in the 72 when Gilberto sent a screaming free kick from about 25 yards past a stunned Luis Robles in the Red Bulls’ goal. A bit later, Petke looked down his bench and could not resist calling on Cahill. “I was hoping to bring Tim on in the 88th minute, up, 3-0, so the fans could clap him for the wonderful World Cup he had,” Petke said. “Obviously things change with the score, with the way the game went and we felt to bring Tim on for 15-20 minutes perhaps something could happen and obviously it did at the end.” On the tying play, Miazga, 18, part of a youthful back line that included the rookie Chris Duvall, 22, and Oyongo, 23, sent a long ball into the Toronto penalty area. Cahill outmuscled two defenders and left a glancing header for Wright-Phillips who hit the ball first time at the far post.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “As soon as I won two headers before that they didn’t want to come and challenge and have the physical battle, but once I seen them peel off they went backwards without looking where there man was, and it was just nice to put it in a good area for Bradley to finish,” Cahill said. Advertisement After the completion of the first round in Brazil, Cahill arrived back in New Jersey early Thursday morning. He did not train with the team before Friday’s game, and while Petke tried to tamp down expectations that he would play, Cahill was champing at the bit to get back into action. “I think the best thing, more than anything, was my decision to come to the M.L.S., to play internationally in my third World Cup, and the calculated decision being great domestically,” Cahill said. “The league, the club, the fans, the success we had last season now looking for more success. “And on top of that, having two of the best moments in my footballing history with a goal against Chile, and one against the Netherlands. I’m proud that the M.L.S. and New York Red Bulls have played a part in that. I know people were questioning, I left the Premier League to play in another World Cup, to be in a great league, and you look at the way the American national team’s going, the amount of M.L.S. player’s playing there, it’s justified for these boys and they’re really flaying the flag well, and hopefully they can do us proud again by going to the next level.” “I regret nothing.” Cahill said. “I played in three World Cup’s, had some good times, but over all, yeah, I’m happy. That’s the way football goes, you just look forward to the future and enjoy your time as a footballer.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »