Advertisement By SANDRA BAILEY and  The United States men's volleyball team, those guys with the chips on their shoulders and the stubble on their heads, have been talking for most of these Olympics about fighting the power. They finally got their chance tonight and came out swinging. And it wasn't the $1-million-a-year professional Steve Timmons or the loud and proud reserve Bob Samuelson who came through. It was Brent Hilliard, a senior to be at Long Beach State University, who served the final ball that could not be handled, giving the United States a 9-15, 16-14, 15-11, 15-13 upset of Italy, the defending World Cup champion and the gold- medal favorite. "It's one of those things you always look forward to when you are not a starter," said Hilliard, a 22-year-old playing in his first Olympics. The team spokesman, Rich Wanninger, called it "a message game," and indeed it had no bearing on the rest of the Olympics, at least not officially. The United States had already clinched a spot in the quarterfinals, where it will meet the Unified Team, and Italy came in undefeated and knowing that the Netherlands would be next up on Wednesday. The other quarterfinalists -- Spain, Brazil, Japan and Cuba -- had also already been set. Advertisement These two teams are almost sure to meet again in the medal round, so this victory could only help, Timmons said. It served other purposes, too. Advertisement "We got a lot of guys in the match," Timmons said, "and we got Bryan Ivie back." Ivie, a middle blocker, went out in the team's opener against Japan with a knee injury and had not played until he came off the bench in the second set tonight. YACHTING  4 Medals for Americans BARCELONA, Spain, Aug. 3 (Special to The New York Times) -- Julia Trotman is adept on any form of water, frozen or liquid. She was the captain of the Harvard University women's ice hockey team three years ago, and today she captured a bronze medal in the Europe class in the 1992 Summer Games' sailing competition.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Spain won three gold medals, but the United States also had a good day in sailing, winning four other medals in the five classes decided today. Brian Ledbetter of San Diego captured the silver in the men's Flying Dutchman class. Moran Reeser of Miami and Kevin Burnham of Coral Gables, Fla., won the silver in the men's 470 class. J. J. Isler of San Diego and Pamela Healy of Port Richmond, Calif., won the bronze in the women's 470. And Randy Smyth of Mary Esther, Fla., and Keith Notary of Merritt Island, Fla., won the silver in the Tornado class. The French boat of Yves Loday and Nicolas Henard came in second today to win the Tornado gold. Mitch Booth and John Forbes of Australia won the bronze. ARCHERY  Title for a Frenchman BARCELONA, Spain, Aug. 3 (AP) -- Sebastien Flute, a 20-year-old Frenchman, defeated a South Korean high school student, Chung Jae-Hun, today to win the gold medal in men's individual archery. Flute defeated the 18-year-old Chung, 110-107, in the 12-shot final round. Another 18-year-old, Simon Terry of Britain, defeated Bertil Grov of Norway, 109-103, for the bronze. EQUESTRIAN  U.S. Bronze in Dressage BARCELONA, Spain, Aug. 3 (AP) -- Germany lived up to expectations and won the gold medal in the Olympic equestrian team dressage competition. Germany won with 5,224 points. The Netherlands took the silver with 4,742 points. The United States, led by an impressive performance by Carol Lavell of Fairfax, Va., took the bronze with 4,643. The United States has won only one other dressage medal in Olympic history, a bronze in 1976. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 4, 1992, on Page B00014 of the National edition with the headline: BARCELONA: Roundup; Bald Heads Send Italy an Upsetting Message.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »