Advertisement By CLIFTON BROWN and  Whenever the Knicks play the Nets, players on both sides talk a tough game. Sometimes, they don't even wait until the game starts. Take Knicks forward Anthony Mason, who was busy today anticipating Tuesday night's showdown against the Nets at Madison Square Garden. What did Mason think about the Nets' signing of Rick Mahorn today? "He'll get beat up, too," Mason said of Mahorn, a veteran free-agent power forward, after today's Knicks practice. "They thought they needed more physical players, more banging, but we've got a whole entourage here. It's just going to be war this whole season, not just with the Nets." Mason, who played one season with the Nets before being cut in 1990, was looking forward to reintroducing himself. Knicks guard Rolando Blackman, who strained a muscle in his left calf during today's practice, will not play against New Jersey. His status was described as day-to-day. "We expect a physical, competitive game," said Mason. "When I was in New Jersey they played the Knicks well every time. The only thing I regretted over there is that I didn't get the opportunity to show what I could do. Now they get to sit back and look at me play across the bridge. Advertisement "I don't have any enemies over there. I'm just going to beat them up tomorrow." Riley Goes Against Daly Advertisement Obviously, there will not be much smiling when the two teams take the floor Tuesday. Local basketball fans have been anticipating this renewed rivalry for some time, especially with Chuck Daly now coaching the Nets. It will be Daly versus Pat Riley, Derrick Coleman banging bodies with Mason and Charles Oakley, and Kenny Anderson getting a chance to dazzle the New York crowd. The Knicks are 2-0 this season, the Nets 1-1. The Knicks won the 1991-92 season series, 3-2, but New Jersey won the last two meetings, part of its late-season drive to the playoffs. With both teams feeling they have improved, this year's rivalry may be even more intense. "Obviously, geographically we're in the same area," Riley said. "From that standpoint, there is a rivalry there and it's good. Fans are aware of it, the media is aware of it, and it's going to be very competitive."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Daly and Riley crossed paths many times when Riley coached the Los Angeles Lakers and Daly coached the Detroit Pistons. In 1988, the Lakers and Riley won a thrilling seven-game National Basketball championship series against the Pistons. A season later, Daly and the Pistons got revenge, sweeping the Lakers for the championship. Last season, the two coaches battled again when the Knicks edged the Pistons, 3-2, in the opening round of the playoffs. When Daly complained about the officiating early in that series, Riley said that Daly was, "whining." But the two coaches have expressed mutual respect for each other many times, and Riley said he held no hard feelings from last year. "It's called coachese," Riley said of their back-and-forth dialogue last year. "Both Chuck and I were saying a lot and saying nothing. That's part of the game. He knows it." While the players may not cooperate, Riley hoped both sides would concentrate more on basketball than talking trash Tuesday. "I think there was too much talking going on last year," Riley said. When these two teams last met, in March, Nets guard Drazen Petrovic held a running conversation with former Knicks' guard Gerald Wilkins throughout the Nets' 96-94 overtime victory. The Knicks were amused by Petrovic's trash-talking because they had difficulty understanding some of it. Petrovic is a native of Croatia and speaks English with an accent. "He hates to be played physically," Knicks fguard John Starks said of Petrovic. "Me and Gerald played him physically and that kind of got to him. But he's the type of player that thrives on players talking noise to him, because he wants to prove that players from overseas can come over here and play." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 10, 1992, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: Knicks vs. Nets: Get Set For First Shots of the War.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »