Advertisement By JENNIFER FREY The Rangers have been humiliated by the expansion Tampa Bay Lightning this week. They have been chastised by their captain, Mark Messier. They have been drilled mercilessly in practice by their coach, Roger Neilson. All of this, at the very least, was supposed to shame the Rangers into playing better hockey. Of course, Messier, who publicly criticized the Rangers' system and called for improved team chemistry after Monday night's 5-1 debacle against the Lightning, said he was not demanding an immediate turnaround. There was no deadline for change, he said. It's a good thing Messier tempered his expectations because the Rangers looked far from having found all the answers last night. It wasn't as bad as Monday night, but it wasn't pretty either. Flashy a few times, flat many more, the Rangers gave up four third-period goals at Madison Square Garden and were beaten, 7-4, by the Washington Capitals. Three Games, No Victories Advertisement New York, which got all its goals on its first six shots of the game, has now gone three games (0-2-1) without a victory. The Capitals, who have gone four games withlout losing, finally beat a Patrick Division opponent this season, coming back from a 4-2 deficit after one period. Advertisement The Ranger highlights last night were a pretty two-on-one goal scored by Tony Amonte and set up by Messier in the first period and the continued explosive performance of Darren Turcotte. The lowlights were more abundant, the most notable being the continued decline of goaltender Mike Richter, whose appearances since John Vanbiesbrouck suffered a groin pull must be giving the team president, Neil Smith, pause over his long-term plans to use Vanbiesbrouck as trade bait. "I think we played better, there's no question about that," Messier said. "There are some things we did well tonight. But, like I said before, it took a month and a half to get to this point, so it's not going to rectify itself overnight." Before the game, Smith said he could only hope the controversy surrounding this club ended up being motivational. At that time, down the hall, the music playing in the Rangers' locker room was so loud the door hummed to the touch and the Capitals could hear it outside their own dressing room. Perhaps it was supposed to be inspirational, an attempt to produce some adrenaline in a team that showed so little life against Tampa Bay. Perhaps someone hoped the excessive sound would drown out the locker-room griping that some players see as the chief reason the Rangers lack chemistry, both on and off the ice. No Goals After First Period  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "When all the smoke has cleared, we have to have 24 guys in here who are all pulling for each other and playing for each other," Messier said before the game. "I don't really think it's caused that big a furor, but, then again, there's nothing wrong with a little controversy. I just hope it changes some things." Not enough changed last night. The Rangers started with four goals on seven shots in the first period, then failed to score again the rest of the night. It was the player having the least problems -- at least on the ice -- who got the Rangers going. Turcotte, the frequent subject of recent trade rumors, tallied twice on even strength to extend his goal-scoring streak to six games, the longest current streak in the league. Turcotte scored his first with the Rangers trailing by 1-0 seven minutes into the game. When Mike Ridley tried to pass out to Shawn Anderson from the boards, Turcotte cut down the airborne puck and slapped it past Washington goaltender Jim Hrivnak. Advertisement After the Capitals retook the lead just over a minute and a half later, Turcotte responded with another goal at the 10:43 mark. The Rangers' followed Turcotte's goal with two more tallies -- one by Brian Leetch on the power play, the other by Amonte -- to take a 4-2 lead at the end of the first period. After that, though, things went downhill. "I'm angry and frustrated and disappointed after every time we lose a game, and tonight's no different," said Messier, who was visibly upset afterward. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 12, 1992, on Page B00017 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; Uninspired Rangers Don't Learn Their Lessons.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »