Advertisement By TIMOTHY W. SMITH Teams are listed in order of predicted finish. A.F.C. EAST BUFFALO BILLS 1993: Finished 12-4. Lost, 30-13, to Dallas in the SuperBowl STRENGTHS: A high-energy, experienced offense with talent at all the skill positions. Running back Thurman Thomas is still the most versatile running back in the league. And Bruce Smith is still one of the most respected pass rushers. WEAKNESSES: Quarterback Jim Kelly is battling tendinitis in his throwing shoulder. He's been beaten up in the last four years and has weathered most of it. Tackle Howard (House) Ballard went to Seattle as a free agent. His replacement, Jerry Crafts at 6-6, 351 pounds, is as big as a luxury liner, but is inexperienced. OUTLOOK: The Bills are confident that they can make it back to another Super Bowl. They said the same thing last year. And the year before that, and the year before that . . . Take them seriously. MIAMI DOLPHINS 1993: Finished 9-7. STRENGHTS: The secondary is strong with cornerback Troy Vincent, returning from a knee injury, and the free-agent acquisitions of cornerback Tyrone Braxton and safety Gene Atkins. WEAKNESSES: The rushing attack isn't going to send shivers through anyone. Running back Terry Kirby was a pleasant surprise as a rookie last year. But they need more from him, Keith Byars and Mark Higgs to have a decent threat in the rushing department. OUTLOOK: Everyone wants to see how quarterback Dan Marino returns from the torn Achilles' tendon that sidelined him for most of last season. If Marino returns to form, the Dolphins stand a good shot at Making the Super Bowl. INDIANAPOLIS COSTS 1993: Finished 4-12. STRENGTHS: The linebacking corps has a mixture of youth and experience and is the cornerstone of the defense. Watch Tony Bennett, a free agent from Green Bay, as a pass rusher. First-round pick Marshall Faulk has put some teeth in the rushing attack. WEAKNESSES: It's fair to say that Jim Harbaugh doesn't have the gun that Jeff George had at quarterback. The problem for Harbaugh is no one is sure what type of quarterback he is after being browbeaten for most of his seven years in Chicago. We'll soon find out. OUTLOOK: If Faulk can take some of the pressure off Harbaugh, like Thurman Thomas does from Jim Kelly in Buffalo, then the Colts can do some things. How much can they get accomplished? Who knows. But as long as Faulk is in the mix, it should be fun to watch. NEW YORK JETS: 1993: Finished 8-8. STRENGHTS: The offense could be a powerhouse. Running back Johnny Johnson and tight end Johnny Mitchell are gamebreakers. Receiver Rob Moore is developing into a big-play man. Linebacker Mo Lewis might be the most underrated player at his position in the league. WEAKNESSES: Rookie cornerback Aaron Glenn, who will start opposite veteran James Hasty in the secondary, could be liability because of his lack of experience. The Jets still don't have a dominant pass rusher on the defensive line. OUTLOOK: For the Jets to make a run at the playoffs two players must stay healthy and have Pro Bowl-caliber years -- quarterbck Boomer Esiason and defensive end Jeff Lageman. NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS: 1993: Finished 5-11. STRENGTHS: Running back Marion Butts could be the switch that turns on the lights for the Patriots' offense and take pressure off second-year quarterback Drew Bledsoe. The secondary won't be pushovers now that cornerback Ricky Reynolds and safety Myron Guyton have been added. WEAKNESSES: The Patriots' defense finished No. 22 against the run last season, which bothered Coach Bill Parcells to no end. Perhaps one of those monster linebackers, Vincent Brown and Willie McGinest, can plug up those holes. OUTLOOK: The only thing standing in the Patriots' way of being a consistent winner is time. They're a fairly young team that needs time to build experience and confidence. They'll be better than 5-11 this year. A.F.C. CENTRAL HOUSTON OILERS 1993: Finished 12-4. STRENGTHS: The offensive line remains strong, anchored by veteran center Bruce Matthews. The secondary is also tough with safety Bubba McDowell and cornerback Cris Dishman. Running back Gary Brown was a splendid surprise last year rushing for 1,002 yards in just eight games. WEAKNESSES: The Oilers took a big hit in the pass-rush department with the departures of defensive ends William Fuller and Sean Jones. That kind of talent depletion isn't easily filled. OUTLOOK: Quarterback Cody Carison was a very capable backup to Warren Moon. Now, Carlson is the starter. There's a big difference. Moon had run that offense for 10 years. Carlson knows it, but how well can he run it week in and week out? PITTSBURGH STEELERS 1993: Finished 9-7. STRENGHTS: Barry Foster is a big-time running back who is used to carrying the load. A pair of Pro Bowlers, linebacker Greg Lloyd and cornerback Rod Woodson, give Pittsburgh one of the fastest defenses in the league. WEAKNESSES: The receiving corps doesn't give defenses nearly as many headaches as it should. They're hoping first-round pick Charles Johnson can rectify that situation. OUTLOOK: When Foster went down with an ankle injury last year so did the Steelers' offense. They need Foster healthy if they're going to have a chance at making the playoffs. CLEVELAND BROWNS 1993: Finished 7-9. STRENGTHS: The Browns ranked No. 12 in defense in the league last year and a big part of that was tackle Michael Dean Perry. Safety Eric Turner, who had five interceptions last year, should help the defense. WEAKNESSES: Whether it's Vinny Testaverde or Mark Rypien at quarterback, it doesn't matter. The Browns aren't going to get any sparks from the position. OUTLOOK: The Browns have always promised to find a role for mighty mile running back Eric Metcalf. They're promising again this year to make him a prominent part of the offense. That would be an entertaining diversion from another possible quarterback controversy. CINCINNATI BENGALS 1993: Finished 3-13. STRENGTHS: A defense that can boast six No. 1 picks, including this year's numero uno, Dan (Big Daddy) Wilkinson. With Wilkinson and Danny Copeland, a first-rounder in 1993, at the tackles, the Bengals have the makings of one of the most dominant defensive fronts in the league. WEAKNESSES: The offense finished 27th in the league last year and the same group returns intact. The offensive line is porous. Quarterback David Klinger is still stumbling around in the dark. Running back Harold Green is a bright spot. But how much can one man do? OUTLOOK: Last year, General Manager Mike Brown called his team "The gang that couldn't shoot straight." The same can still be said of the offense, but the defense can draw a bead and knock out anyone. Unfortunately for Cincinnati, it takes three units to make a whole team. A.F.C. WEST LOS ANGELES RAIDERS 1993: Finished 10-6. STRENGTHS: A corps of receivers that could qualify for the Olympic sprint relay team. The defense has some emerging stars in linemen Chester McGlockton, Anthony Smith and Nolan Harrison. The secondary is solid with cornerbacks Terry McDaniel and Lionel Washington and safety Eddie Anderson. WEAKNESSES: The lack of a rushing attack kept them from beating the Bills at Buffalo in the playoffs last year. The Raiders have added Harvey Williams from Kansas City as a way of beefing up the deficiency. Ty Montgomery will start at halfback and Napoleon McCallum is the fullback. OUTLOOK: The Black and Silver won't have many occasions to be black and blue this year, because they'll be the ones handing out the licks. With the speed they have they should run right past a lot of teams. The key will be whether quarterback Jeff Hostetler will be able to find those fleet-footed receivers. DENVER BRONCOS 1993: Finished 9-7. STRENGTHS: The offense took a giant step forward with the addition of speedy receivers Anthony Miller and Mike Pritchard. They're joining quarterback John Elway, running back Rod Bernstine and tight end Shannon Sharpe, who had 81 receptions last year. WEAKNESSES: The defense finished 19th in the league last year and lost cornerback Tyrone Braxton. Free safety Steve Atwater can only do so much. Free agents Ray Crockett and Ben Smith will start at the corners. OUTLOOK: The only thing that can stand in the Broncos' way this year is their defense. If it can hold their own, the offense will stand tall. With Miller and Pritchard as targets, Elway could be in for another big year in terms of numbers. But he'd rather have a shot at a Super Bowl championship and the Bronocs have a fighting chance. KANSAS CHIEFS 1993: Finished 11-5. STRENGTHS: The defensive front seven, which includes linebacker Derrick Thomas, defensive end Neil Smith and tackles Joe Phillips and Dan Saleaumua, is one of the toughest. Quarterback Joe Montana is 38 years old, but when he's healthy and on, he's still one of the best. WEAKNESSES: Greg Hill, the first-round pick, is going to be asked to handle the rushing load, because as good as Marcus Allen is he's not you enough to carry the ball 200 times a season. OUTLOOK: Quarterback Steve Bono was one of the smartest moves the Chiefs could have made. ONe good lick, like the one that knocked him 9out of the A.F.C. championship game at Buffalo last season, and Montana is on the shelf for a while. Bono knows the offense and can run it. The Chiefs are going to be in the thick of the playoff race. SEATTLE SEAHAWKS 1993: Finished 6-10. STRENGTHS: Defensively, the Seahawks can display some of the best players in the league at their positions. Defensive tackle Cortez Kennedy and linebacker Rufus Porter are great pass rushers and safety Eugene Robinson is a big hitter. Quarterback Rick Mirer is beginning to emerge and running back Chris Warren has put together back-to-back 1,000-yard rushing seasons. WEAKNESSES: Receiver Brian Blades, who had 80 catches and three touchdowns last year, needs a counterbalance. The Seahawks acquired tackle Howard Ballard to shore up their offensive line, but they lost tackle Andy Heck. OUTLOOK: The Seahawks are a mystery team. They have a collection of fine, young players, but they don't seem to be able to get it together to build a consistent winner. With Kennedy and Mirer, the Seahawks have the cornerstones for success. But the team remains an undeveloped project. SAN DIEGO CHARGERS 1993: Finished 8-8. STRENGTHS: Defensive linemen Leslie O'Neal and Chris Mims give the Chargers defense its bark and linebacker Junior Seau gives it the bit. Natrone Means was a pleasant surprise as a rookie, rushing for 645 yards. WEAKNESSES: The offense has been depleted of explosiveness by the departure of running back Marion Butts and receiver Anthony Miller. Quarterback Stan Humphries is workmanlike and gets the job done, but with fewer weapons to work with he's going to have to work magic this year. OUTLOOK: The chargers aren't nearly as good as they were two years ago when they won the A.F.C. West. They're also a much different team with the loss of Rod Bernstine, John Friesz, Butts and Miller. They'll have a difficult time getting anywhere in this division, especially with the Raiders, Chiefs and the Broncos sitting on top of them. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 4, 1994, on Page 8008008 of the National edition with the headline: N.F.L. '94; American Football Conference.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »