Advertisement By JOSEPH DURSO The big horses were gathering or working or racing yesterday along the road to the Breeders' Cup, with its $10 million in purses and seven landmark races, which will be run on Nov. 5 with championships on the line in every division of the sport. At Louisiana Downs, two of the candidates for the Breeders' Cup Classic dueled down the homestretch of the $750,000 Super Derby and finished about one long neck apart: Soul of the Matter, who ran fifth in the Kentucky Derby, held off the customary late move by Concern, who nearly caught Holy Bull in the Travers in August and missed by the same margin yesterday. Bay Street Star was third and Meadow Flight, who chased Holy Bull in the Haskell in July, ran out of the money. Soul of the Matter, owned by the composer Burt Bacharach, ran the mile and a quarter under Kent Desormeaux in a slow 2:031/5 and paid $6.40 for $2 to win. He has run in the money six times in seven starts this year. His trainer, Richard Mandella, said after the race, "We'll definitely go on to the Breeders' Cup Classic." Meanwhile, a field of six or eight was taking shape for the $750,000 Jockey Club Gold Cup next Saturday, the main event of Belmont's preview of the Breeders' Cup races. Advertisement The likely starters are Tabasco Cat, who still has a chance to challenge the vacationing Holy Bull for the Horse of the Year title; the Kentucky Derby winner, Go for Gin; Devil His Due; Colonial Affair, and Kissin Kris. Those listed as probable starters: Bruce's Mill and Pistols and Roses.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Allen Jerkens reported that Devil His Due worked one mile yesterday morning in 1:41 and confirmed that Jerry Bailey would again ride Devil in place of Mike Smith, who chose Holy Bull in the Woodward last month. Nick Zito reported that Go for Gin worked five-eighths of a mile in one minute flat. And Scotty Schulhofer said Colonial Affair worked five furlongs in 1:012/5 . Wayne Lukas sent word from Kentucky that Tabasco Cat, who won the $400,000 Kentucky Cup Classic last Saturday, would arrive at Belmont Park on Tuesday. And Ron McAnally confirmed from California that three of his stars would land in New York on the same day: On Target, a candidate for the juvenile championship, who is booked into the Champagne Stakes next Saturday; and the fillies Comstock Queen, headed for the Frizette, and Potridee, who is aiming for the Beldame. FINISH LINES Advertisement Jade Flush, who ran fifth in the Alabama and fifth in the Gazelle, made her debut on grass yesterday and scored a wire-to-wire upset over some fancy fillies and won the Rare Perfume Handicap by 6 1/2 lengths over Lady Affirmed. The 3-year-old filly, who is trained by NICK ZITO, went off at 11-1 but with ROBBIE DAVIS riding, she led every step of the mile and one-sixteenth, which she ran in 1:463/5 on soft turf. Saxuality finished third, Knocknock fourth and the French star Grafin seventh. Jade Flush paid $25 for $2. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 2, 1994, on Page 8008004 of the National edition with the headline: HORSE RACING; 'Soul' Wins Super Derby After Duel.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »