So Game 6 of the World Series was full of enough thrills for a year of amusement park visits, the crazy, sloppy humanness of the first six innings followed by the wild, whose-turn-is-it-to-be-a-superhero final innings that seemed able to go on forever until David Freese’s towering, preposterous home run dropped onto the lawn beyond Busch Stadium’s center-field fence. It left only one question remaining: How do you top that in Game 7? The Cardinals’ 10-9, 11-inning victory was the kind of game that almost defied description, but, oh my gosh, who wouldn’t want to try to describe it? Jayson Stark of ESPN.com called it arguably the greatest World Series game ever played. Jeff Passan of Yahoo.com details the amazing ending and believes it will live in sports lore forever. Scott Miller of CBSSports.com dares to believe the drama will continue right into Game 7. To The St. Louis Post-Dispatch’s Bryan Burwell, it was Christmas and New Year’s and every other delightful holiday rolled into one. The details are worth savoring, starting with a video of Freese’s crowning moment, with the knowledge that he is the lone Cardinal that is also from St. Louis, making him a hometown hero beyond anyone’s dreams, writes Joe Lemire on SI.com. He’s a hometown hero squared because the Cardinals wouldn’t have even been in extra innings if not for Freese’s ninth-inning triple. It was amazing that the Cardinals had been down to their final strike twice, but as Bernie Miklasz writes in The St. Louis Post-Dispatch, this team never seems to run out of back-from-the-brink moments.  The flip side, of course, was the agony of the Rangers going from the best moment in franchise history to the worst moment, writes Randy Galloway in The Fort Worth Star-Telegram. They had their fairy tale ending all written when Josh Hamilton homered in the 10th inning, writes Jerry Crasnick on ESPN.com, but the Cardinals just had theirs a little later. The crushing moment actually was in the ninth, writes SI.com’s Tom Verducci, when Nelson Cruz’s inexplicable defensive gaffe was Buckner-esque. Manager Ron Washington was left trying to urge the Rangers to turn the page to Game 7, writes Danny Knobler on CBSSports.com, but how do you come back from that? The answer is, you usually don’t, but logic hasn’t made an appearance in the playoffs yet, so why would it come in now? Most of the rest of the sports news seemed so unheroic by comparison, but hockey did throw in its highest-scoring game in 15 years: Winnipeg’s 9-8 victory over Philadelphia. You can watch all 17 goals here, then watch Flyers goalie Ilya Bryzgalov’s postgame therapy/self-flagellation session. The N.B.A. could offer only a glimmer of hope that the lockout might end soon (sigh), and the N.C.A.A. passed a slate of reforms to try to improve its universally disparaged system and appear something other than feckless and exploitative. But all of that fell in the background at Texas A&M, where the basketball coach Billy Kennedy announced he has Parkinson’s disease. Kennedy could have used a little joy on Thursday, so you sort of hope against the odds that he’s a Cardinals fan. Because that group had a lot of joy to go around. Follow Leading Off on Twitter: twitter.com/zinsernyt The New York Times reporters Tyler Kepner, Ben Shpigel, Jack Curry and Joe Lapointe, along with their Times colleagues, will bring baseball fans inside the run up to the 2008 baseball season with access, analysis and the latest updates from spring training. Tyler Kepner has covered the Yankees for The New York Times since 2002.  He joined The Times in 2000 as the Mets beat writer. A native of Philadelphia and a graduate of Vanderbilt University, Kepner has also covered the Angels for the Riverside Press-Enterprise in California and the Mariners for the Seattle Post-Intelligencer. He lives in Connecticut with his wife and their four children. Ben Shpigel has covered the Mets for The Times since 2005. Before then, he was a staff writer for the Dallas Morning News for two years. He also worked at The News Journal in Wilmington, Del., and for the Atlanta Journal-Constitution.  Shpigel received a bachelor's degree in English and journalism from Emory University and a master's degree in journalism from Columbia University. He and his wife, Rebecca, live in Manhattan. Jack Curry has covered baseball for the The New
York Times for 18 seasons.  Since 1998, he has served as the newspaper's national baseball writer.  Before that, Curry covered the Yankees from 1991-1997.  He was also the beat writer for the New Jersey Nets' 1990-1991 season and covered college basketball, college football and wrote for the Metro section. Born in Jersey City, N.J., Curry graduated from Fordham University. He and his wife, Pamela, live in New Jersey. 
			This blog’s regular features, including live game analysis, news and notes from Tyler Kepner, David Waldstein and others, can now be found on the baseball section of our website.Read more… 
			The free-agent second baseman Robinson Cano is reportedly still seeking a 10-year deal for $310 million, figures the Yankees are said to be unwilling to meet. Read more… 
			When asked what he has done thus far in the off-season, Mets General Manager Sandy Alderson responded with a joke. Read more… 
			The Mets maybe should, but most assuredly won’t, defy all expectations and make a legitimate bid to lure Robinson Cano away from the Yankees.Read more… 
			The Yankees are waiting to hear whether Curtis Granderson will accept their qualifying offer, and set their outfield for 2014, or test the market and send the Yankees chasing another free agent. Read more… Follow Advertisement