Advertisement By MURRAY CHASS Bud Selig, baseball's acting commissioner, hinted yesterday that he may soon directly enter the negotiations with the players in an effort to end the three-week-old strike. As he lamented the stalled state of the talks in a telephone interview, Selig was asked if he thought it was time for him to meet with Donald Fehr, the players' labor leader. "My only response," he replied, "is that's a very good question." A minute later he added, "Each day I review everything, and I will do that." As chairman of the nine-owner executive council, which rules baseball in the absence of a commissioner, Selig in effect has been the commissioner for just about two years. He was so designated after Fay Vincent resigned at the owners' request on Labor Day 1992. Advertisement Until now, Selig, owner of the Milwaukee Brewers, has chosen to remain away from the bargaining table, consulting long-distance with Richard Ravitch, the clubs' chief labor executive; the council, the owners' labor relations committee, which he also heads, and the owners generally. Advertisement He deliberately did not name himself to a group of 12 owners and other club executives who met with players at the bargaining table over two days last week in the most recent bargaining sessions, if those meetings could be labeled as such. But he said at the time he was watching the situation and would join the talks if he thought the timing was right. Based on what he did and didn't say yesterday, he is seriously considering making that move now. "The frustrating thing for me," he said, "is the inability to sit down and discuss the problems." If he decides to sit down and have that discussion directly himself, he probably would do it around the middle of next week. "If he wants to get involved, that's his judgment to make," Fehr said yesterday. "It's certainly fine with us." Fehr has wondered publicly and privately why Selig hasn't stepped in before this. Last week, he only half jokingly suggested that maybe the talks should be moved to Milwaukee.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. A touch of irony would accompany Selig to the table. It was a belief held by him and Jerry Reinsdorf of the Chicago White Sox that the commissioner should not be involved in labor that prompted them to ask Vincent in May 1992 to relinquish his authority in that area. Vincent refused, but that incident led to the move to oust him, Selig, Reinsdorf and Ravitch believed that commissioners have insinuated themselves into labor negotiations unfairly and to the detriment of the clubs. They cited Vincent during the 1990 lockout and Peter Ueberroth during the 1985 strike as examples, contending that those commissioners undermined the clubs' bargaining position and helped produce an agreement that favored the players. In this instance, of course, Selig is an owner as well as the acting commissioner. He has been instrumental in devising and directing management's labor strategy. Advertisement But in his ruling position, he stands to become the first commissioner to lose a World Series. The only year the World Series wasn't played, once it was instituted in 1903, was in 1904, and baseball did not have a commissioner then. "Given the fact that I'm a history major, and I view everything in life from the perspective of history, I am saddened by that," Selig said in response to a question about the Series possibility. "On the other hand, I'm saddened if we do something that is not only not meaningful but continues this course of economic destruction. "While the short-term pain saddens me greatly, we're in a position where the long-term pain and damage would be even worse. I find that settlements in the past that we did just to settle really do everybody a disservice." Citing Neville Chamberlain, he continued: "When people settle just to settle or to appease, history is clear. Yes, of course that saddens me. And it's a burden. But on the other hand, not dealing with the problem is a worse burden." He doesn't want to lose the World Series, Selig said, neither for baseball nor for himself, but it would be worth it if the struggle to settle the dispute leads to an agreement that would enable baseball to go "on to greater heights in a lot of cities as a result of having the courage to endure short-term pain. That's how you have to view things. There's no other way to answer it." Nothing happened yesterday, meanwhile, to move the two sides closer to an agreement. They spoke with the mediators by telephone but with no productive results. The unofficial initiative of Jerry McMorris, owner of the Colorado Rockies, apparently continued but also with no immediate success. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 2, 1994, on Page B00007 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Selig May Take a Part In Strike Talks.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »