Advertisement  George Young, the Giants' general manager, testified today that the National Football League's free-agency system works because it provides continuity. "One of the most important things any organization can have is continuity from coach to player to personnel," said Young, a witness for the league in an antitrust trial brought by eight players. "Players have to relate to each other as a unity because it's a team sport. They make a team, not play on a team. You have to keep players as long as you can. You can't have a bus station where players are coming and going." At issue in the trial is the league's free-agency system. The players say the system is unlawful and restricted their earning power and movement in the two years cited, 1990 and 1991. Under the system, known as Plan B, 37 players on each team's roster are protected and the rest are free to negotiate contracts with any team. Protected players whose contracts have expired can also talk with other teams, but their old teams have the right to match any offer. If a protected player leaves, the old team must be compensated. Advertisement The N.F.L., now in its second week of presenting its case in the six-week-old trial, began questioning Young this afternoon, after Commissioner Paul Tagliabue completed more than 18 hours of testimony over three days.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Tagliabue said this morning that for unlimited free agency to work top players would have to be willing to go to weaker teams, "and that's a questionable assumption," he said. He admitted, however, that there are generally no penalties for coaches moving to new jobs though coaches, too, effect competitive balance. Advertisement The commissioner also said that if there were no restrictions on free agents, several smaller cities would have trouble surviving. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 5, 1992, on Page B00017 of the National edition with the headline: FOOTBALL; Giants' Young Stresses Continuity.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »