Advertisement By JACK CURRY and  When teams play the Brewers, there are no secrets. Whether they are leading, losing, tied or tired, they run and run. The Yankees knew the Brewers would run recklessly tonight. Their job was to stop them. But stopping base stealers has been a glaring weakness for the Yankees and they failed to cope again tonight as the Brewers raced to two runs in the first inning after pivotal stolen bases and then kept running to a 4-1 victory at County Stadium. It looked ugly when Pat Listach and Darryl Hamilton breezed around the bases and scored before the first inning was over. And it didn't get better for the Yanks even though Scott Kamiemiecki overcame an erratic start to pitch a decent seven-hitter. He was deprived of the chance to win three straight for the first time in his career because of a forgettable first inning and because Ricky Bones tamed the Yankees on three hits in seven innings. Getting the Job Done Advertisement "You have to give them some credit," Kamieniecki said. "They know what they have to do, and they go ahead and do it." Advertisement The Brewers did enough to snap their five-game losing streak against the Yankees, remain four and a half games behind the first-place Blue Jays and inflate their league-leading stolen-base total to 203 with three steals in four attempts. The Yankees did little to defend against Milwaukee's running game and even less against Bones. In his first start in 23 days, Bones continued his mastery over the Yankees and gained his first victory since July 18. He has now yielded two earned runs in 18 2/3 innings against them this year for a 0.99 earned run average, but the Yankees were unimpressed by the rookie with the decent fastball and little else. "That guy should never beat us," Mel Hall said. "I think we did more than he did to get us out, but he got us out. That's all that counts." Said Manager Buck Showalter: "You feel like you're going to score at least two runs. Once again, I feel the story was our inability to score runs against Ricky Bones."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Showalter was partially right. Though scoring only one run off Bones and three relievers obviously damaged the Yankees, allowing the Brewers to rush ahead by two runs in the first inning was just as damaging. Lacking in Offense Still, Showalter sidestepped three questions about Matt Nokes' inability to throw out runners and answered by discussing the lack of offense against Bones. But the first inning might have decided the game. Listach opened with a single to left, and it was apparent that the top base stealer in the league would challenge Nokes. With a 2-2 count on Hamilton, Listach sprinted to second. The Yankees called for a pitchout on that difficult count, but Nokes could not remove the ball from his glove and then his throw was high, so Listach had his 48th stolen base. After Hamilton walked to put men on first and second, Paul Molitor's sacrifice fly to right advanced Listach to third. Hamilton recorded the second crucial steal in the inning by grabbing second in an uncontested manner. Advertisement Nokes faked a throw to second and tossed the ball to third, but Listach returned to the base easily. Of the 118 attempted steals against Nokes this year, he has thrown out 22. The steals ignited the Brewers to two runs off Kamieniecki as Franklin Stubbs drove in the first with a grounder to second and Robin Yount poked a run-scoring single to center. "You can't shut them down," Kamieniecki said. "You just try to contain them." The Yankees trimmed the deficit to 2-1 in the third inning as Pat Kelly slugged his seventh homer, but that was all they mustered for the evening. They rapped into three double plays, did not have anyone besides Kelly reach third and added another frustrating night to Kamieniecki's frustrating season. "We just couldn't get anything going," Kamieniecki said. "I've had a lot of games like this." INSIDE PITCH The midnight trading deadline passed without the Yankees' making any trades, even though they have several players (MEL HALL, GREG CADARET, KEVIN MAAS ) who seem expendable because they are not likely to be part of their club next year. . . . BUCK SHOWALTER allowed MATT NOKES to bat against left-handed JESSE OROSCO in the eighth because he was 3 for 5 career against the former Met. Nokes popped out to the catcher. . . . DON MATTINGLY is 1 for his last 19. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 1, 1992, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; For Nokes, a Losing Night at the Races.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »