Advertisement By JOE LAPOINTE One of the big issues in hockey's labor hassle is the suggestion that team owners share revenue. The players want the owners to redistribute some gate receipts so that wealthy clubs from big cities can help their less-fortunate partners in smaller markets. The owners, represented by Commissioner Gary Bettman, have rejected the proposal, so far. Although they speak in generalities and provide few details, they insist they are losing money as a group, so why spread red ink? Operators of two large-market clubs, the Philadelphia Flyers and the Montreal Canadiens, spoke recently of one major reason for keeping their cash to themselves. Both Ed Snider of Philadelphia and Ronald Corey of Montreal are building big new arenas with some 20,000 seats, trimmed with luxury boxes like frosting on cake. They say they need to pay for the buildings. "I don't have any money to share," said Snider, adding that the Flyers lost "$3 million in cash" last season on revenues of $30 million. Advertisement "What do I have to share?" he said. A skeptic might wonder about the $15 million Snider sent to Quebec in the 1992 Eric Lindros deal or about the $40 million a bank is paying him to put its name on Snider's new building. Advertisement When the National Hockey League Players Association looked at his financial statement two years ago, Snider said the union accused him of "hiding the money in the arena and the hot dogs and everything else." He is offended at the thought. "We're spending over $200 million to build a new arena," he said. "What's going to pay for it? The hot dogs! Not the players." One reason for what Snider describes as his stretched financial state is that the Flyers haven't qualified for the playoffs for the last five seasons. Roughly two-thirds of N.H.L. teams make the tournament, where the biggest profits are made. A business student might suggest that smart management succeeds and makes money while less-enlightened management enjoys less success, that there are always winners and losers in business, and that people who are failing should sell their business at a profit instead of investing in a new infrastructure. Corey's Canadiens are considered among the shrewdest operations in hockey, and Corey has admitted "I made $8 million" in the last fiscal year. But he said the league already shares enough revenue from television and souvenir sales. "We are making an investment of $200 million," he said, referring to the new Forum being raised in downtown Montreal. "My first objective is to pay for the building."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Moreover, he said, "you have to understand that not everybody has the same fixed costs," and that it costs more money to do business in places like Montreal and New York. "We cannot see sharing gate revenue," he said. "Nobody's paying for my new building. We have no subsidies from anybody." Advertisement And what a fine new building it will be. It will have 135 luxury boxes, which sell for a minimum of $100,000 a year. All have been leased, and the leases will last 11 years. Back in Philadelphia, Snider said the ones who suffer most are the fans. "Every ticket in the lower level of the Spectrum is $50," Snider said. "I will not raise those tickets another dollar. We are pricing our great fans out of the game. My dream is when we open up that new building, to reduce ticket prices. Hopefully, the corporate revenues will give us enough revenue to do that for the average Joe out there." A student of elementary economics might suggest that most prices in a market economy are set by supply and demand. It might be suggested that if people keep paying $50 to see Snider's team not make the playoffs, the ticket prices will stay the same or go up, assuming that capitalism is working as it should. It will be interesting to see whether Snider makes good on his dream for the average Joe. "This is about the fans," Snider concluded. "And it is about the players' meeting the owners halfway and solving the problems of this game." Sounds fair enough. And it might help the fans and the players and the news media understand the problems of the owners if they would make public a little more financial data. Some sample questions: What was your gross ticket revenue last season? What did you take in for luxury boxes? For advertising on signboards? For concessions? For parking? What were your operating costs, including salaries paid to members of the front office and to owners? How much did you take in from television and radio? Are you including money from expansion teams as part of your financial statements? What is the line by line breakdown of your operating costs? What was your share of licensing revenue for N.H.L. products? What was your team worth when you bought it and what is it worth now? Given enough data, the average Joe can add up the numbers. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 5, 1994, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: ON PRO HOCKEY; Help Us, Oh Help Us, We've Got Buildings.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »