Advertisement By BARBARA LLOYD Rough seas had been slamming against the hull of Josh Hall's 60-foot sailboat for five straight days. An experienced ocean racer, Hall was familiar with the sounds and the feel of a turbulent sea, the slapping and banging of the waves, and the seismic motion that runs the length of the boat as it rides up the front side of a wave and falls off the back. But at dusk on Oct. 17, alone in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean on his 31st day at sea in the BOC round-the-world race, the sound Hall heard was different. In retrospect, it would make the pounding of the previous five days seem melodious by comparison. "There was an almighty crunch, and then a rendering sound," Hall said during a ship-to-shore telephone interview Saturday from the yacht that rescued him. "The boat staggered on its feet, so to speak, and I was forced up against the wheel. Obviously, something very serious had happened up forward." Thus began a wrenching night of struggle and fear for Hall during which he battled the torrents of water that rushed through a gaping hole on the starboard side of the hull. He was finally picked up eight hours later by a fellow race competitor in the type of high-seas rescue that gives ocean racing its aura of danger and adventure. Advertisement This was the second time that Hall, a 32-year-old British seafarer, was competing in the BOC Challenge, a 27,000-mile yacht race around the world for solo sailors. He had had a fairly uneventful trip aboard his boat, Gartmore Investment Managers, since leaving Charleston, S.C. Sept. 17 on the first stage of the BOC race, a 6,800-mile passage to Cape Town, South Africa. Although he was alone on his boat, he took satisfaction in knowing that there were 18 other lone sailors out there, too, all in a race to get to Cape Town first. Advertisement But there was no comfort for Hall once he heard the thud at the front of his boat. Regaining his balance, but stunned and frightened, Hall walked, ran and stumbled through the interior of his sailboat. What he found couldn't have been worse, a huge hole -- he estimates about two-by-three feet -- on the starboard side of the hull. The watertight bulkhead that is supposed to head off such on-rushes of sea water had split. And a six-foot crack in the hull loomed like a lightning bolt shot out of a thunderhead. He had no idea what the boat hit, but guessed that it might have been a submerged container from a passing ship. "I was just absolutely devastated," said Hall, a boyish-looking yachtsman known for his wit and easy-going friendliness. "Then panic set in, and my heart went to my stomach. I ran up and down the deck of the boat a couple of times saying, 'What do I do? What do I do?' " Hall was about 700 miles southeast of Recife, Brazil. The time was 7:46 P.M. Greenwich Mean Time, the standard under which mariners record their life at sea. And it was no time for all hell to break loose. First, he triggered his boat's emergency button, an alarm installed on all 19 of the BOC sailboats. It is part of a new communications system set up by The BOC Group, a multinational firm based in Britain that sponsors the solo competition. Its technology was developed for the race by Trimble Navigation, COMSAT Mobile Communications and I.B.M. In this sense, Hall benefited from technology that wasn't yet in place when Mike Plant, the ocean racer from Jamestown, R.I., was lost at sea in 1992. The emergency radio beacon on Plant's 60-foot sailboat, Coyote, sent out a brief distress signal, but the satellite transmission failed. Almost a month later, Coyote was found floating upside-down. The British Coast Guard received Hall's distress signal, and relayed the information to BOC race headquarters in Charleston. In the meantime, Hall had switched on his boat's main bilge pump, and then an extra emergency pump. The mechanisms were spitting out as much as 3,600 gallons of sea water an hour. Rick Viggiano, an electronics expert in Portsmouth, R.I., who was part of Hall's shoreside team, said that the boat was close to sinking. "He was fighting a losing battle," said Viggiano. "It's a tribute to his cool that he kept it up so long."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Alan Nebauer of Australia, skipper of the 50-foot BOC racing boat Newcastle, Australia, was the closest competitor to Hall, sailing along about 90 miles northwest of Hall. Alerted to Hall's plight during a scheduled short-wave radio transmission, Nebauer changed course. He headed toward Hall immediately, knowing as all BOC racers do, that in an emergency, they have to rely on each other. (In fairness, race officials give a time allowance to the rescue boat). Advertisement In the 1990-91 race, Hall was instrumental in passing on messages to aid in the rescue of John Martin, who was the Class I leader at the time. Hall was seventh in Class I when his boat was hit. As he struggled to survive aboard Gartmore, Hall concedes that his emotions ran wild. "At first I thought, my time is really up this time," he said. "I've got a lot of miles at sea now. Oh my goodness, I've used all my nine lives up now." During the seemingly endless hours of a life-and-death struggle, Hall's on-board telephone rang eight times. Somewhere in the flurry, he placed a call to his wife, Laura, in England. Filled as he was with remorse about putting her and their 2-year-old son, Sam, "in harm's way," Hall said he broke into tears on hearing her voice. "It took awhile to get my composure," he said. "She knew about the situation, and she said, 'Don't worry, you'll be all right. Help is on the way.' From that point on, I knew I would be all right. It was a turning point in my mind." Hall set about inflating his life raft, and lashing it to the side of his yacht, which was making slow headway west to rendezvous with Newcastle. Then he started putting items into the floating raft -- two bags of clothes, food (knowing that Nebauer certainly had not planned on a guest), and personal items, the most important of which were pictures of Laura and Sam. "I was getting increasingly worried," Hall said. "There were these horrendous groaning and creaking sounds. I knew that if the bulkhead broke completely, the boat would go down in 20 minutes." It was a sweet sight, Hall said, to see the lights of Newcastle on the horizon. At 3:30 A.M., Greenwich time, the next day, Hall abandoned Gartmore in the dark. He stopped the bilge pump, and opened the seacocks before he left. He wanted the hull, already awash with water, to sink so that it wouldn't be a hazard to others. Getting over to Newcastle was its own saga. Ten-foot seas pitched the yacht like a toy in a tub. And having loaded his life raft so fully, Hall nearly sank the inflatable when he stepped off Gartmore. Nebauer threw him a line, and dragged the raft to Newcastle's side. The two are settled into life at sea now. Isabelle Autissier of France won the first stage in the BOC race, arriving in Cape Town, South Africa, early Sunday. But Newcastle Australia has another 2,100 miles to go -- about 12 more days at sea. Advertisement Hall is trying to sort out his life right now. He sits as passenger on a boat he is not allowed under the rules to help sail. And he has a lot of time to think. "In some ways it's good I had to stay out here," Hall said. "I'm not affected so much anymore. But for a while, I was looking over every wave expecting something I didn't know about on the other side." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 25, 1994, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: Alone in a Sea of Trouble; BOC Yacht-Race Rescue Came While the Boat Was Sinking.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »