Advertisement By BARBARA LLOYD and  An Italian television commentator was explaining to Paul Cayard recently how the 32-year-old skipper had become a national sports hero in Italy, as big as any soccer star. Cayard, whose attention is mostly focused on his boat these days, seemed genuinely surprised. "As big as soccer?" he asked. He smiled, then gazed out at the water as if to digest the thought. In fact, Paul Cayard, an American born in San Francisco, is the focus of "Moromania" in Italy. The craze has developed over Il Moro di Venezia's attempt to win the America's Cup for Italy. Although Italy has chased after the cup twice before, this is the first time its yachting team has been the challenger in the finals. With the four-of-seven-race series tied at a victory apiece, Il Moro needs three more victories to defeat Bill Koch's potentially faster yacht, America  , and claim the America's Cup. The next race is scheduled for Tuesday afternoon. For Now, He's Italian Advertisement Italian teen-agers are sprouting mustaches like Cayard's, and fans are watching the cup races live on TV each night. They don't seem to care that Cayard comes from the very nation their team is opposing. The term "hired gun" is something out of a Western movie, not a sports event. Advertisement Cayard, a multilingual sailor and a graduate of San Francisco State with a degree in business management, is a protege of one of America's most capable and flamboyant yachting figures, the late Tom Blackaller. Cayard fits in well with Italy's image of a team on the brink of a great sporting coup. His dark curly hair and black mustache are only part of the sophisticated, swashbuckler image he projects -- part Hollywood, part la dolce vita. But beneath the personal flair is a yachtsman driven by a determination to win and the willingness to work for it. Where his crew is excitable, he is non-demonstrative. Where his crew caves in to an infrequent "casino bastiale," when everything goes wrong on the boat at once, Cayard stands serene at the helm.  'He Creates Pressure' His calculated moves against America   in the first two races have left the Koch team stunned. "He creates the pressure and directs it right on to his opponent," Robert Hopkins, Il Moro's navigator and team technical director, said today. "There are a lot of people who race without stepping up the pressure because they are unsure of themselves. Paul isn't like that. It's a nuts-and-bolts kind of thing. He attacks the other boat."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Cayard, who explains his affiliation with the Italian team as "the way of the world," was one of the founders of the Il Moro syndicate in 1988. He had worked and sailed with Raul Gardini, the syndicate chairman, since 1984, and the idea flowed from their collective maxi-yacht campaign. Cayard would be the first to admit that it hasn't all been smooth sailing. After being down by 3-1 in the challengers' finals against New Zealand, his team was given little hope of recovering. But Cayard pulled it together in an 11th-hour show of mental strength that devastated New Zealand both on the water and off. The Italians won four races in a row and the right to challenge. That peak seemed over as the America's Cup matches began Saturday. Il Moro lost the first race through a blatant error -- crossing the starting line too early, and then having to go back and re-round it. The match on Sunday made up for the misstep. The race was breathtaking for its drama and historic significance -- it ended with a three-second victory for Italy that marked the closest finish in margin in time in 141 years of cup racing. It was also a perfectly executed match by the Italians. He Stays Behind the Wheel Advertisement Koch, who has always credited Dennis Conner as being the best sailor in the world, conceded after the race that perhaps Cayard was the "second best." Most of the responsibility for winning the cup sits squarely on Cayard's shoulders. Unlike the Koch team, which switches helmsmen like shifts in the breeze, Cayard stays locked to the wheel of his long red boat during each 20-mile match. "I like to keep the continuity of the race in my hands," Cayard said. "It's part of the job of knowing when to stick your nose in and when not to." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 12, 1992, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: YACHT RACING; Cayard: New World Discovery By Italians.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »