Advertisement By CLAIRE SMITH THE 1994 baseball season is all but hooked up to a suicide machine. Any moment now, Bud Selig, baseball's acting commissioner, will put the game out of the protracted misery caused by a strike and the intransigence of both owners and players. When, not if, Selig acts, the focus will switch from New York and Milwaukee -- the power bases of the union and of Selig, who also owns the Brewers -- to Washington, the power base of the only government officials that could do something about this travesty. President Clinton and Robert Reich, the Secretary of Labor, have suggested conciliation to the baseball forces that seem to have little compunction about prematurely ending the season and also the 89-year-run of the World Series. Yet, such well-intentioned prodding accomplished little, other than creating extra sound bites for sports news broadcasts. Even with the game in need of a last-second reprieve, the President is not likely to involve himself. To do so would be to invite criticism that he is interfering with the labor negotiations of a private, albeit self-destructive, industry. It would also invite criticism that his priorities should be Cuba, Haiti and health care, not the wranglings of over-indulged millionaires. But what about Congress? Advertisement Baseball's focus will switch there in less than 10 days because Congress's own internecine battle, over the antitrust exemption it allows major league baseball, is about to flare again. Advertisement Representative Jack Brooks, Democrat of Texas and chairman of the House subcommittee on economics and commercial law, will hold hearings on the exemption Sept. 22. As of today, Selig does not yet know if he will be called to testify. But, he said, "I would suspicion so." We all would also suspicion that not only will Selig be called, but also Donald Fehr, Richard Ravitch and anyone else who has left fingerprints all over the 1994 season's murder scene. Brooks has made it very clear they had better answer the call. "They might be able to run away from their obligations to the fans of this country for a few months," he said yesterday. "But they can't run away from Congress for long, especially when it's professional baseball that enjoys the special dispensation accorded no other sport."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Should owners panic? Although Brooks has said he hasn't taken a formal position, his "general view is that exemptions are disfavored." He said yesterday that even though Congress won't serve as mediator and can't realistically save the season at this point -- "We are policy makers; policy makers with a long memory." Thus does Brooks hint that his view of the exemption and that of the majority of Congress might correlate this time. The strike, or "debacle," as Brooks calls it, has "moved the issue of baseball's antitrust exemption to the Congressional policy radar screen as never before." Because, as Brooks knows, the World Series is in more jeopardy now than it was at any time during two world wars, the Great Depression and a killer earthquake. This time, he said, baseball owners "may be underestimating Congress's ability to respond." So, Brooks will hold his hearings. Management officials will dutifully defend the exemption as the last barrier against runaway migration of franchises. Union officials will dutifully argue that they can't pursue grievances in courts as do other unions in industries not blessed with exemptions. Owners, having never lost such an argument in Washington, figure their point was made long, long ago. "I continue to be mystified by why it is such an issue," Selig said. "This union might be the most successful bargaining unit in labor history. It's hard to say the antitrust exemption has hurt their position." Advertisement Not surprisingly, Fehr, the union chief, takes the opposite view. "Two things correlate in baseball labor negotiations: the owners have an antitrust exemption and every time we bargain, we have a strike or a lockout," he said. "The two are not unrelated. And as long as the government allows that state of affairs to continue, one can expect that negotiations which lead to strikes or lockouts will continue." But Fehr and the union have yet to convince the proper people on that point. And in the Senate, the retiring Howard Metzenbaum, Democrat of Ohio and a leading opponent of the exemption, saw his last attempt to have a bill linking the immunity to the labor issue blocked yesterday. The House and the Senate are set to adjourn Oct. 7 and not return until January. So expect the exemption to remain sacrosanct, hovering on Brooks's radar screen for another day. Too bad. It proves that the World Series isn't as well-protected as the system that allows the kind of grievous harm caused by baseball's wars. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 14, 1994, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; '94 Season: May It Rest In Disarray.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »