Advertisement By PAT BORZIJULY 3, 2014
 MINNEAPOLIS —  The home run landed in the Yankees’ bullpen in left-center, so Zelous Wheeler had no trouble retrieving his first major league hit. On a day the Yankees learned of new swelling in C. C. Sabathia’s troublesome right knee and Masahiro Tanaka failed to post a quality start for the first time as a major leaguer, Wheeler, a 27-year-old utility infielder who had been playing his eighth season in the minors, contributed hits in two big innings. That helped him and the Yankees finish his major league debut with big smiles, and a 7-4 victory over the Minnesota Twins. The victory, in a swift 2 hours 36 minutes, ended the Yankees’ five-game losing streak and restored the club’s record to .500, at 42-42. “I’ve been waiting for this moment for a long time,” Wheeler said after Thursday’s game. “Hopefully I can take advantage of it.” Advertisement Called up from Class AAA Scranton/Wilkes-Barre to replace the slumping Yangervis Solarte, Wheeler cracked a solo home run in the fifth inning off the former Yankee Phil Hughes, shortly after Carlos Beltran’s three-run homer had put the Yankees ahead, 3-2. Advertisement Wheeler, who fouled out in his first at-bat, added a single in a three-run seventh, just ahead of Brendan Ryan’s run-scoring double. “It’s great to see,” Yankees Manager Joe Girardi said of Wheeler. “For his first hit to be a homer, and in our bullpen so we get the ball, is kind of special. It’s probably a lot better than he imagined his first hit would be.” The Yankees needed it as Tanaka faltered, his streak of 16 consecutive quality starts to begin his career ending against the light-hitting Twins. Tanaka finished tied with Montreal’s Steve Rogers, in 1973, for the longest such streak since earned runs became an official statistic in 1912.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Tanaka would have passed Rogers had Girardi removed him after six innings, with a 4-3 lead. But after the Yankees tacked on three runs in the top of the seventh, Girardi, noticing Tanaka’s modest pitch count, sent him out for one more inning. Trevor Plouffe doubled, and Eduardo Escobar singled with one out for the fourth run before Tanaka retired the side with his 85th and final pitch. The nine hits and four earned runs allowed by Tanaka were season highs, but it could have been worse. The Twins never scored more than one run in any inning. Base running blunders in the first and third innings cost them chances for additional runs. “I feel this outing was one of my worst ones this season as far as hitting the spots, making pitches,” Tanaka said through an interpreter. “The No. 1 thing is for the team to win, and the offense came through for us, got me a lot of run support tonight.” Yankees catcher Brian McCann said: “I think his pitchers were just up. His split was up. At the same time, you look up in the seventh inning, and he’s got 75 pitches, so it’s hard to say that it was tough. I thought his sinker was great tonight. He got a lot of early-pitch outs. Just another quality outing for him.” Hughes, who pitched eight strong innings in a 7-2 Twins win over the Yankees in the Bronx on June 1, appeared equally sharp early. He allowed one hit in the first four innings while facing the minimum 12 batters. Then, in the fifth, with the Twins leading by 2-0, Mark Teixeira — back in the lineup after having fluid drained from his sore left knee on Wednesday — singled, as did McCann. Beltran, batting left-handed, followed with a long home run over the high wall in right. That offered significant relief for the Yankees, who went 2-for-25 with runners in scoring position in their just-concluded three-game series against Tampa Bay. A version of this article appears in print on July 4, 2014, on Page B13 of the New York edition with the headline: Home Runs Doom Hughes, but This Time the Yankees Are Smiling.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »