Advertisement By MURRAY CHASS Whether or not this Friday is a firm deadline for a season-saving labor agreement could be immaterial if the two sides don't meet in the near future. The striking players and owners have not met since Aug. 25 and have no bargaining sessions scheduled. Asked yesterday whether Friday could come and go without a meeting, Bud Selig, the acting commissioner, who last Friday set the date as more or less a deadline, said: "I don't know. One would hope and think not, but we'll see how each day plays out." The strike that today reaches its 26th day has so stalemated the two sides that not even unofficial efforts have spurred movement. "They don't seem to be producing much," a management person said. "It has produced very little," said a person on the players' side. Advertisement They referred to talks that some club officials have had with union officials in an effort to find a way toward a compromise on the owners' desire to have a cap on team payrolls and the players' steadfast rejection of it. Advertisement Jerry McMorris, controlling owner of the Colorado Rockies, John Harrington, chief executive officer of the Boston Red Sox and Stan Kasten, president of the Atlanta Braves, participated in a conference call with union officials yesterday. So did Richard Ravitch, the club's chief negotiator; as well as Chuck O'Connor and other lawyers from management's Player Relations Committee. Union attorneys Gene Orza, Lauren Rich and Steve Fehr did as well. Neither Don Fehr, the head of the players association, nor Selig participated. Orza said he regarded the telephone session as largely informational. "It was just an effort to make sure everyone was on the same page with respect to the club's proposal," Orza said last night. He said he is hopeful there will be new negotiating sessions, but added: "The conference call today should not be given a significance to suggest that it was the reason for that. If there is an eyeball-to-eyeball meeting in the next few days, it will not be because of this conference call. "  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Selig had a meeting of another kind yesterday -- with Robert Reich, the United States Secretary of Labor in Milwaukee. "I saw him this morning," Selig said, but he declined to say what they discussed. A person familiar with the meeting said Selig presented the owners' views to Reich but otherwise it did not have much substance. President Clinton brought the issue up while he was in Maine with George Mitchell, the Senate majority leader, who has been considered the leading candidate to fill the two-year-old vacancy in the commissioner's office. "If George had been commissioner of baseball," Clinton said, laughing, "they'd be back playing again now." The President, a baseball fan, mentioned the strike during an address to iron workers at a shipyard in Bath. "On this Labor Day," Clinton said, "there is still time for them to go back to work and finish the best baseball season in 50 years, and I hope they will." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 6, 1994, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Game's Ultimate Strikeout Is Hanging in the Balance.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »