Advertisement By JACK CURRY and  The Oakland Athletics were facing elimination from the post-season today, facing the conclusion of a hectic six-month ride that saw them overcome odds and injuries to position themselves for one more chance at a World Series. They did not want the ride to end today. Neither did Dave Stewart. With his steely eyes glaring at every batter and his nasty pitches fooling them inning after inning, Stewart lived up to a guarantee he made on Sunday by pitching the A's to a 6-2 victory over David Cone and the Blue Jays in Game 5 of the American League Championship Series at Oakland Coliseum. That sent the series back to Toronto for Game 6 on Wednesday afternoon, with Mike Moore of Oakland opposing Juan Guzman. If the Jays win it, they will reach the World Series for the first time. If Oakland wins, Game 7 will decide the pennant on Thursday night. Necessity Dictated Before the A's lost Game 4 in 11 innings on Sunday, Stewart guaranteed that the A's would win Monday if they lost Sunday. Which meant that after the Jays rebounded from a five-run deficit for a 7-6 victory, the ball was squarely in Stewart's court. Or at least in his hand. Advertisement "For as much propaganda as I've been talking, for me to have lost would have made me look bad," Stewart said after his complete-game seven-hitter today. "I told my teammates the sun was going to shine today. But if it didn't, then I was going to shine." Advertisement The A's believed Stewart. They talked afterward about knowing they could probably win by getting a few runs off Cone, since they expected Stewart to keep the Blue Jays quiet. As his 6-0 record in A.L.C.S. play illustrates, Stewart has produced for the A's before, so they had no reason to doubt the strong words from their 35-year-old right-hander with the icy glare. "I knew we were going to win because Stew told us yesterday," said Mark McGwire. "He made us well aware that he told everyone he was going to win the game. It's nice coming to the ball park knowing Stew is there." Stewart, who has pitched for four teams in a 12-year career, was not alone in performing under pressure as one old star, one new star and one player who can hardly be called a star contributed mightily to the victory. Rickey Henderson, who turns 34 on Christmas Day, had two hits and scored two runs. Henderson conceded he had been "embarrassed" by the way Cone handled him when he went hitless in four times at bat in Game 2. The old star redeemed himself. Ruben Sierra, the player who replaced Jose Canseco in right field after being part of the four-player deal that sent Canseco from Oakland to Texas in late August, is the new star. He rapped a two-run homer and a run-scoring single off Cone and was serenaded by the A's fans.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The nonstar is Jerry Browne, the all-purpose player, who had just one time at bat in the first three games of the series, but replaced a fatigued Carney Lansford at third base today and delivered four hits, scored twice and drove in two runs. Seven-Year Omen Those three combined for all eight Oakland hits, helping the A's trim the Blue Jays' series lead to 3-2 and stir some reminders of 1985, when Toronto squandered a 3-1 playoff lead over Kansas City and allowed the Royals to enter, and win, the World Series. "We wanted to show them we were still here to play ball," said Terry Steinbach, the Oakland catcher. Stewart was dressed in shorts when he arrived at the stadium this morning, but he was already wearing his legendary game face. He breezed past the fans as they hollered for him to keep their beloved club from being eliminated. They had read the morning newspapers and knew about the guarantee. Advertisement The guarantee soon looked golden. Sierra slashed the two-run homer in the first, Browne had a run-scoring single in the third and Kelly Gruber's error at third base led to three runs in the fifth. Cone was unable to duplicate his stellar eight-inning effort of Game 2 as the A's pounded him for six hits and six runs (three earned) before he left in the fifth. 'Make Them Play Us' While Cone took a beating, the Jays mustered little against Stewart as he mixed in forkballs, fastballs and changeups to limit them to their lowest run total of the series. Dave Winfield, who said it was inconceivable to think the Jays could have won three straight games in Oakland, lauded Stewart. "He saved them," said Winfield, who homered in the Toronto fourth. "He went into his bag of tricks and pulled out something good." The A's hope the bag remains open and the magic continues in the Skydome. But as they prepared for their flight to Toronto, the A's wanted to spend a few hours savoring Stewart's victory, savoring a day on which he refused to let their season die. "All I was thinking when I came to the park today was let's make sure we make them play us Wednesday," Stewart said. "We've played too hard for it to end today." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 13, 1992, on Page B00009 of the National edition with the headline: THE PLAYOFFS; Stewart Sends Blue Jays a Message: Not So Fast.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »