Advertisement By CLIFTON BROWN Even a league that has Reggie Miller to shoot jumpers, Shaquille O'Neal to deliver dunks and Kenny Anderson to make dazzling passes has worried about offense. On many nights in the National Basketball Association, particularly during the playoffs, end-to-end action has given way to players grappling in the low post like Sumo wrestlers or struggling to get away from defenders allowed to hold them. Scoring in the N.B.A. has declined in 9 of the last 10 seasons, and physical contact has increased. For the league's hierarchy, it has been a situation getting out of hand, hurting the game and its appeal. Now comes the intended remedy. When the new season begins Friday night, there will be significant rule changes, and new rule interpretations, that should make offensive-minded players salivate and give headaches to coaches trying to draw up defensive game plans. A league that deftly sidestepped a labor stalemate will now look to loosen the flow of the game. And it will try to do so with steps that include the following: *Hand-checking, a defensive tactic that referees have given players leeway to use for years, will be outlawed in the backcourt and above the foul line. *There will be stricter guidelines regarding illegal defenses, with defenders in the lane no longer allowed 2.9 seconds before they must double-team the ball. Advertisement *A defensive player in the low post will no longer be allowed to put two hands on an offensive player. Advertisement *The 3-point line is now 22 feet from the basket, instead of 23 feet 9 inches at its farthest point. The league's policy-makers -- right up to Commissioner David Stern -- are convinced the changes will eventually lead to more wide-open action, and more scoring. The theory is that players will have an improved atmosphere in which to showcase their skills, instead of a game in which players find their every move restricted. "We focused on the overall good of the game, not marketing, not perception, not any individual teams," said Rod Thorn, the league's vice president of operations, who had the off-season job of overseeing the rule changes. "About 98 percent of the people in the league felt we had to do something to clean up the contact in the game. The other 2 percent probably felt that way, too, but they won't say it now because it's not in their best interests. "Did we do some things to encourage more offense? You're doggone right we did, just like some of the other sports have done. We were going to have 27 teams holding the ball eventually, 27 teams grabbing and holding. Then you've got 72-68 games, games where nobody could get free. That's where we were headed." Not everyone is pleased. Players have struggled most with the enforcement of hand-checking, because they were allowed to do it for so long. The preseason has produced more fouls, more stoppages of play, more complaints and longer games -- a trend that may carry into the regular season. Players, coaches, referees and fans are still adjusting.  In the meantime, nobody wants to pay $50 for a courtside seat just to watch a barrage of free throws. In a preseason game this month, the Knicks and the Utah Jazz combined for 84 personal fouls (almost double the league average) and 112 free throws. Impatient fans groaned and yelled to the referees, "Let them play." Afterward, Anthony Mason of the Knicks shook his head in disgust and asked: "They're trying to get rid of ugly basketball? What was that? That was the true definition of ugly basketball." However, fewer fouls have been called as the preseason has progressed. And Thorn insisted this was not a short-term experiment. If players want to avoid foul trouble, Thorn said, the solution is simple: Follow the rules. Advertisement "Do I think they'll be some games where an inordinate number of fouls will be called?" Thorn said. "Sure. But I'm not that concerned about the preseason because there are always more fouls called during the preseason than in the regular season. And I know that players want to play. Hand-checking has been in the rule book for years, it just hasn't been called, because we haven't been instructing referees to call it. But we had gradually gone back to where we were 16 or 17 years ago, with guys riding people up the floor. So they'll adjust. If they see that what they're doing is going to send them to the bench in foul trouble, they'll stop doing it." League executives strongly denied any implication that the changes were mandated with any particular teams or individuals in mind. Thorn contends these proposals had been discussed for several years, before they were finally brought before the N.B.A. Board of Governors, who enacted the rule changes earlier this month. But several events last season might have persuaded some people to take action. The 1994 championship series between the Knicks and the Houston Rockets drew the lowest television ratings for the N.B.A. finals since 1990. Neither team reached 100 points in the seven-game series, and many fans and journalists described the series as dull and poorly played offensively. Earlier, the playoffs were marred by two serious bench-clearing brawls, one involving the Knicks and Chicago Bulls, the other the Atlanta Hawks and the Miami Heat. The mayhem led to other rules changes -- including stiffer fines for fighting and leaving the bench during altercations and a crackdown on taunting. Those are changes that almost everyone endorses. But arguments can be made against the rule revisions dealing with defense. The Knicks and Rockets reached the finals by playing tough, hard-nosed, physical defense, the kind that wins championships but that doesn't win friends. New York is generally regarded as the league's most physical team, and the Knicks look at some of the revised hand-checking interpretations and rule changes as evidence that their style is not appreciated, or welcomed. "I don't think there's any doubt that the New York Knicks have, in a way, been singled out because of our defense and the style of defense that we play," said Knicks Coach Pat Riley. "We have to deal with it. We have to adapt to it. We're not going to apologize for it. We're not going to change. We're going to try to raise our defense to another level and take the challenge to continue to show people that defense is still a big part of this game, no matter what interpretations are coming down. "I think some of this has gone overboard. I agree wholeheartedly with ending the taunting and the gesturing. I agree with the flagrant fouls. I agree with fining people who leave the bench and escalate things.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "The hand-checking thing? O.K., I agree with that too, if everybody has to adapt, and not just the Knicks. Then I'm all for it, and we will adapt. "But people who criticized the finals aren't watching the game if they're saying those things I've heard. They're not enjoying watching the game of basketball played at its very best. Just because there wasn't this high-flying, run-and-gun finals doesn't mean there wasn't great basketball being played. Those people are missing the point. Defense is a priority now. If you take a look at Houston and New York last year, heck, a lot of people really enjoyed that kind of fierce competition. They were close games throughout, nobody blowing anybody out." Advertisement Don't expect the Knicks' opponents to work up much sympathy for Riley and his players because the rules have been changed. "The Knicks aren't a great defensive team because Mason and Charles Oakley knock somebody down every once in a while," said Donnie Walsh, general manager of the Indiana Pacers. "They're a great defensive team because they have great defensive players." And many people still have vivid memories of Riley coaching the Los Angeles Lakers, who played an up-tempo style because it suited their personnel and because it was successful. A large part of coaching and playing is the ability to adjust. Most people believe that because everyone must adjust, the playing field is still level for everyone. "Obviously, we're all going through the adjustments, and it's frustrating," said M. L. Carr, general manager of the Boston Celtics. "You're asking some guys who have made a career out of bumping, using their hands, and playing a physical style, to change their game. I guess for soft players who never played much defense, it doesn't matter. For other guys, it's tough. But eventually, I think it's going to be good for the game, and this is coming from a guy who had a physical game. "To be honest, I don't think the game had gotten any more physical than it was in the 70's, when we had guys like Dave Cowens and Wes Unseld out there. I remember when I played in Detroit -- one time we had four fights in six nights. And they were legit fights. But now the N.B.A.'s coming into your home every night, and any time there's a fight, you see it over and over again. So we have to deal with that. "As far as this hurting one team more than another, I don't see that. The Knicks? Pat Riley is a brilliant coach, and he'll make whatever adjustments are necessary." Asked if he believed there was too much contact being allowed in the N.B.A. game, Don Nelson, coach and general manager of the Golden State Warriors, said: "I don't think there was anyone who didn't feel that way, at least on the committees that I was part of. I think once people understand how it's going to be, you'll see the number of fouls go back closer to the way they were. And the great defensive teams will continue to be that way, because they have players who can move their feet and play position. Why should they be allowed to hold?" Describing the process that led to the Board of Governors vote (each team has one vote on the board), Thorn said he discussed the changes in May with a four-man steering committee consisting of Jerry West, the Los Angeles Lakers general manager; Wayne Embry, general manager of the Cleveland Cavaliers; Billy Cunningham, part owner of the Miami Heat, and Nelson. Advertisement After that, Thorn met with the N.B.A. Coaches Association during the world championships in Toronto in August. That meeting was attended by three former N.B.A. coaches, Chuck Daly, Matt Guokas and Jack Ramsay, and four current coaches, Don Chaney of the Detroit Pistons, George Karl of the Seattle Supersonics, Del Harris of the Lakers and Nelson. "I didn't care who came to that meeting," Thorn said. "It's not like it was a secret meeting. The coaches association decided which representatives to send. The reason why we have some former coaches participate is that they don't have an ax to grind, coaching a particular team. But I can't emphasize enough that the coaches participated in this decision." Next came a September meeting with the N.B.A. Competition Committee, which also includes one representative from each of the league's 27 teams, then the October meeting with the Board of Governors. At both meetings, Thorn showed the same instructional videotape that was shown to every team and coaching staff before the preseason. The videotape, which Thorn willingly played in his office upon request, gave detailed illustrations of the new rules and interpretations. The tape featured game action from previous seasons, showing various players using hand-checks, setting illegal screens, playing illegal defense or committing various other infractions. More than 50 players, and almost every team in the league, were used as examples at least once on the tape. When the meeting with the competition committee adjourned, Thorn said that everyone was warned that the league meant business. And a month later, the Board of Governors provided the two-thirds vote to make the changes official. "This is exactly what we showed everybody that we were going to call," Thorn said, clicking off the videotape in his office during a recent interview. "Some people claim they didn't know this was happening. Anybody who says they didn't know about this, well, that's not true -- unless they just didn't want to know anything about it. And contrary to what you've heard, we didn't single out anybody." So get ready for a new season, with new rules. The referees prepared for the changes during their annual week-long training camp in September at Byrne Meadowlands Arena. And every team was briefed. "I think we have some people who expect things to go back to how they were once the regular season begins," Thorn said. "But actually, I think we may have waited a year too long. We're not going back. Other sports have made rule changes at times they felt it was necessary. We felt this was the right thing to do for our game." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 30, 1994, on Page 8008001 of the National edition with the headline: Can't You Hear the Whistles Blowin'?; The N.B.A. Cracks Down in Bid to Get the Offense Cranked Up.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »