Advertisement By FRANK LITSKY and  The big news from the Tour Du Pont bicycle race today should have been Phil Anderson's third stage victory in five days or Greg LeMond's strong finish to keep the overall lead. Instead, it was Michel Zanoli's punch to the face of Davis Phinney as the cyclists approached the finish at 40 miles an hour, an infraction that resulted in Zanoli's ejection from the tour and that might have kept Phinney from winning the stage. Zanoli, a 24-year-old Dutchman, rides for the American team Motorola. At 6 feet 6 inches, he is the tallest rider in international cycling. The 32-year-old Phinney, from Boulder, Colo., rides for the American team Coors Light. At 5 feet 9 inches, he gives away nearly a foot to Zanoli. One of Zanoli's teammates is Anderson, a 34-year-old Australian who started the day 20 seconds behind LeMond in the overall standing. Zanoli's job was to help Anderson win the final sprint and collect the winner's 10-second bonus. Zanoli performed his task to the extreme. Looking for Slingshot Effect With 400 meters to go, Anderson was leading and Phinney was right on Anderson's rear wheel. By staying there, Phinney was drafting in Anderson's airstream and facing less wind resistance. The vacuum would have let Phinney slingshot past Anderson. Advertisement Zanoli tried to stay on Anderson's wheel to keep away opposing riders. According to Phinney and Thorston Wilhelm, a German amateur rider who was right behind Phinney, Zanoli bumped Phinney twice. When Phinney refused to move, Zanoli clenched a fist and with a backhand motion hit him in the face. Advertisement Phinney, whose nose was bleeding from the blow, was knocked off Anderson's wheel but maintained his balance. Phinney kept going and slipped inside Anderson on the final corner, 200 meters from the finish. Anderson caught him 10 meters from the end and beat him by 2 feet. Wilhelm finished third and LeMond 23d in the tightly bunched pack, and all received the same time of 4 hours 23 minutes 29 seconds for the 120.5-mile race from Wintergreen. Fined 1,000 Swiss Francs Immediately after the race, Len Pettyjohn, the Coors Light team director, protested to the three race supervisors appointed by the Federation Internationale du Cyclisme Professionel, the sport's world governing body.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. An hour later, after hearing witnesses, the supervisors disqualified Zanoli, fined him 1,000 Swiss francs ($662.25) and stripped him of his prize money from this tour (less than $1,000). Two days ago, when a motorcycle carrying a CBS television cameraman bumped into another of Zanoli's teammates, Andy Bishop, and knocked him down, Zanoli reacted strongly. He stopped, threw down his bike, ran to the motorcycle driver and punched him. Paul Sherwen, Motorola's cycling publicity director and a former Tour de France rider, said Motorola did not disagree with today's ruling. "Michel is excitable," he said. "We have to try to calm him down a bit." 'He's a Bully' Phinney was angry. "I have absolutely no respect for Mike Zanoli," he said. "He's a bully, a big guy. He wants to get his way. I'm 5-9 and he's 6-6, but I'm not going to give way. What if I'm knocked off my bike, half the field goes down and Greg LeMond goes down, too?" LeMond said he had trouble with Zanoli, too. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 16, 1992, on Page 1001036 of the National edition with the headline: CYCLING; A Punch Overshadows the Pedaling.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »