Advertisement By JACK CAVANAUGH What had developed into a renaissance season for Columbia ended in a nightmare yesterday when the Lions squandered a 24-point lead in the second half as Brown erupted for eight unanswered touchdowns en route to a 59-27 victory. Ahead by 27-3 early in the second half, Columbia appeared on the way to its sixth victory against three defeats and one tie in the season finale for both teams. That would have given the Lions their most victories since the 1971 team, the last Columbia squad to record a winning record, went 6-3. But then this vastly improved Columbia team, which had surprised its most ardent supporters -- not to mention the entire Ivy League -- reverted to the inept form that had characterized Lion teams over most of the last two decades. Mainly as a result of a spate of Columbia turnovers, Brown scored four touchdowns within a span of 3 minutes and 26 seconds in the third quarter and added four more in the final period before a crowd of 7,375 at Wien Stadium. Four of those touchdowns were scored by the junior tailback Paul Fichiera, the last one on a 20-yard run. "It was an awful bad day," Ray Tellier, the Columbia coach, said. "Halfway through the third quarter, we were fine. Then the ball bounced their way. They made some plays that you have to tip your hats to them for." Advertisement In all, Brown scored 56 unanswered points in 21 minutes 47 seconds. And the total of 59 points tied an Ivy League record set by Princeton -- against Brown, no less -- in 1991. It also was the most points yielded by Columbia since a 62-20 thrashing by Bucknell in 1987, the last of four consecutive seasons in which the Lions went winless on their way to a then Division I-AA record of 44 straight defeats. Advertisement The come-from-behind victory by a Brown team that had been thoroughly dominated by Columbia in the first half gave the Bruins a 7-3 record and their first winning season since 1987. It enabled the Bruins to finish in a second-place tie in the Ivy League behind Pennsylvania. Brown's turnabout was almost as remarkable as that of Columbia, which finished at 5-4-1 after going 2-8 last season. Under Mickey Kwiatkowski, the Bruins went 0-10 and 4-6 over the last two seasons, resulting in Kwiatkowski's dismissal. The new coach, Mark Whipple, a former quarterback at Brown who had enjoyed huge success as the coach at the University of New Haven, inherited a team consisting mainly of players recruited by Kwiatkowski. No Brown team had amassed this many points since 1943, when the Bears crushed the Camp Kilmer (N.J.) Army team, 62-3.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. When the first half ended, however, it was Columbia which seemed about to stage a rout, taking a 24-3 lead. The Lions scored on four of six possessions, and they didn't commit a single turnover. Columbia, which was to turn the ball over seven times in the second half -- six of which led to touchdowns -- scored its first touchdown after Lions cornerback Gary Edmonds intercepted a pass by Brown's sophomore quarterback Jason McCullough in the end zone. The ensuing 80-yard drive ended when Marcellus Wiley bulled over from the 4-yard line midway through the first period. By intermission, Columbia had scored three more times -- on a 19-yard run by senior flanker Justin Fossbender, an 8-yard pass from quarterback Jamie Schwalbe to tight end Brian Bassett and a 27-yard field goal by Joe Aldrich. Another field goal by Aldrich with 8:25 remaining in the third quarter increased the Columbia lead to 27-3. Whipple, the Brown coach, said he didn't change his strategy in the second half. "We didn't play very badly in the first half," he said. "At halftime I said to them that midway through the season they could have given up, but not now. In the second half we played harder and made more plays." Indeed. Brown scored four touchdowns to go ahead, 31-27, with 3:47 left in the period. Only one of those scores, the first, came on a drive, with Fichiera (21 carries for 118 yards) scoring his first touchdown to cap a 55-yard march. Then, for Columbia, disaster struck. Two plays after that score, a deflected pass by Schwalbe was intercepted by safety Rocky Parsons and returned 34 yards for touchdown. Brown recovered a Columbia fumble on the ensuing kickoff, and two plays later McCullough (13 of 24 passes for 197 yards) connected with flanker Charlie Buckley on a 25-yard touchdown pass to reduce Columbia's lead to 3 points. Advertisement Less than two minutes later, Brown went ahead for good when Fichiera scored his second touchdown following the first of four pass interceptions that would produce Bruin touchdowns. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 20, 1994, on Page 8008010 of the National edition with the headline: COLLEGE FOOTBALL; New Columbia Looks an Awful Lot Like Old Columbia.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »