Advertisement By GEORGE VECSEY THE best way to remember Fred Lebow is smack in the middle of his own race. I could tell you about the fraternal warmth I always felt whenever Fred Lebow would sidle up to me at somebody else's party, probably wearing a jogging suit and running shoes, witty and perceptive in his lush Transylvanian accent, even when he wasn't pushing his own event or explaining away some problem, which was always, you understand, extremely minor. Fred died yesterday, exactly four weeks before his event, the New York City Marathon, which has become the most delightful sporting day in New York, every year. Charming hustler that he was, he brought in big-time appearance and prize money at the front end of the marathon, but the reason so many of us enjoyed him was that he turned this giant city into a playland one Sunday every November. He arranged for thousands and thousands of people, fat and skinny, young and old, from dozens and dozens of countries, to romp through the five boroughs, a celebration of human will. Advertisement I could give a private or historical view of a man I liked very much. But better, I should tell you about Fred and the New York City Marathon. Advertisement There were two marathons I will remember more than all the others. One in 1981, when Fred was still totally Fred, the master of nuance and detail, controlling that marathon from an open Jeep. The other was in 1992, when Fred was operating on sheer nerve after coming through surgery for brain cancer, when he controlled that marathon on his own two feet, in the company of his dear friend Grete Waitz. The marathon was already a big deal by 1981, the time I rode in the pace car with Fred. He was hardly inhibited by my presence. At the staging area in Staten Island, he pushed and pulled and cajoled and threatened everybody, from hard-bitten city cops to timid volunteers. "Allan, I have just heard a rumor," he gritted into a walkie-talkie, at Allan Steinfeld, the longtime backbone of the New York Road Runners who yesterday became the 31,000-member club's new leader. "The rumor says the race will start at 10:45 instead of 10:38. It will start at 10:38." A man with a movie camera asked him for "a little time" and as he moved on he snapped, "I am Fred Lebow and I do not have any time." As the cannon erupted to start the race, Lebow spotted a few runners who had infiltrated the elite front ranks. "You hot-doggers, get back, you won't last to the other side of the bridge," Fred roared through a bullhorn. "I know who you are, you hot-doggers." I still hear that word, "hot-doggers," as the ultimate insult for interlopers. He was as tough on the volunteers as the hot-doggers. As the parade entered Bay Ridge, somebody in the crowd shouted "Nice, race, Fred," but Lebow was more concerned with cautioning: "Move those water tables back. They're too close to the runners." When the driver of the time-clock car refused to speed up, gesturing that the runners had to see the split times, Lebow shouted into the bullhorn, "Leave the course!" Advertisement Of all the people Fred fired that day, none left, and none displayed hard feelings afterward. That was just Fred.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Coming into the strongly Hasidic neighborhood in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn, Lebow called out in Yiddish, "Lama heren," which he translated as, "Let me hear it," but few of the black-frocked Hasids applauded. It took me years to even sense Fred's tangled feelings about his religion. His family had barely escaped Europe ahead of the Holocaust; most of the others kept the name Lebowitz and the Orthodox rituals, but Lebow had become worldly, a bachelor who dated many "vimmen," a runner who trained on the Sabbath, a man who did business in the polyglot world. Yet I came to think that Fred was spooked by the impassive stares of the Hasids, almost as if they were judging him. (Somebody told me that at the end, Fred was speaking only Yiddish and Hungarian to one of his sisters; it reminds me that he always knew who he was and where he came from.) The last thing I remember about that 1981 marathon was the way he leaped off his Jeep to embrace Alberto Salazar and murmur "thank you" for the world record, and how he waited to embrace and thank Allison Roe a few minutes later. He was a good leader. In my column that day, I compared him with Patton racing through the French countryside to liberate Paris. In 1992, when he was recovering from brain cancer, a ghastly assassin, here was the indomitable Fred, coming back from an operation, not only running the marathon but running the marathon. Both ways. Waitz volunteered to run with him, willing her superb runner's body to run slowly while Fred willed his stricken body to run at all. I could see the changes in Fred. He was thinner, older, more gaunt, more preoccupied. He used to have an extra awareness of other people's personalities, even if just to flatter or criticize them for his own purposes. But now he was more introverted. He had become a case, his own life a desperate struggle, and he didn't have as much attention for other people. I mourned that part of him, but good grief, look how far he had come. I sat with them on a sunny morning in October as they planned their race in November. I described them as Hepburn and Tracy preparing for one more movie together. "In my wildest dream, I would like to finish half the race before the winner crosses the finish line," Lebow told her. "It's better to be conservative," Waitz said softly. "I always say, 'Take the first 18 miles as transportation. Without wasting too much energy.' Then you can run. If we can get to First Avenue . . . ." He got to First Avenue. He got to where he and Waitz could hear the announcements: "Fred is on the 21st mile. Fred is approaching the park." Later Waitz would say, "When we came into the park, I got goose bumps." Advertisement We all got goose bumps when the two of them crossed the line together in 5 hours 32 minutes 34 seconds, and they fell into a clinch, better than Hepburn and Tracy, both of them crying, surrounded by friends and family. That day I wrote: "There have been many beautiful moments in the stadiums and arenas of New York, but this moment, on a roadway in Central Park, between a Romanian emigre and a Norwegian champion, could stand for all of them." Later, of course, Fred wanted to know who had messed up at the starting line. The New York City Marathon will go on. The city should name something after him, maybe one street in each of the five boroughs he united one Sunday every November. But definitely the final stretch in Central Park should be named Fred Lebow Boulevard. I like the word "boulevard." It has such a grandiose ring to it, and Fred Lebow was a grandiose man who just happened to pull off all his dreams. Fate handed him a short race. With his gall, with his love of life, Fred Lebow turned it into a marathon. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 10, 1994, on Page C00001 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; Lebow Won His Personal Marathon.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »