Advertisement By JACK CURRY Three hours before yesterday's kickoff between Columbia and Fordham, there was scant evidence that a football game would be played. There were no pep rallies, no tailgate parties and no traffic troubles near Fordham's Rose Hill Campus in the Bronx. This is Division I-AA so the place was serene and the pace was leisurely. The manicured grass that stretches far beyond the 100 yards of the football field and the shockingly sunny skies created a perfect autumn setting for two schools that should be fiercer rivals. It was a picture Norman Rockwell could have painted. But, sometimes, the football picture for small, academically stringent colleges like Fordham and Columbia seems to be etched in crayon. Because the players are truly student-athletes who eloquently state that they have chosen their schools for an education, their athletic exploits are often ignored and criticized. Especially in New York. When was the last time you overheard someone discussing Division I-AA on the D train? Or the A train? Too bad there is no I-AA train. Still, the anonymity does not dampen the endless enthusiasm. "We have very bright kids who learn quickly," said Ray Tellier, the fast-talking, fast-moving Columbia coach. "I'm not bailing kids out of jail. You're talking about guys who are going to be leaders in their professions. And they like to play football." Advertisement "To me, it provides everything that is right with college football," said Nick Quartaro, the polite, personable Fordham coach. "They're playing for the love of the game." Advertisement That desire was exhibited when Columbia of the Ivy League controlled Fordham of the Patriot League, 24-13, in a tussle between two New York schools that do not provide athletic scholarships. The 5,266 fans at Jack Coffey Field watched Jamie Schwalbe's precise spirals to Brian Bassett and Mike Cavanaugh's versatility help nudge the Lions (2-1-1) above the .500 mark this deep into the season for the first time since 1978, while also elevating hopes that they might compile their first winning season in 23 years. "Our senior class wants to say that we were the group that turned it around and got it going in the right direction," said Schwalbe, the passing fancy in Columbia's two-quarterback system, who was instrumental in keeping the Rams (0-6) without a victory with 21 completions and 257 yards through the air. "We certainly understand what they're going through," said Tellier of the Rams. "Who better to understand it than us?" Poor Columbia. The Lions cannot avoid being dubbed chronic losers because their predecessors once lost 44 straight contests, an embarrassing record that began in 1983 and was not snapped until Oct. 8, 1988, in a 16-13 conquest of Princeton. Even though Columbia is one missed extra point against Lehigh and one touchdown and conversion against Harvard from being 4-0, the players realize their gradual improvement is still not major news. Schwalbe depicted the mood on campus toward yesterday's game by saying, "This weekend has been talked about a lot so people are saying, 'O.K., they're all drummed up. Here comes the mistake.' " But the Lions, who were the favorite, did not wilt. In the seventh meeting between the schools in 104 years, the Lions won for the sixth time. Four of the games have occurred since 1991, with Columbia grabbing the last three. Quartaro conducted intense practices last week because he knew the Lions would be voracious in chasing their second straight victory, but the change did not help produce a triumph. Losing to the Lions, who are unfairly designated as the dregs of college football mostly due to the streak, floated in Quartaro's mind all week. He was an assistant coach at nationally ranked Kansas State last year. Now his team was an underdog to Columbia. "The public perception about Columbia is wrong," said Quartaro two days before the contest. "A loss to them could be perceived in a poor way by the outsiders who don't follow it close enough. I'm sure if things don't go well on Saturday, there will be friends of mine in the profession who might say, 'Nick, what did you get yourself into?' "  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Division I-AA, what else? Each program has its demons. While Columbia must distance itself from a recent history that was so dubious it caused David Letterman to take a sarcastic jab at the squad on his show Friday, Fordham is trying to validate the switch it made from Division III to I-AA in 1989 and the process has been as unpleasant as root-canal surgery. Advertisement The Rams have lost eight straight games, including a 13-6 setback to Cornell two weeks ago, when John Pohlman fumbled on the 1-yard line with 58 seconds left, and are 7-48 since they moved up. Frustrated alumni wonder whether Fordham will ever recreate a sliver of past football glories and whether the school should continue trying. These doubters feel the basketball program has been harmed because it is arduous to compete on a national level without scholarships and resent the football team. They hope Fordham jumps to the Atlantic 10 Conference, a sincere possibility. "I want people to get rid of the negativism," pleaded Quartaro, who preaches patience and positive vibes in his first season as coach. "If your alumni can't support you, who can?" Ever dream of playing Division I-AA? At Columbia, tuition, room and board costs about $27,000 a year and Lawrence A. Wein Stadium is five miles away from campus so players are transported to practice at 218th Street on buses. Gary Edmonds, a cornerback, departs practice early on Tuesdays and Thursdays to attend his International Monetary Theory class. "It's one of my toughest classes or I might not do it half the time," explained Edmonds, apologetically. At Fordham, tuition, room and board is about $22,000, and support of the team has been scattered. There are student-athletes like Ryan Bathan, a receiver and accounting major who has the highest grade point average of any male athlete at 3.82. Bathan elicits more pride from his 14 catches than his gaudy grades and wonders about apathy toward football. "We don't really get any respect," said Bathan, who had a touchdown pass slither through his hands against Columbia. "We dedicate a lot of time and hard work to this team. We deserve respect." As the players trudged off the field yesterday, the reactions were a stark contrast. Those in light blue uniforms were delighted because Columbia, yes, Columbia, is winning. Those in maroon uniforms were despondent because Fordham's quest for a victory continued. By tomorrow morning, the players will have a similarity. They will return to being students first, athletes second, and will return to anonymity in the serene, leisurely world of Division I-AA. "We all love playing football and that's why we do it," said Bassett, the Columbia tight end who snared 8 passes for 108 yards. "But that's all it is. It's something that we do for the love of it. We all realize why we're here." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 9, 1994, on Page 8008008 of the National edition with the headline: FOOTBALL; Norman Rockwell Would Have Loved It. Columbia Surely Does, 24-13.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »