Advertisement By MIKE FREEMAN and  There have been rumors, quiet talk actually, that Dan Reeves has been sparring with Giants General Manager George Young. That Reeves, wanting to do his own drafting as well as coaching, just as he did in Denver, might bolt from the team and take a job with the Carolina Panthers down South, where he was born and reared. The rumors don't make much sense since the expansion team already has a general manager, but they are there nonetheless. Pam Reeves has heard the rumors and has one thing to say: Don't believe them. She knows. She knows Dan Reeves better than anyone and in her first extensive interview since arriving in New York last year, she said her husband isn't going anywhere and will fulfill his five-year contract. "They are rumors that we've heard, but they aren't true," said Pam Reeves. "There are always going to be those kind of rumors. Dan has a job here. He's very loyal. He has a contract with the Giants, and he plans on honoring that contract. "He goes to work every day for the Giants. He would never, ever think about going somewhere else while under contract with the Giants. He's too dedicated. If someone didn't want him here, then that would be different. But if Dan gives his word then his word is good. Make no mistake about that." Advertisement There you have it. And make no mistake about Pam Reeves: She is a strong, smart and interesting person and a strong defender of her husband. She actually gets angrier when negative things are said about Dan Reeves than Reeves does. There are times, she said half-jokingly, that her husband has to calm her down. Advertisement "When you love someone you're going to do everything you can to make their lives easier," she said. "Anyone can say anything about me, but don't criticize my husband or my children. I'll come out fighting. This weekend is a critical juncture for her husband and thus in effect for her. Reeves did a marvelous job with the Giants in his first season with the team, taking them to an 11-5 record and the second round of the playoffs. But if the Giants lose to the Pittsburgh Steelers on Sunday and fall to 3-4, their season would be in dire straights. It is these times, the potentially stressful times, that Pam Reeves tries to be as steady as her husband. While Dan Reeves sometimes seems close to the boiling point during the game, Pam Reeves says her husband doesn't bring it home with him. Instead, he dances with the grandkids, plays practical jokes and doesn't brood about went wrong in practice or a game. "People see him on the sidelines and see him explode," said Pam Reeves. "Once this year he got so mad at a call that he ripped the pocket from his pants when something caught him. But off the field, he's fun. He knows it hurts us when the Giants lose so he tries to be steady. He's the most steady person I have ever met."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. They have been married for 30 years, having met in high school before moving on together to the University of South Carolina. They have three children -- daughters Dana and Laura and a son, Lee, who is in law school at Southern Methodist University in Dallas. They also have two granddaughters -- Caitlin and Ashley. Pam Reeves says the recent times have been pretty good, especially last season. It wasn't always that way in Denver, especially the last season there, in 1992. She remembers how tough it was when Reeves was not re-signed as the Broncos coach after going 8-8 in his 12th year at the Denver helm. "We had just been through the lowest point in our life, not being re-signed in Denver," she recalled. "That season was horrible. Then we came here. It was a hard move because this area is a difficult one to adjust to. But we love it here and this organization is a family-oriented, loyal organization. "I certainly thought he deserved to be back in Denver. There was no reason to fire him. But it was almost a relief. There was the shock, then the anger, then the relief. I'm still bitter. Not for the actual firing but the reasons behind it." Advertisement In New York, Pam Reeves is more at peace. They have been married so long that she knows her husband's demanding work habits by heart. This past week, with just about everyone offering theories on what was wrong with the Giants, her husband only made it home for dinner once through Thursday. Still, Pam Reeves says no matter how late it is, her husband reads the Bible before going to bed. "He doesn't come home and kick the door when he loses," said Pam Reeves. "He turns on the television and watches TV. Or we go to the movies. When he gets home he tries not to have it where he's a coach." The Reeves, who live in North Jersey, have had their New York experiences, good and bad. When her mother is visiting, Pam Reeves often travels into Manhattan to catch a Broadway show. And she likes the fact that New York has a more academic flavor than Denver. But her car was broken into and the car telephone stolen, and she has yet to adjust to the traffic. Welcome to New York. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 23, 1994, on Page 8008003 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL; A Close Source (Wife) Says Reeves Is Staying.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »