Advertisement By GERALD ESKENAZI and  The winner of the Kentucky Derby was just another forgotten, mud-caked horse after today's Preakness. In fact, he was also a somewhat sick horse. Lil E. Tee went off as the second choice at better than 4-1, never showed a liking for the track that was soaked by a downpour Friday night and finished fifth. But his trainer, Lynn Whiting, said an examination revealed that his horse had bled slightly. Under stress, horses sometimes suffer pulmonary bleeding. That often is corrected by a diuretic likeLasix. Although the drug is legal in Kentucky and Maryland, it was not used today. It is illegal at New York racetracks. Thus, if Lil E. Tee is entered in the mile-and-a-half Belmont Stakes, the last of the Triple Crown races, it would be without the medication. However, Whiting didn't appear concerned that this was a serious problem since he described the bleeding as "slight." Advertisement Actually, Lil E. Tee was almost a forgotten horse even before the race. During the tediously slow post parade of 14 horses, the public-address announcer said: "And here's the Kentucky Derby winner! Lil E. Tee!" Virtual silence. Advertisement Perhaps the bumping he suffered just after today's start affected him. "He was not finding the race track to his liking," said his jockey, Pat Day. "Coming out of the gate, someone ran into his rear end. Then coming round the first turn, he spit the bit." In other words, Lil E. Tee didn't want to run today. He was in the back of the pack for half the race and made a mild move to get within half a dozen lengths of the front-runners. But he didn't improve his position in the stretch. "When Alydeed and Pine Bluff moved, they ran on past him," said Day. Pine Bluff won, with Alydeed second. "Failed to seriously menace" is the way the official chart describes Lil E. Tee's stretch performance. Whiting, who had been so optimistic in the morning, thought there was a move his horse made in the backstretch. "But he seemed to be fighting the track," said Whiting. Later, he watched with concern as Lil E. Tee cooled down, walking around the barn, stopping for a draught of water whenever he passed Stall 40. Whiting knew something was wrong. And then a "scope" examination revealed the bleeding. Stall 40 is where the Derby winner is stabled, the one with the plaque atop proclaiming that such horses as Secretariat, Majestic Prince, Seattle Slew and Northern Dancer slept here and went on to win the Preakness.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Whiting and the horse's 82-year-old owner, Cal Partee, weren't the only ones who saw something slip away. So did the people from Belmont. There will be no Triple Crown winner this year, once again. There hasn't been one since Affirmed in 1978. Advertisement What does this mean for the Belmont Stakes, the final jewel in the Triple Crown? "It means that Lil E. Tee's loss probably put a lot of horses in the Belmont," said Allen Gutterman, vice president of marketing for the New York Racing Association. And there will probably be a terrific price on Lil E. Tee, if he starts. Before learning of the bleeding, Whiting hoped the colt could enter the Belmont. But even winning the Derby didn't buy the muscular horse the respect his handlers believe he deserves. He went off at almost 17-1 in the Derby. Perhaps that is why a field of 14 went postward today -- the largest Preakness cast since 1970, when Personality outran a mediocre bunch. Everyone thought they had a chance at Lil E. Tee, whose breeder sold him to a blacksmith for $2,000 last year. Partee then bought the horse for $200,000. Lil E. Tee suffered by being an unheralded winner of a Kentucky Derby that someone else was supposed to capture. But Arazi, the odds-on favorite, finished eighth. And it became the Derby Arazi lost, not the Derby Lil E. Tee won. At big odds, to boot. That cavalier attitude continued to bother Lil E. Tee's groom, Chris Martin, who said, "There are still people who doubt." She recalled that after the Derby she said to the victorious rider, Day, "Well, maybe now he'll get some respect." And Day replied, "He'll have to win the Triple Crown to do that." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 17, 1992, on Page 8008009 of the National edition with the headline: HORSE RACING; When a Derby Winner Is Still Ignored.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »