Advertisement By CHARLIE NOBLES and  For much of his 10-year National Football League career, center Jeff Dellenbach has lived with the rap that the Miami Dolphins have little or no running game. "It's hard for me to tell you how frustrating that has been," Dellenbach said today, flashing a smile after the Dolphins' 28-14 victory over the Jets at Joe Robbie Stadium. "There have been times where some of us spoke out when maybe we shouldn't have," he said of the offensive linemen. "But it didn't seem to do much good." Until this season. After today's 155 yards rushing against the Jets -- Miami's second straight game of rushing for more than 100 yards -- word is getting out. The good-pass, no-run reputation of Dolphins teams in recent years no longer applies. Advertisement Clearly, these Dolphins are weaning themselves off a strict dependence on Dan Marino's right arm. "Part of it has been the uncertainty of Dan's injury," guard Keith Sims said, referring to Marino comeback back from Achilles' tendon surgery. "We were all asked to step it up a notch." Advertisement They apparently have. Against the Jets, who held the celebrated Thurman Thomas to 5 yards rushing in 7 carries in their season-opening victory over Buffalo, Miami controlled the ball for all but 2 minutes and 33 seconds of the game's first 16:17. "We moved the ball up and down the field," tackle Richmond Webb said matter-of-factly. "They didn't stop us today." It wasn't all the result of brute power, though. The element of surprise was there, too. Dellenbach said the Dolphins decided early in the week to use a different blocking scheme whenever they saw a certain Jets defensive alignment. "And every time they showed that defense, we got good yardage off it," Dellenbach said. He was reluctant to get more specific, inasmuch as the teams play again on Nov. 27. With last week's running star, Irving Spikes, out today with a knee injury, the second-year running back Terry Kirby turned in his first 100-yard rushing day -- exactly 100 yards on 15 carries. "We just told ourselves before the game that we were going to run the ball on them," Kirby said. "And we're talking now about being able to run the ball the whole season."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. With Miami ripping off steady yardage, Marino was hardly touched when he decided to pass, which he did for 289 yards and 2 touchdowns. "Running the ball is an attitude," Marino said. "If you have the attitude that you can run the ball, and you're going to come off and block some people, you have a better chance of making it happen." Advertisement Guard Bert Weidner sees that attitude emerging. He said when a certain draw play was worked on in practice at midweek, the players sent a message to the coaches: "We told them we didn't just want to run a draw, we wanted to run an aggressive draw." One result of that was a 30-yard gain by Kirby in the third quarter that led to Miami's final touchdown. By game's end, Miami -- which is now 19-2 in games over the last three seasons in which it has rushed for at least 100 yards -- had a bulge of eight and a half minutes over New York in time of possession. As Miami cornerback J. B. Brown cracked afterward, "That's one of the best defenses we have -- when we're not on the field." Brown had one of four Dolphin interceptions of Jets quarterback Boomer Esiason. The only troubling development for Miami on this day was that another defensive back was hurt. Cornerback Muhammad Oliver, starting his first N.F.L. game, injured his right knee in the late going and is scheduled for a magnetic resonance imaging test Monday. Oliver had replaced Frankie Smith, who had replaced Troy Vincent, both of whom suffered knee injuries. But even that predicament didn't take much post-game glow off Coach Don Shula's face. After all, the Jets had beaten Miami in 5 of their previous 6 meetings. "The way the Jets beat us in the two ball games last year was by controlling the clock and holding time and possession," the coach said. "We felt we had to turn that around. The last couple of ball games, we've talked about mixing up the offense more." Shula looked around the Miami locker room, then smiled, knowing he was on to something. "We're going to continue to do that," he said. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 19, 1994, on Page C00008 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL; A Hit in Miami: The Running Game.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »