Advertisement By ROBIN FINN and  At least Venus Williams didn't have to worry about choosing a Halloween costume for tonight's festivities: A player making her professional tennis debut on the WTA Tour usually settles for tennis whites and a familiar pair of sneakers. True to her promise not to tie herself to any sponsors too soon, the 14-year-old Williams wore a home-concocted outfit tonight at the Oakland Coliseum Arena. As a Jehovah's Witness, she doesn't celebrate Halloween anyway. Instead, she celebrated her first-ever professional match with a 6-3, 6-4 straight-set victory against 59th-ranked Shaun Stafford. "I wasn't sure how I'd do," said Williams, who performed with uncanny poise for a teen-ager who actually hadn't played in a tournament since she was 10 and couldn't recall the last time she faced a woman across the net. "I was just trying to feel my way through," said Williams, who lost her opening service game, immediately broke back, and never let down her guard again. Advertisement She also never sat down during the changeovers, bumping into Stafford once or twice as they made their way to their respective corners. Advertisement "I don't believe in sitting down; I don't want my muscles to get tight," said Williams, who saved her fiercest tennis for the final two games of the match, a trick she learned from watching Monica Seles close out matches without flinching. Once matters were knotted up at 4-4 in the second set, after Stafford's serving woes helped Williams claim the first in a 41-minute struggle, the newcomer toughened her attack. She broke Stafford for a 5-4 lead with a blazing down-the-line backhand, then served out the match at love, unleashing a go-for-broke service winner at triple match point. "At four-all she really went after it," said Stafford. "For her to be that good at 14 is awesome. When I was 14, I was immature, but this girl's mature. It's good to see she is in fact ready for the pros." Whether Williams is ready to face the world's No. 2 player, Arantxa Sanchez Vicario, Wednesday night in the second round isn't a question in the player's mind.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "I think I have the game to beat anyone," said Williams, who nonetheless made it clear she wasn't ready to predict an outcome for her second professional outing. Despite keeping her distance from the controversy percolating around her decision to join the WTA Tour at 14, Williams has long understood that her debut would be regarded as a moment of truth, not a mere introduction. That's why she requested that it take place in California, her home state: She could conjure up comforting memories of going undefeated here against her peers back when she was 10. And surrounded by an entourage that included her parents, her sister, her coach, a hitting partner and the family's lawyer and accountant -- who maintained they were on hand for moral support rather than contractual assistance for the new pro -- Williams cruised through her debut with a refreshing mix of serenity and ambition. Advertisement While her father, Richard, coped with the camera crews and the news media interrogations, Williams simply went onto the court and, as the Rolling Stones played next door to a crowd of 45,000, proved her mettle to this first-round gathering of 900. Stafford was not critical of the hysteria accompanying Williams' debut, which so far has eclipsed not only the last-ever appearance here by 38-year-old Martina Navratilova, but also overshadowed the professional debut of 16-year-old Meilen Tu, the 1994 U.S. Open junior champion, and the return to the circuit of Sanchez Vicario, the reigning French and U.S. Open champion. "She's going to be great for women's tennis," said Stafford. Macci, who has coached Williams since she was 11, said this positive beginning came as a relief. "After all, she hadn't competed in three years, and when you've got a 14-year-old with the type of game Venus has, it's a little dicey: she doesn't just stand at the baseline and bang away at the ball," said Macci, who also coached Jennifer Capriati prior to her turning pro at 13. "Venus's game is probably five times more complicated than Jennifer's was at this age, and that means there's going to be more mistakes." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 1, 1994, on Page B00010 of the National edition with the headline: TENNIS; Williams Tastes Victory at Prime-Time Debut.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »