Advertisement  All members of the Dream Team will be there on the medal podium after all, apparently, if the Dream Team is fortunate enough to win medals. Another controversy has been resolved with the compromise that anyone (Michael Jordan) who has a personal corporate sponsor (Nike) who objects to the team sponsor's name (Reebok) showing on the standard-issue uniform (United States) has the right to obscure what he does not want to show (logo). "However," Dave Gavitt, president of USA Basketball, said in a statement after meeting with United States Olympic Committee officials, "in no instance will the uniforms be defaced or covered by any other material." So what does that mean? "They can turn down their collars to cover the logo," a U.S.O.C. staffer said. "But we can't say that." Party Out of Bounds Advertisement The athletes' village may appear at first glance to be a peaceful splash of high rises beside the sea but it is turning into party central. Today, a spokesman at the village said he was calling in police to begin patrols, in response to complaints about late-night noise. Advertisement "It's the only way to control the situation," said Armando Calvo, who reported complaints from some residents about athletes being loud and drunken. "Sometimes they get into arguments with volunteers checking their credentials." El Mundo Deportivo, the Spanish sports daily, reports that the problem is largely centered on athletes who have already finished their competition. They play their music loud and return less than quietly from late parties. "Maybe it's a mistake to give free housing; because of that, no one is leaving," said Li Gwang Sik, the North Korean bantamweight who defeated Serafim Todorov of Bulgaria on Monday to gain the boxing semifinals. But the boxer said he understood the urge to party. "They can't make us live a monk life," he told the paper. "We're free now." How About Dan and Robert? Reebok doesn't have Dan and Dave in the decathlon, but it has Dave and Robert. That's Robert Zmelik of Czechoslovakia, who is a long shot to medal in the event but is welcome on Reebok's team anyway. Tale of the Tape, and Ice Packs  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The supplies are going fast for the American athletes here. Ed Ryan, head trainer for United States Olympic Committee operations at the athletes village, says American athletes have already used up 3,500 rolls of tape, 5,000 ice packs and 4,000 bandages, not to mention 1,200 disposable electric stimulation pads for use with ultrasound equipment. Ryan said there was nothing abnormal in the numbers. "We're finding dehydration is one of our biggest problems to date," he said. "The heat and humidity are creating havoc for our athletes." Used Syringes Found in Village Used syringes -- possibly for injecting vitamins -- have been found in the rooms of some athletes staying in the Olympic village. "It appears the athletes are doing the injections themselves," said Prince Alexandre de Merode, chairman of the International Olympic Committee medical commission. De Merode said that housekeepers have been complaining about finding the syringes in wastebaskets. "I can't prejudge what they were used for," he said. "It could be nothing. It could be an innocent product like vitamins. Advertisement "But I believe this is dangerous," he said. "Athletes should be careful not to take any medication without consulting their medical doctor." Armando Calvo, director of the Olympic Village, said needles have been found "on a general basis" throughout the village, rather than in one area. He said the cleaning company had not specified the number of syringes. Jim Montgomery, head physician for the United States team, said it's not uncommon for athletes to take injections of vitamin B-12. "I know for a fact that when countries came into the village, the Polyclinic ran out of B-12 and they had to get an extra supply," he said. "Everyone wanted some. A lot of our track and field guys have wanted shots." Montgomery said he doesn't hand out syringes or let the athletes administer the injections themselves. "We have all our used syringes right here at the sports medicine center in the village," Montgomery said. "We give the shots ourselves."(AP) We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 5, 1992, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: BARCELONA: NOTEBOOK; Don't Like the Sponsor? Just Zip It.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »