Advertisement By MIKE FREEMAN and  When Chuck Daly was in Detroit, he had some of the best talent in the league on his bench. If the Pistons were snoozing offensively, Daly could call on guard Vinnie Johnson and he was an instant slap in the face. Now, after winning two championships with the Pistons, after winning an Olympic gold medal with perhaps the best bench ever assembled, Daly finds himself frustrated by his current bench. Today, after the Nets players practiced for their Thursday night game against Mark Jackson and the Los Angeles Clippers, Daly talked like a man longing for the past. Longing for the days when he could look left or right and get a player in the game who brings an automatic 12 points when the starters are in slow motion. "We don't have a lot of punch off the bench," he said. "It's not going to change. We don't have offensive people coming off the bench." 'This Is Our Roster' Asked if it had come to the point that the Nets need to seek new players to get that desired punch, Daly said: "I don't know. This is our roster. We have to figure it out and maybe that's never going to happen. Some teams have it and some teams don't. I think most of your best teams have one or two guys, a guard, that can come off the bench and score. Advertisement "If you can get that, the nights when your first line guys aren't scoring, it really helps you. But right now I don't see it." Advertisement The Nets lost to Phoenix on Tuesday night, 105-100, ending their six-game winning streak. One reason was the Suns' bench, one of the deepest in the National Basketball Association. Four reserves scored in double figures against the Nets. The bench becomes even more important for the Nets because forward Derrick Coleman, still nursing a strained knee, might not come back for another week. "I'm sensing maybe next week," said Daly, "but it's up to Derrick."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Nets' reserves usually are center Chris Dudley, guards Rumeal Robinson and Tate George and forward Chucky Brown. Dudley is good at grabbing rebounds and, against Phoenix, Brown had 8 points in a reserve role. Robinson was the first guard off the bench against the Suns but made only two shots in seven attempts. Robinson is a great talent who sometimes plays like an All-Star but sometimes plays like he is seeing stars. Looking for Leadership As far as Daly is concerned, part of the problem is that the Nets aren't aggressive on defense. Remember, this is a man who coached the Bad Boys, but that doesn't mean Daly is asking for his players to act like thugs. His philosophy: Defense leads to the transition game and the transition game leads to layups. "This team, it has a little more of a passive personality than I'm used to," said Daly. And part of that, Daly said, is the lack of one player, any player, stepping forward to take the lead. "That's what you call internal leadership," he said, "and it's not about telling a guy off, it's not about pointing fingers, it's a quiet responsibility a guy has to lead the team internally." In Detroit, there was Isiah Thomas or Dennis Rodman. Rick Mahorn, who played with Daly in Detroit before eventually following him to New Jersey, is also a good leader but since he is new to the team, it will take some time before he can have an impact on the young Nets. "All we have to do is stick together," said Mahorn. "We lost one game and you have to say, 'That game is out of here now. Let's go start another streak.' But the thing is you want to stop the bleeding fast." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 10, 1992, on Page B00024 of the National edition with the headline: PRO BASKETBALL; Nets' Bench Strength Is Merely a Weakness.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »