Advertisement Supported by Extra Bases By Tyler Kepner Sometimes a city hosts an All-Star Game, and the event lines up perfectly with the local team’s fortunes. The Montreal Expos, coming off their only postseason appearance, had four starters in 1982. Pedro Martinez, at the height of his pitching powers for the Boston Red Sox, started for the American League at Fenway Park in 1999. Ichiro Suzuki, in the middle of a spellbinding rookie season for Seattle, led off for the American League at Safeco Field in 2001. And then there are years like 1994, when the Pittsburgh Pirates hosted after losing all their superstars. Their lone All-Star was infielder Carlos Garcia. Two years later, when the last-place Philadelphia Phillies hosted, Ricky Bottalico represented the home team. He followed three superstars — John Smoltz, Kevin Brown and Tom Glavine — and pitched a scoreless inning. The Minnesota Twins will host this year’s All-Star Game on July 15 in the midst of another season as an A.L. also-ran. Their franchise frontman, the six-time All-Star Joe Mauer, has a career-low on-base plus slugging percentage, .695. But he was rounding into form, hitting .362 during a 12-game hitting streak, when he strained his right oblique while doubling on Tuesday. The injury forced him to the disabled list for at least 15 days, a term that concludes the day after the All-Star Game. “Anytime you get a chance to go to an All-Star Game, it’s an exciting time, especially one in your hometown,” Mauer, the Twins’ first baseman, told The St. Paul Pioneer-Press. “It’s tough to describe. I definitely wanted to be a part of this as a player. I guess that’s out of the question now.” Even with his recent surge, Mauer’s case for inclusion would have been largely based on sentiment. Finding a Twins All-Star based on 2014 production is a bit of a challenge. Starter Phil Hughes, closer Glen Perkins and second baseman Brian Dozier played well in the first half, but not quite at All-Star levels for their positions. The best candidate is Kurt Suzuki, who replaced Mauer behind the plate this year and has been one of the A.L.’s best catchers, with an average around .300 and a strong on-base percentage. Fans pick the starting position players and the final reserve. Players pick most of the reserves and pitchers. The managers — John Farrell of the Red Sox for the A.L. and Mike Matheny of the St. Louis Cardinals for the National League — pick the last few spots, with every team needing at least one representative. Teams can have 21 position players and 13 pitchers, or 20 position players and 14 pitchers. “There’s very little control over it from the manager’s perspective,” said Tampa Bay Manager Joe Maddon, who guided the A.L. in 2009 after the Rays won the pennant the previous fall. “You’re going to get those couple at the end, and the spoils go to the victor. There’s going to be some bias; don’t let anybody tell you otherwise.” This is why some players on the borderline, like Red Sox starter Jon Lester and designated hitter David Ortiz, might be nudged onto the team if Farrell has the chance to choose them. But the task can be excruciating. “I hated it, because you know you’re leaving deserving guys off,” said the Yankees’ Joe Girardi, the A.L. manager in 2010. He added: “That’s why I wish they would expand the roster. But in saying that, if you expand the roster, well, there’s still going to be that next guy all the time.” The rosters are swollen enough, with 34 active players per side. By the time all replacements are added, few deserving players stay home. Seventy-nine players were named All-Stars last season, including injured players and pitchers who started on the Sunday before the game and declined to participate. This year’s All-Star rosters will be announced Sunday, with the inevitable trickle of additions as the week goes along. Here are the players who should be on the teams, with deserving starters listed first. NATIONAL LEAGUE First base: Paul Goldschmidt, Anthony Rizzo, Justin Morneau. Second base: Chase Utley, Dee Gordon, Daniel Murphy. Shortstop: Troy Tulowitzki, Hanley Ramirez. Third base: Todd Frazier, Casey McGehee. Catcher: Jonathan Lucroy, Devin Mesoraco, Buster Posey. Outfield: Andrew McCutchen, Giancarlo Stanton, Yasiel Puig, Carlos Gomez, Hunter Pence, Seth Smith, Justin Upton. Pitcher: Adam Wainwright, Henderson Alvarez, Madison Bumgarner, Aroldis Chapman, Johnny Cueto, Zack Greinke, Tim Hudson, Clayton Kershaw, Craig Kimbrel, Francisco Rodriguez, Alfredo Simon, Huston Street, Julio Teheran, Jordan Zimmermann. Toughest omissions: Matt Adams, Josh Beckett, Charlie Blackmon, Freddie Freeman, Jason Hammel, Kyle Lohse, Yadier Molina, Rafael Soriano. AMERICAN LEAGUE First base: Edwin Encarnacion, Jose Abreu, Miguel Cabrera. Second base: Jose Altuve, Robinson Cano, Ian Kinsler. Shortstop: Derek Jeter, Alexei Ramirez. Third base: Adrian Beltre, Josh Donaldson. Catcher: Sal Perez, Derek Norris, Kurt Suzuki. Designated hitter: Nelson Cruz, Victor Martinez. Outfield: Jose Bautista, Michael Brantley, Mike Trout, Yoenis Cespedes, Coco Crisp, Adam Jones. Pitcher: Felix Hernandez, Masahiro Tanaka, Dellin Betances, Mark Buehrle, Sean Doolittle, Yu Darvish, Greg Holland, Corey Kluber, Jon Lester, David Price, Garrett Richards, Chris Sale, Koji Uehara. Toughest omissions: Lonnie Chisenhall, Alex Gordon, Scott Kazmir, Dallas Keuchel, David Ortiz, Rick Porcello, Fernando Rodney, Max Scherzer, Kyle Seager. Jeter, of course, is not having an All-Star-caliber season, but the A.L. is strikingly weak at shortstop this season. Retiring players of Jeter’s caliber — like Ozzie Smith in 1996, Cal Ripken in 2001 and Mariano Rivera at Citi Field last summer — are generally celebrated at their final All-Star Game.  For Rivera, who was given a sentimental Most Valuable Player award after working a 1-2-3 eighth inning in the A.L.’s 3-0 victory, it was his final appearance on a national stage because the Yankees did not reach the postseason. With the way the Yankees have played in the first half of this season, Jeter could be facing the same fate. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS