Advertisement  Ira Berkow The Hon. David N. Dinkins, the second most famous plane-swatter in Gotham history, was explaining yesterday afternoon along with a handful of others why New York City ought to have a new tennis center in its midst, and why the old one had become one bum joint. He was a passionate tennis advocate, as is his custom. (He is sometimes an endangered tennis advocate, as exemplified by the dark glasses he wore some time ago because of a ball at net that caught him smack in the eye.) Last summer, he used his substantial mayoral muscle to get the Federal Aviation Administration to divert for two weeks the path of airplanes from La Guardia; the planes stopped roaring over the National Tennis Center and thus provided the United States Open with the relative tranquillity it needed. It is widely known, after all, that the Mayor is a heated devotee of the game of Tilden and Lenglen, of Borg and Goolagong, of Becker and Capriati. Especially Capriati. "Remember," Dinkins told those assembled for the news conference at City Hall, "it was Jennifer Capriati last year who said, 'The Mayor is one cool dude.' " While the Mayor was proudly recalling the pronouncement of the ninth-grade tennis star, and hailing the plans of the United States Tennis Association to develop a $150 million expansion of the tennis center in Flushing -- "the world's greatest tennis tournament will remain in the world's greatest city" -- others were less enthusiastic. Advertisement Outside, in the lobby of City Hall, a representative of the Committee for the Preservation of Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, Benjamin M. Haber, a Manhattan attorney, was saying that the U.S.T.A. had "extorted" the city administration to accept its offer to build a new tennis center over 31 acres of park area. Advertisement "That's like taking away air to breathe," Haber said. "You want more grass and trees and park. Not less. And if you want to sell the park to help the city's finances, then why doesn't the city just sell off Central Park to the Japanese for $15 billion and they won't have to worry about the budget here well into the 21st century." Among those with the Mayor to announce the plans for expansion of the tennis center was the Queens Borough President, Claire Shulman, who is trying to sell the proposal to community groups in her borough. One of those groups is Community Board 8, a governing body for one of the five Queens districts that border the Flushing Meadows-Corona Park. Community Board 8 voted unanimously last month to oppose any expansion of the tennis center. "There are differences of opinion, and my opinion is this is good for the city," she said. "I also want to make clear that we'll be adding back some of the park acreage at Flushing Meadows that will be lost in construction." The Mayor said that the United States Open lends prestige to New York, and also "stimulates our bank account while inspiring our backhand." There was discussion about how much revenue a tournament like the Open brings to New York, from hotel occupancy to construction.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "What they want to do," Haber said, "is make this into a Meadowlands. Right now, the park they're planning to build on is used mainly by poor blacks and Hispanics and Asians. But they have no political clout, so the city administration doesn't care about them." The Mayor was asked about the cost of building the new center, which would be more spacious than the current one, with more seating, for more people to walk around the grounds (and purchase the exorbitantly priced food at the stands). That, he said, will be paid for by the U.S.T.A. What the tennis group wants from the city in return is a long lease, and improved access, such as roadways and walkways. That would cost the city a proposed $11 million. Advertisement "But we would have use of it for two weeks of the year," said Ed Fabricius, a spokesman for the U.S.T.A. "The city would have use of it for 50 weeks." The city would also get to use it for extensive tennis programs the rest of the year, and earn a profit from that. Fabricius said that "extortion of the city" weren't the words that came to mind concerning this center. "We want to stay here because of the history, because of the transportion, because of the uniqueness of New York City," he said. "We did look briefly into sites in Westchester and on Long Island, but we never gave it any extended thought." The Mayor said that all during the year there would be tennis programs for young people from all areas of the city. "And perhaps out of that will come a new Arthur Ashe, a new Zina Garrison, a new John McEnroe," he said. Then, he paused and added, "Maybe even a new David Dinkins." The Mayor smiled. "Where are the laughs," he said. "You people don't usually need this kind of prompting." Outside, a man named Haber was seeking to get in. "I'm a tax-paying citizen," he told a guard. "I want to hear the Mayor with my own ears." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 20, 1991, on Page D00025 of the National edition with the headline: SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Planes, Refrains And Tennis.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »