Advertisement By ALEX YANNIS and  The Devils squeezed out another 2-1 triumph over the Sabres, even though they lost Bernie Nicholls, a key player on offense and on the penalty-killing unit. Nicholls bruised his left knee in the first period and missed the last two periods. Stephane Richer and Tommy Albelin scored the goals tonight. But the keys to New Jersey's victory were the Devils' ability to kill five of six penalties and the goaltending of Martin Brodeur. The 21-year-old Brodeur seems to be getting stronger as the series progresses. This was the best game of the series for the rookie, who stopped 30 shots and allowed only Alexander Mogilny's power-play goal early in the third. "The guys shut them down; they did a heck of job," said Brodeur, giving credit to his teammates, who joined Coach Jacques Lemaire in raving about the rookie's performance. Advertisement "Brodeur played great tonight," Lemaire said. "He had some tough saves from in close. He's played well in all three games." Advertisement "Marty made some good ones tonight," said Scott Stevens, the Devils' captain. "But the whole team worked hard and played well. There was some pressure on people to kill penalties and they came through." Brodeur and Stevens, who scored the game-winner Tuesday night in the 2-1 victory in New Jersey, were again two of the key players in helping the Devils take the lead in the four-of-seven-game series, which will continue with Game 4 here Saturday night before it returns to New Jersey on Monday night. The Devils took the lead in the series because they were effective over all. But their efficiency in killing penalties was a deciding factor. Even missing Nicholls, the Devils were particularly superb killing 4-on-3 and a 5-on-4 manpower disadvantages midway through the second period. Stevens, Claude Lemieux and Scott Niedermayer were magnificent during those two Buffalo power plays, keeping the Sabres from shooting during the two penalties.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "The guys did a fantastic job on that 4-on-3," said Bobby Carpenter, who plays on the first unit killing penalties, but was in the penalty box when the Devils killed that penalty. "That was definitely a turning point because we came out a little after that and scored the second goal." The Devils' success in killing the penalties took the crowd away from the Sabres and inspired the Devils to look forward. New Jersey scored its second goal after killing its fourth straight penalty. Randy McKay came out of the penalty box at 15:22 after committing the fourth penalty and made the pass for Albelin's winner. Advertisement With Petr Svoboda falling down inside his blue line, Domink Hasek, who made 24 saves, came out of his goal to poke the puck away, but McKay got to it first and pushed it to Albelin for the easy goal at 15:43. Svoboda was also in the middle of Richer's goal as he smacked into his own goal after a check by Tom Chorske and made Hasek's job tough on the play. Chorske went to the net after giving the puck to Jimmy Dowd and knocked Svoboda down into his crease. Richer got the puck in the slot and beat Hasek with 58.3 seconds left before the first intermission. "I hate to say this again," said Richer, who also scored the first goal Tuesday night, "but that was a big play for us. The first goal is always big in a tight series." SLAP SHOTS The Devils, who like to minimize injuries, said BERNIE NICHOLLS's status is day-to-day. . . . JIM DOWD for COREY MILLEN was the only change for the Devils from Game 2. Dowd played the first game and Millen the second. . . . The Devils have now killed 15 of 17 penalties against the Sabres. . . . Buffalo recalled four players from its top minor league affiliate, the Rochester Americans of the American Hockey League, which was eliminated from the playoffs Wednesday night, but did not use anyone in the game. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 22, 1994, on Page B00012 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; Devils Stop Power Play But Lose Nicholls.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »