1:47 p.m. | Updated Charlotte James, host of the Australian Open launch webcast, reported that Martina Hingis has only committed to the legends event at the 2012 Australian Open thus far, and is not confirmed for mixed doubles. Leo Schlink of the Herald Sun newspaper in Melbourne reports that Martina Hingis is “expected to make a return” at the 2012 Australian Open, which will be held Jan. 16-29. The report says that Hingis would not return for singles, but rather for mixed doubles and a legends event.  The report comes a day before a scheduled press conference about the 2012 Australian Open, which is to feature a “a live Q & A session with our surprise tennis superstar guest.”  The report continues months of speculation about a possible return to competition for Hingis, stemming from her admission in July that she had been approached by a member of Roger Federer’s camp about possibly competing together for Switzerland in mixed doubles at the 2012 Olympics in London. Mixed doubles, which has not been an Olympic discipline in tennis since 1924, is being reintroduced at next year’s competition, which will be held in Wimbledon at the hallowed All-England Club. At a tournament in Cincinnati in August, Federer discussed his intention to speak to Hingis about their possible partnership. It is not yet known whether Hingis’ possible play in Melbourne would be with Federer or another partner. Paul McNamee, director of the annual Hopman Cup event in Perth that precedes the Australian Open, spoke of his intention to recruit Federer and Hingis to his tournament during the U.S. Open. Andy Roddick and Serena Williams, who have confirmed their plans to partner in London, had previously announced their intent to play mixed doubles together at the 2012 Australian Open shortly after the 2011 U.S. Open concluded. Journalists from The New York Times and The International Herald Tribune (along with a few dedicated fans) are following the Grand Slam tournaments, on and off the court. They will provide updates, insights, links and analysis while setting the scene from the stands as well as the press room. 
			This blog’s regular features, including live tournament analysis, news and notes from Christopher Clarey, Ben Rothenberg and others, and other coverage, can now be found on the tennis section front.Read more… 
			Venus Williams, ranked No. 63, beat No. 2 Victoria Azarenka in Tokyo on Tuesday, her first win over a player in the top two since 2009.Read more… 
			The United States learned on Wednesday that it would host a first-round tie with Britain for the 2014 Davis Cup.Read more… 
			According to one celebrity marketing index, Andy Murray is the most appealing of the so-called Big Four in men’s tennis. Read more… 
			Sloane Stephens walked the runway Thursday night in the Just Dance With Boy Meets Girl fashion show, modeling the designs of Stacy Igel.Read more… Advertisement