Advertisement By RICHARD SANDOMIR A Brooklyn Dodgers game was incomplete for Meyer Robinson without his 16-millimeter movie camera. In the 1940's and 1950's, the camera was his constant companion when he brought family and friends or stole away at lunchtime from his Bush Terminal winery, where Manischewitz sweet kosher wines were made. "He loved making home movies," said his daughter, Gale Goldberg. "On one reel, there'd be Pee Wee Reese and my fifth birthday party." Robinson shot the film for fun, as a doting fan or father would. He brought out the bulky reels for showings over the years, but there was no premonition that they would be valuable in the 1990's. So they resided in large silver canisters, and were later transferred to videotape, in Robinson's Long Island home. But in 1990, Robinson, then 83 years old, encountered a producer, Steve Stern. Stern and a co-producer, George Roy, were told that Robinson had film of the Dodgers that they could use for a centennial documentary of the team. Advertisement "This was our first glimpse of Ebbets Field in color," said Stern. "The seats were blue. The railings were red. The outfield wall was amazing." Advertisement Robinson's footage gave Stern and Roy a thought. If one man had such great home movies, were there more out there? And once edited, wouldn't they all make a wonderful film? Thus was born 1991's "When It Was a Game" on Home Box Office, the Peabody Award-winning reminiscence of baseball between 1934 and 1957, before television and multi-purpose stadiums began to dominate the sport. The film was lovingly stitched together from the home movies of players, coaches and a few fans (notably Robinson). "He was very proud of it," said Robinson's son, Sandy. "He watched it whenever it was on. He watched it on TV even though he had a tape of it." Robinson lent Stern and Roy his images of Jackie Robinson dancing on the basepaths, Duke Snider rounding third after a home run, Roy Campanella beating out a bunt, Bogie and Bacall in the stands during a World Series game and a vanished ball park that grows more beautiful in memory each year. "He seemed to have footage from every game of the 1956 World Series except for Don Larsen's perfect game," said Stern. "When I asked him where it was, he said, 'I don't know.' " Robinson was more than an average fan. He befriended the Dodgers, inviting them to his winery for dinners (details of which he never revealed to his family). He golfed with Jackie Robinson. Ate spaghetti and meatballs at Carl Furillo's restaurant. Sent wine to Vin Scully's mother. The privileged position allowed the wine mogul access to the players and entree onto the field. It seemed like he belonged. When Jackie Robinson waves to the camera, he is saying hello to Meyer Robinson.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In a photograph taken on a day honoring Furillo, Meyer Robinson's round, mustached face is visible over the player's right shoulder. It is one of many photos in which Robinson is a frequent face in the background. Advertisement "He was like 'Zelig,' " said Marshall Goldberg, Robinson's son-in-law, referring to a Woody Allen character who magically appears with historical figures in films. "There's his picture, and here and there." Said Sandy Robinson: "Jackie Robinson came to my bar mitzvah. Eddie Stanky sent me his glove. One year, my father asked the players to write me at summer camp. I showed one letter from Jackie and they thought I was kidding, that I had an uncle named Jack." Meyer Robinson reminisced often about the Brooklyn Dodgers, especially in his later years, and sent interested friends copies of black and white photographs of Dodgers that he kept meticulously in an old winery box. In a taped interview with Stern, he recalled: "In 1955, when they finally won the World Series, it was the greatest thing that ever happened." The documentary gave new life to Robinson's celluloid memories. His films had convinced HBO's executive producer, Ross Greenburg, to proceed with the project. "We wished that we could have found other Meyers," said Greenburg, "but we haven't gotten one other like him." The progress and success of the production thrilled Robinson. He was made to feel like a part of the filmmaking process, calling Stern often to know what segments of his footage survived the cut. After the film premiered last July, he called for extra copies of the tape to send to friends. "He loved the fact that we could put him and his wife and friends in the film," said Stern. "Every time our names were in the paper, he'd call." As Robinson lay ill recently at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan, he received a note from Vin Scully. Robinson's grandson, Andy Goldberg, a broadcast associate at CBS Sports, had askedthe Dodgers' announcer to jot a few words. Robinson and his wife, Roslyn, had attended Scully's first wedding. "It was a beautiful note," said Marshall Goldberg, "that brightened the day." Eleven days ago, Stern and Roy were wrapping up production on a sequel, "When It Was a Game, 2," which will be televised on HBO July 12. The second film has a six-minute segment on the Dodgers, for which Robinson's 16-millimeter film again proved important. Advertisement A call came, telling them Robinson had died at age 86. The next day, a death notice listed Robinson's achievements. It concluded with the phrase that he was a "lifelong Brooklyn Dodgers fan." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 23, 1992, on Page B00012 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL: TV SPORTS; A Homemade Boy of Summer.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »