Bruce Boudreau’s unemployment lasted all of 65 hours. Fired Monday by the Capitals, Boudreau was named the new head coach of the Anaheim Ducks late Wednesday night. According to the Elias Sports Bureau, Boudreau’s mere six-day break between coaching games for two different franchises is the briefest in league history. When he leads his new team Friday against Philadelphia, he will become just the seventh man to coach two N.H.L. teams in one season. Boudreau replaces Randy Carlyle, who led Anaheim to the Stanley Cup in 2007 and a victory over Montreal at home Wednesday. But Carlyle’s Ducks had lost 16 of 18 games before his final night on the job, prompting General Manager Bob Murray to reluctantly place a call to Boudreau after his sacking in Washington. “This was an extremely difficult decision,” said Murray, thanking his former coach for the Stanley Cup and his work throughout his six-season tenure. Murray went on to say, “At this time, we simply felt a new voice was needed. Bruce is a proven winner with a great track record, and we are optimistic he can turn this season around.” Just as Boudreau was charged in Washington with maximizing the talents of the Capitals’ world-class forwards, he takes over a roster with a highly skilled first line, but not much depth. The Ducks seem to go only as far as Ryan Getzlaf, Corey Perry, Bobby Ryan and Teemu Selanne take them. This season, they are in 14th place in the Western Conference. Murray is following the N.H.L. tradition  of replacing a taskmaster in Carlyle with Boudreau’s softer touch. The easy-going, offensive-minded Boudreau appears to be the perfect fit for the Ducks. Although Ryan, a three-time 30-goal scorer, is still available in a trade for a package of veterans and prospects, Boudreau will give his star forwards the confidence to freestyle. Of course, to play run-and-gun, he will need superior goaltending. Boudreau rarely had it in important games with Washington.  Anaheim’s top goalie is Jonas Hiller, a Swiss Olympian who has battled the puck all season and has a 3.10 goals against average (28th in the league) and .899 save percentage (33rd). Boudreau can charm Ryan out of his funk and motivate Getzlaf and Perry to dominate more consistently. But if Muller fails to regain his sharpness — or Murray doesn’t make a deal for a reliable goaltender — it won’t matter who is behind the bench. Slap Shot, the New York Times hockey blog, reports on the Rangers, the National Hockey League and anything that glides quickly across a frozen surface anywhere on the globe, from the snowy prairies of Saskatchewan to the frigid steppes of Russia and beyond, like, say, Phoenix.
 
			Thank you for visiting Slap Shot. This blog’s regular features, including live game analysis, reader discussion, news and notes from Jeff Z. Klein and others, can now be found on the Hockey section front.Read more… 
			With the 65th overall pick, the Rangers chose Adam Tambellini, a 6-foot-2 center whose father and brother each played for the Islanders. Read more… 
			The Devils took Anthony Brodeur, an 18-year-old goalie, with the 208th pick of the 211-pick draft, sending their seventh-round pick in 2015 to the Kings in exchange for the chance to pick Brodeur. Read more… 
			The Islanders sent Nino Niederreiter to Minnesota for Cal Clutterbuck, and took defenseman Ryan Pulock with the 15th over all pick in Sunday’s N.H.L. draft.Read more… 
			The Rangers announced Friday that they would not use their remaining compliance buyout this summer, ensuring that Brad Richards will return to the team for at least one more season.Read more… Follow Advertisement