Advertisement By HARVEY ARATON and  A tongue-lashing at halftime followed by a rally in the second half kept the United States women's basketball team from leaving the Olympics without a medal today. But the bronze medal the Americans won by defeating Cuba, 88-74, is very likely to be more of a reminder of the gold that got away. "It's not what I wanted," the American coach, Theresa Grentz, said softly. "But it would've been worse to go home with no hardware at all." It will be difficult for the United States women to climb aboard the USA Basketball charter flight home Saturday night, along with the Dream Team, having failed to make the statement about the American women's game they longed to make. Advertisement In the final analysis, this tournament, won tonight by the Unified Team, which defeated China, 76-66, in the gold medal game, proved that there is serious global parity in the women's game worldwide. Advertisement "I still feel like we're the best team here," said Teresa Edwards, a gold medalist with the United States in 1984 and 1988 who scored 18 points and had 5 assists today. "We just didn't prove it." For the 90 minutes it took to defeat Cuba, one of two teams to beat the Americans at the Pan Am Games last summer in Havana, the memory of the Unified Team's scuttling of the Americans' pressure defense and their own 35 percent shooting had to be set aside.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Cuba beat the Unified Team by 2 points in the preliminary round before being mysteriously routed by China, 109-70, in the semifinals. Athletic, if not deep, the Cubans led for most of the first half, before the United States pulled even at 44 at the half. What Grentz sensed in her players was a malaise relative to the realization that no matter what the outcome of the battle today, the war had already been lost. "She let us know, in no uncertain terms, that we were still representing our country, that we still had a job to do," said Teresa Weatherspoon. Trailing by a point with under eight minutes to play, bounce suddenly returned to their steps, and life to their defense and transition game. Tammy Jackson's driving layup, a steal and break by Edwards, a textbook jumper by Clarissa Davis and a 3-pointer by Edwards built a 75-69 lead. Over the final 7 minutes 48 seconds, the tiring Cubans got sloppy with the ball and scored just 7 points. This had been the grand design, to wear opponents down with pressure and depth. The Unified Team had solved the dilemma of the press, turned the semifinal into a second-half struggle on equal, half-court terms, reducing an American team that had spoken of its desire to create a legacy for its style to playing for third place. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 8, 1992, on Page 1001030 of the National edition with the headline: BARCELONA: BASKETBALL; It May Not Be the Top Medal, But U.S. Gets Medal of Honor.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »