Corey Trivino, a Boston University center and the leading goal scorer in the Hockey East conference, was thrown off the team by Coach Jack Parker after being arrested Sunday on charges of indecent assault and battery. Parker told BU Today that Trivino had been dismissed from the team. Trivino pleaded not guilty to all the charges at his arraignment on Monday in Brighton District Court. Suffolk County Assistant District Attorney Cameron Merrill said in court that witnesses described an intoxicated Trivino breaking into the room of a female student and attempting to kiss and grope her. He was charged with three counts of indecent assault and battery, two counts of breaking and entering and one count of assault with attempt to rape. Trivino, a senior, was drafted by the Islanders in 2008. He is undeniably talented — he has 13 goals and 4 assists in 15 games for the Terriers this season — but has had a troubled college career. After injuries helped derail his first two seasons, last spring he was suspended for two games for showing up late for a disciplinary bike ride, which was punishment for breaking alcohol-related team rules on St. Patrick’s Day. He found more trouble for participating in a profanity-filled rap video with teammates Vinny and Victor Saponari that was posted on the Internet. The Saponaris were dismissed from the team, but Trivino was suspended for another two games. Slap Shot, the New York Times hockey blog, reports on the Rangers, the National Hockey League and anything that glides quickly across a frozen surface anywhere on the globe, from the snowy prairies of Saskatchewan to the frigid steppes of Russia and beyond, like, say, Phoenix.
 
			Thank you for visiting Slap Shot. This blog’s regular features, including live game analysis, reader discussion, news and notes from Jeff Z. Klein and others, can now be found on the Hockey section front.Read more… 
			With the 65th overall pick, the Rangers chose Adam Tambellini, a 6-foot-2 center whose father and brother each played for the Islanders. Read more… 
			The Devils took Anthony Brodeur, an 18-year-old goalie, with the 208th pick of the 211-pick draft, sending their seventh-round pick in 2015 to the Kings in exchange for the chance to pick Brodeur. Read more… 
			The Islanders sent Nino Niederreiter to Minnesota for Cal Clutterbuck, and took defenseman Ryan Pulock with the 15th over all pick in Sunday’s N.H.L. draft.Read more… 
			The Rangers announced Friday that they would not use their remaining compliance buyout this summer, ensuring that Brad Richards will return to the team for at least one more season.Read more… Follow Advertisement