The Yankees submitted their roster for the American League division series, and there were no major surprises on it. The Tigers also have submitted theirs. The Yankees are going with three starting pitchers for the series against the Detroit Tigers, which begins Friday night at Yankee Stadium, including C. C. Sabathia, Ivan Nova and Freddy Garcia. A. J. Burnett, who was successful in relief against one batter Wednesday, is on the roster as a reliever, as is Phil Hughes. The Yankees elected to go with only one left-handed reliever, Boone Logan, against the Tigers, who have dangerous right-handed hitters. If they had played the Texas Rangers in the first round, they most likely would have taken the lefty reliever Raul Valdes as well. If they make the second round and play Texas, Valdes could be added to the roster. Jorge Posada is on the roster as the designated hitter, and so is the rookie Jesus Montero. Catcher Austin Romine did not make it, but as with Valdes, he could be added if the Yankees play the Rangers, because Montero would be doing most of the DHing against Texas with all of their left-handed pitchers. The bench consists of Eric Chavez, Eduardo Nunez, Chris Dickerson and Andruw Jones. First pitch for Game 1 is 8:37 p.m. Here is the 25-man roster:  38 Luis Ayala RHP
34 A.J. Burnett RHP
36 Freddy Garcia RHP
65 Phil Hughes RHP
48 Boone Logan LHP
47 Ivan Nova RHP
42 Mariano Rivera RHP
30 David Robertson RHP
52 CC Sabathia LHP
29 Rafael Soriano RHP
53 Cory Wade RHP 55 Russell Martin C
63 Jesus Montero C
20 Jorge Posada DH
24 Robinson Cano INF
12 Eric Chavez INF
2 Derek Jeter INF
26 Eduardo Nunez INF
13 Alex Rodriguez INF
25 Mark Teixeira INF
27 Chris Dickerson OF
11 Brett Gardner OF
14 Curtis Granderson OF
18 Andruw Jones OF
33 Nick Swisher OF/1B The New York Times reporters Tyler Kepner, Ben Shpigel, Jack Curry and Joe Lapointe, along with their Times colleagues, will bring baseball fans inside the run up to the 2008 baseball season with access, analysis and the latest updates from spring training. Tyler Kepner has covered the Yankees for The New York Times since 2002.  He joined The Times in 2000 as the Mets beat writer. A native of Philadelphia and a graduate of Vanderbilt University, Kepner has also covered the Angels for the Riverside Press-Enterprise in California and the Mariners for the Seattle Post-Intelligencer. He lives in Connecticut with his wife and their four children. Ben Shpigel has covered the Mets for The Times since 2005. Before then, he was a staff writer for the Dallas Morning News for two years. He also worked at The News Journal in Wilmington, Del., and for the Atlanta Journal-Constitution.  Shpigel received a bachelor's degree in English and journalism from Emory University and a master's degree in journalism from Columbia University. He and his wife, Rebecca, live in Manhattan. Jack Curry has covered baseball for the The New
York Times for 18 seasons.  Since 1998, he has served as the newspaper's national baseball writer.  Before that, Curry covered the Yankees from 1991-1997.  He was also the beat writer for the New Jersey Nets' 1990-1991 season and covered college basketball, college football and wrote for the Metro section. Born in Jersey City, N.J., Curry graduated from Fordham University. He and his wife, Pamela, live in New Jersey. 
			This blog’s regular features, including live game analysis, news and notes from Tyler Kepner, David Waldstein and others, can now be found on the baseball section of our website.Read more… 
			The free-agent second baseman Robinson Cano is reportedly still seeking a 10-year deal for $310 million, figures the Yankees are said to be unwilling to meet. Read more… 
			When asked what he has done thus far in the off-season, Mets General Manager Sandy Alderson responded with a joke. Read more… 
			The Mets maybe should, but most assuredly won’t, defy all expectations and make a legitimate bid to lure Robinson Cano away from the Yankees.Read more… 
			The Yankees are waiting to hear whether Curtis Granderson will accept their qualifying offer, and set their outfield for 2014, or test the market and send the Yankees chasing another free agent. Read more… Follow Advertisement