Advertisement By JENNIFER FREY and  It was different, even with John Franco and Dwight Gooden, two of his old friends. Bob Ojeda expected that. It is different now with everyone -- the looks on their faces, the questions they ask, the way they respond to his presence. Today, Ojeda returned to Thomas J. White Stadium, his home for the final three springs of his five-season career with the Mets. It was the first exhibition game of the spring for the Yankees, a game televised back in New York, and it seemed to be a carbon copy of last season for these two ball clubs: the Mets looked shaky and went scoreless; the Yankees pounded three home runs and won, 8-0. But this game also was a coming-out of sorts for Ojeda, who had the best years of his career with the Mets. When Ojeda was introduced to the crowd this afternoon, it was not enough to say that he was a valuable member of the 1986 world champion Mets, now taking the mound for the first time as a Yankee. The announcer also called for a special welcome, a tribute to the man "whose courage and determination have been well-documented." The crowd responded with loud and sustained applause. "These are different circumstances on the outside," said Ojeda, who admitted to being nervous before his start. "But on the inside, for me, it's the same." Advertisement Ojeda no longer answers questions about that fateful day on Little Lake Nellie, the day last March when he became the lone survivor of a central Florida boating accident that claimed the lives of Tim Crews and Steve Olin, two of his teammates on the Cleveland Indians. He understands, though, that it was marked him forever -- and not only with the now-faint scar that runs from his eyebrow up and across his forehead, the scar left after surgeons reattached part of his scalp. It has changed the way people look at him, on and off the pitcher's mound. Advertisement "That's just the way it is," Ojeda said, shrugging. "That's the way it goes." It was easier, though, for Ojeda to make his first start of the spring at the Mets' spring training complex, where he still feels comfortable and where some faces are familiar ones. And it helped that things went so smoothly for Ojeda and his teammates, who had an easy time with the Mets. Anthony Young pleased Mets Manager Dallas Green with his first outing of the spring -- he gave up three hits and no runs in three innings -- and Green had only upbeat things to say after the game. But the Yankees outhit the Mets by 15-6, with Paul O'Neill, Randy Velarde and Jim Leyritz all cracking homers as the Bronx team made its spring debut. "We're seeing a lot of kids play," Green said of his 0-2 team, "and that's basically what camp is all about." Ojeda can remember what it was like when he was a kid trying to make a major league roster -- way back at the start of his 12-year career -- and it almost feels like that again this spring. For the first time in more than a decade, his spot on a major league roster is not a given. He was signed to a minor league contract by the Yankees over the winter, and he is competing for the fifth spot in the Yankees' starting rotation. Pleases Showalter  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. According to those who have watched him, Ojeda's stuff has looked good so far this spring training, and Buck Showalter, the Yankees' manager, was pleased with Ojeda's performance this afternoon. The left-hander gave up three hits, one walk and no runs in three innings of work, and he was awarded the victory. "He had command of the baseball," Showalter said. "He pitched the way he needs to pitch to make our decision tougher." It is not just Ojeda's arm, though, that draws Showalter's attention. He is also looking at his eyes. Showalter needs to know what he'll see there -- will he see the hunger, the fire, the desire? Or the emptiness that characterized Ojeda's look when he first returned to baseball last summer? "I've got to earn it back, I know that," Ojeda said. "I'm not out there trying to see if I've got it, because I know I've still got it. I still have the desire." Intensity Is Back Advertisement For some time he didn't. Franco remembers the way Ojeda looked in the hospital the day after the accident, his head covered in bandages, something lost in his eyes. Gooden remembers talking to him later in the season, when Ojeda wasn't sure he still wanted to play baseball. Ojeda did return to the Indians in early August, and was 2-1 with a 4.40 earned run average in nine appearances. But many people -- Gooden and Franco included -- weren't sure if he was going to make a serious comeback. "From just talking to him, I think he's got that intensity back," Franco said. "Last year, after the accident, I don't think he knew what he wanted. "It's great seeing him on the field," he continued. "I'll tell you, just seeing him in a uniform and alive is wonderful." INSIDE PITCH BUCK SHOWALTER was pleased by the performance of BOB WICKMAN, who pitched two innings after BOB OJEDA left the mound. Wickman won 14 games for the Yankees last season, but his role this season remains something of a question mark. To help his cause, Wickman played instructional league baseball during the off-season and is adding a changeup to his repertory. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 6, 1994, on Page 8008001 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; It's Yanks vs. Mets, and Ojeda Shows Fire.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »