Advertisement By JOE SEXTON and  In another season, the incident might have died without a remark. It might not have escalated to the heated moment it did in the clubhouse in Montreal on Sunday night. On another club, the issue of clubhouse politics might not be such a volatile one. But these are the Mets, the bad, jinxed and endlessly controversial club for whom everything goes wrong. Always. Thus, Jeff Kent, a player with undetermined ability and the scantiest of reputations, found himself at the center of the latest clubhouse storm. Kent, the second baseman acquired in the trade for David Cone last month, effectively squared off with the rest of the Mets Sunday night, refusing to submit to a clubhouse prank and wear the ridiculous outfit the players had substituted for his street clothes in his locker. Not Kent's Style Kent's stand -- the second baseman pitched the clothes onto the floor of the clubhouse before Sunday night's game against the Expos and then again challenged the Mets to produce his regular clothes after the 7-5 loss -- ultimately required the intervention of Manager Jeff Torborg. The manager, in an explosion filled with expletives, ordered an end to the scene. Advertisement "It wasn't an attempt to air out the club or to protect anyone," said Torborg. "I wanted to get the heck out of there." Advertisement It appeared today that it was going to be difficult for Kent to extricate himself from his isolated clubhouse position, and, in fact, the 24-year-old, who doesn't bother to disguise his temper or arrogance, appeared determined not to soften his stance. "I paid my rookie dues in Toronto," said Kent, who maintained that he had willingly gone along with similar stunts as a member of the Blue Jays. "I feel I have endured my embarrassments, my punishment." "I felt I was being taken advantage of," Kent added. "They wanted to go overboard. I stuck up for myself. I won't be pushed around." Kent was most emphatic in clarifying that, contrary to the way it might have appeared to the veterans on the club, he did not go to Torborg for help. And Torborg went out of his way to confirm Kent's claim, saying he had been informed of the problem by the club's traveling secretary.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "I'm not out to protect Jeff Kent," Torborg said. "He'll have to deal with it all himself." Kent, who struck out twice with the bases loaded during the Mets' 10-8 victory over the Cubs tonight, appears eager to have his hands full, and the specter of problems with umpires and in the clubhouse recalls the experience of Gregg Jefferies, who never found happiness in New York. Kent, barely 72 hours after pledging to reporters that he would be at his locker regardless of his personal fortunes in any game, evacuated the clubhouse in Cincinnati after his misplay of a ninth-inning grounder led to a defeat. "Not tonight," Kent told reporters as he raced to the team bus. Kent argued vehemently with Umpire Bruce Froemming in his first game with the Mets. And Sunday night after being called out on strikes by Jerry Crawford, Kent flung his helmet and bat near the umpire and complained all the way out to second base. He was quoted in a Toronto Globe and Mail article last weekend as saying New York was worse than he had imagined, and was reported to have taken verbal swipes at Toronto third baseman Kelly Gruber, the man he had filled in for in 1992. While standing by his claim that he had lost some respect for Gruber, Kent today again insisted "80 percent of the quotes were misprinted." Advertisement "He was not well liked in his own clubhouse," a former official with the Blue Jays said of Kent's experience with Toronto's Class AA club. "He's totally oblivious to what it takes to fit in with a team. And he had problems with the umpires within the first month of the season last year." Kent clearly has imperiled his position in the clubhouse. He was savagely ridiculed after Sunday night's episode by the club's veterans, who thought the rookie had deemed himself above standard hazing rituals and who resented the fact that the manager had been drawn into the scene. But Kent remained defiant. "I won't hold it against them," said Kent of his teammates. "What they do, I don't know. Maybe they'll know next time. I'm going to play the game the best I can, good reputation or bad. It was an incident. That's all." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 15, 1992, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Mets Pull a Little Prank, But Kent Pulls a Big Fit.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »