Advertisement By BILLY WITZJUNE 28, 2014
 The likelihood that LeBron James, Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh would stay with the Miami Heat for another run at an N.B.A. title with a retooled roster increased Saturday when Wade informed the team that he, like James earlier in the week, would opt out of his contract. Bosh was expected to make a similar decision by Monday’s deadline, which would allow the Heat to reach new deals with James, Wade and Bosh to create more room under the salary cap. That would provide the team president, Pat Riley, flexibility to infuse the roster with more youth, athleticism and scoring, qualities that were noticeably absent in Miami’s loss to San Antonio in the N.B.A. finals. In some ways, the Heat’s Big 3 are following the example of the Spurs, whose cornerstones — Tim Duncan, Manu Ginobili and Tony Parker — have taken below-market contracts in recent years, allowing management to augment the roster with role players who flourished around them. As they did four years ago, when James and Bosh joined Wade in Miami, they appear to be working in concert. Wade, Bosh and James met last week to discuss their plans after James opted out. Advertisement But for Wade and Bosh, it is no small sacrifice. Each was due about $42 million over the next two seasons, a figure they would be unlikely to receive on the open market. Wade and Bosh are expected to take significant cuts in salary, but the Heat could mitigate it by adding years to the deals.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The other high-profile free agent is Carmelo Anthony, but Riley recently said that landing him was “a pipe dream.” A more likely addition would be someone like the former Toronto guard Kyle Lowry, who would take some of the scoring and defending load from James. Advertisement The Heat’s defense slipped in the regular season and was then shredded by San Antonio. That could prompt them to also be in the market for a true center, at least as a backup, so they would have options beyond putting Bosh at center and going small, as they did against Duncan in the finals. As it stands, the only player under contract next season is the backup guard Norris Cole. Shane Battier is retiring, Ray Allen may do the same and Chris Andersen is a free agent. Udonis Haslem also opted out of his contract Saturday, meaning he, too, may be back at a discounted rate. The Heat moved up two spots in Thursday’s draft to select Shabazz Napier, the former Connecticut point guard whom James admires. A version of this article appears in print on June 29, 2014, on Page SP10 of the New York edition with the headline: Wade, Opting Out, Allows Heat to Add to Roster Flexibility.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »