Advertisement By ROBERT MCG. THOMAS JR. Game Time The first full weekend of the exhibition season hits its stride tonight with 10 games on the schedule, including the Redskins' visit to Giants Stadium to play the Jets. Sunday's lone game will also be at Giants Stadium, where the Giants will play the Bengals. In the finale Monday night, the Saints will play the Bears in Chicago. Seattle Seahawks If Seattle's president and coach, Tom Flores, hoped Thursday night's game against the Rams would help him decide between his two contending quarterbacks, the quarterbacks didn't give him much help. Both looked pretty bad in the 21-7 loss. Dan McGwire had the better of it in completion percentage, connecting on 7 of 12 attempts, and Kelly Stoufer completed 7 of 14 but outgained McGwire, 66 yards to 47, and had the team's only touchdown to boot, a 19-yarder to Tommy Kane. If that seemed to give Stouffer the edge, he also had the team's only fumble, a loss that set up a Rams touchdown. Los Angeles Rams If the Rams' new coach, Chuck Knox, had an especially big grin after the victory over his former team, it may have been because the game tended to verify his assertion that Jim Everett is the best quarterback he has coached in his 19 professional seasons. Playing only the first half, Everett completed 9 of 15 passes for 95 yards and 2 touchdowns, including a 25-yarder to Willie Anderson. By a couple of measures, Everett's backup, Mike Pagel, did even better. He hit 9 of 12 for 122 yards but no touchdowns. Advertisement And just to rub it in to the Seahawks, Jeff Chadwick, who was released by Seattle to Plan B during the offseason, was the game's leading receiver with 5 catches for 74 yards. Advertisement Cleveland Browns Contract negotiations between the Browns and wide receiver Webster Slaughter have reached the "pay-me-or-trade-me" stage. According to his agent, Bill Duffy, Slaughter, who made $550,000 last year, thinks he's worth at least $1 million, and if the Browns don't see it that way he wants to be traded to a team that will recognize his value and use him accordingly. "He feels he's one of the marquee receivers in the league, but he'll never get his skills showcased in Cleveland," Duffy said. "The system there is not conducive to getting the ball down field." The Cleveland owner, Art Modell, said the Browns, who play the Falcons in Cleveland tonight, were not interested in trading Slaughter, which is hardly surprising: The 10 receivers the team has in camp have a total of seven touchdown catches among them, while Slaughter has 27. Minnesota Vikings Contract negotiations between the Vikings and their projected starting quarterback, Rich Gannon, seem to have reached the "take-it-or-take-a-hike" stage. According to The Star Tribune of Minneapolis, the Vikings have told Gannon that their offer of a two-year deal worth $2.6 million plus incentives is final and that if he doesn't accept it soon they will find another quarterback, leaving Gannon, who has reportedly been seeking $1.6 million a year, out in the cold. Coach Dennis Green would not comment on the newspaper's report but underscored the reported threat by saying he thought backup quarterback Sean Salisbury had the potential to take over the starting position. Whether that's true or not should be more apparent after tonight's home game against the Bills. Salisbury is scheduled to start.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Atlanta Falcons Center Jamie Dukes said he had come to terms with the Falcons on a four-year deal that will average about $800,000 a year with a chance to hit the $1 million mark if he's an All-Pro selection. "It's a fair contract, and that's what I was looking for," said Dukes, who started the last 48 games but is not expected to play in tonight's game in Cleveland. Advertisement Kansas City Chiefs He's not very big. He's not very fast, and he was only a seventh-round draft choice, but if Coach Marty Schottenheimer knows his linebackers, Erick Anderson will soon be living up to a venerable Chiefs tradition. If he makes the team, Anderson, who played at Michigan, will be the third winner of the Butkus Award to play for the Chiefs since 1989, when Derrick Thomas, the 1988 award winner, joined the team. Percy Snow, the 1989 winner, also is with the Chiefs. Anderson, who won the 1991 Butkus Award as the top linebacker in college football, might not look the part, but Schottenheimer has been impressed. "He's one of the guys who defy the numbers," the coach said. "He's a very, very instinctive player. There are just some players that because of their natural instincts and abilities are able to make the plays. He is a football player." Enough of one, anyway, that Anderson was named to start tonight's game against the Packers. Washington Redskins Erick Anderson might not be the only prominent rookie from Michigan starting an exhibition game tonight. With center Jeff Bostick a probable no-show because of a swollen knee, Matt Elliott is in line for the job. And while the Redskins would presumably much rather have Elliott's unsigned Michigan teammate, Desmond Howard, the winner of the 1991 Heisman Trophy and the No. 4 National Football League draft choice, in the lineup, Elliott is also an award winner, thank you, and a draftee of special distinction. Elliott was, in fact, the winner of the 1992 "Lowsman Trophy," an annual spoof on the Heisman presented by a California club each year to the last man selected in the draft. Elliott qualified for the honor when he was picked by the Redskins at the very end of the very last (12th) round, making him the 336th of 336 players selected. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 8, 1992, on Page 1001028 of the National edition with the headline: NFL TRAINING CAMP REPORT.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »