Advertisement  N.H.L.  Flyers Beat Back Panthers  Eric Lindros had a goal and two assists last night at the Spectrum, helping the Philadelphia Flyers to a 4-3 victory over the Florida Panthers. Philadelphia got its second victory in its last six games (2-2-2) and moved to within 2 points of the Panthers for the eighth and final Eastern Conference playoff spot. Florida's six-game unbeaten streak ended (3-0-3). (AP) N.B.A.  Lakers Await Magic  The Lakers didn't have Magic Johnson, but the Rockets had Hakeem Olajuwon. Olajuwon scored 15 of his 37 points in the fourth quarter as the Rockets beat Los Angeles, 113-107, last night in Houston in the Lakers' final game before Johnson becomes their coach. "We were playing one of the best teams with one of the best players having one of his best games," the Lakers' interim coach, Bill Bertka, said. "Hakeem is so difficult to contain the entire game. The shots he hit you would have to call phenomenal except he has such a great touch, they're just normal for him." Bertka ended a two-game stretch as interim coach since Randy Pfund was relieved of the post. Johnson will take over Sunday when the Lakers play Milwaukee at Inglewood, Calif. (AP) SuperSonics 116, Suns 106: Detlef Schrempf scored 5 of his season-high 27 points in the final 2 minutes 30 seconds as Seattle survived a late Phoenix rally. Schrempf made 13 of 16 shots from the field, including 9 straight at one point. Charles Barkley led the Suns with 25 points and 10 rebounds. (AP) N.I.T.  Siena Has a Date in Garden  In Glens Falls, N.Y., last night, Doremus Bennerman scored 34 points -- the third straight game in which he has broken 30 -- to lead Siena to a 75-62 victory over Bradley in the quarterfinals of the National Invitation Tournament. Siena (24-7) will make its first trip to the N.I.T. Final Four at Madison Square Garden on Monday night to play Villanova. Bradley (23-8), which had all its losses come on the road, shot only 39.7 percent, including 4 of 19 from 3-point range. Bennerman had 17 points from the foul line. He scored 33 points in both the Saints' 76-68 first-round victory over Georgia Tech and in their 89-79 second-round victory over Tulane. (AP) SKIING  More Moe, More Medals  Tommy Moe of Palmer, Alaska, spurred by a lackluster performance a day earlier, won the men's super-giant slalom by an Olympian margin yesterday at the United States Alpine championships in Winter Park, Colo. Shannon Nobis of Park City, Utah, won the women's Super-G. Moe, who won a gold medal in the downhill and silver medal in the Super-G at the Olympics last month in Lillehammer, Norway, made up for a disappointing ninth-place finish in the downhill Wednesday. Moe was timed in 1 minute 5.74 seconds -- more than a second faster than runner-up Roman Torn of Canada, who was timed in 1:06.88. A J Kitt of Rochester was third in 1:06.90. In the women's Super-G, Nobis and Picabo Street swapped positions from Wednesday. Nobis, who was runner-up to Street in the downhill Wednesday, edged Street by two one-hundredths of a second in the Super-G. (AP) GOLF  Lopez Shares L.P.G.A. Lead  Nancy Lopez, her game sharp despite a reduced schedule, shot a four-under-par 68 yesterday to share the first-round lead in the Dinah Shore tournament in Rancho Mirage, Calif., the Ladies Professional Golf Association's first major of the year. Lopez, who won the event in 1981 before it was made a major, was tied with Alice Miller and Lisa Walters. (AP) We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 25, 1994, on Page B00012 of the National edition with the headline: RESULTS PLUS.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »