Advertisement By MICHAEL MARTINEZ Everybody wants Kirby Puckett. He has been in such demand this season, his only respite from the daily gauntlet of television cameras, tape recorders and notebooks that hound him is the early evenings of summer, when he trundles out to center field, glove in hand, for the Minnesota Twins. It is a brief escape. Everybody wants him. As Puckett turns the corner toward Tuesday night's All-Star Game at San Diego, where he will undoubtedly start for the American League, he is another day closer to free agency and riches beyond reason. Bidders are preparing to stand in line, even though Puckett's future salary is expected to rocket into an orbit known only to Bobby Bonilla and Ryne Sandberg. Twins and Fans Want Him The Twins want him. More than that, they cannot afford to lose him. To do so would risk the wrath of a Minneapolis-St. Paul following that has deified the 31-year-old Puckett for most of the eight seasons he has played there. Puckett is so beloved in Minnesota, he is now as much a part of the landscape as the 10,000 lakes -- except that there is only one Puckett. Advertisement Kent Hrbek, born and reared in Minneapolis and currently the Twins' first baseman, was asked the other day how fans might react if Puckett was somehow lost to another team this winter. Hrbek paused, looked into the afternoon sunlight and said, "They wouldn't like it." Advertisement Enough said. But who will get him? After almost two months of talks, Puckett and his agent, Ron Shapiro, cut off negotiations with the Twins in late May after the team rejected a deal that Puckett was prepared to sign: $27.5 million, plus incentives, for five years, far below what Puckett could have earned elsewhere. They will hold their next meeting in October. League Leader in Batting "I don't want to worry about it while I'm playing," Puckett said. He hasn't. As the All-Star break approaches, Puckett leads the league in batting at .345 and is comfortably on a pace to end the season with more than 200 hits, 100 runs scored and 100 runs batted in. He did it once before, in 1988, when his .356 average was the highest for an American League right-handed batter since Joe DiMaggio hit .357 in 1941. Given that Puckett is in the final season of a three-year, $9 million contract, making him only the Twins' third highest-paid player behind pitcher John Smiley and Hrbek, he is surely due a nifty raise. But unlike the Oakland A's Rickey Henderson, a $3-million-player who complains incessantly about being underpaid, Puckett hasn't uttered a word of bitterness. No Complaints "I've never complained or cried," Puckett said. "All I want to do is play. Contract talks take away from the fun." And this is fun. He is playing the game, some say, like never before. He batted .374 in May and was named the league's player of the month. He hasn't gone more than two consecutive games without a hit so far, and though he went 0 for 4 against the Yankees last night, he has gone more than one game without a hit only three times. He has 14 home runs and has a chance to surpass his career best of 31 in 1986. "This is the most fun I've ever seen him have," said Tom Kelly, the Twins' manager. "Maybe it's the fact he's a veteran, he knows the ins and outs and he's won two championships. He's just sitting back and enjoying this. He knows he can't lose." Advertisement The Twins know it, too, which is why they must feel a particular queasiness about this whole thing. Their financial resources are not great, but the pressure to sign Puckett is. Then again, pitcher Frank Viola was once a Minnesota icon, but he is in Boston now, after being traded to the Mets. And Harmon Killebrew, arguably the greatest Twin of them all, spent the twilight of his career in Kansas City. Puckett wants to stay. The Twins want to keep him. So what is the problem? Money, of course. Andy MacPhail, the Twins' general manager, says his team's payroll of $30 million ranks 20th among 26 teams. To pay Puckett the $6 million a season over five years that he could demand would amount to a fifth of what they are doling out now. It is a difficult decision for a small-market team. 'He Wants to Stay'  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "He's made it no secret that he wants to stay," MacPhail said. "Both Ron and Kirby understand that we don't have the financial wherewithal, and they're willing to take that into consideration. At the same time, we can't penalize someone just for being a good guy." Whether Puckett will be a good guy at the end of the season, knowing that the club has already turned down a deal he accepted, is a whole new concern to the Twins. "My style isn't to raise axes or beat drums, and neither is Kirby's," Shapiro said. "It does say, let's take a fresh look at the situation when we get to October. But it doesn't mean we'll have a hard-line look." MacPhail has other worries. Smiley, Greg Gagne and Chili Davis can also become free agents when the season ends, and the expansion draft looms. What is a general manager to do? "The impact of losing someone like Kirby can be significant," MacPhail conceded. "It would have an impact competitively and fanwise. We let others go and didn't bat an eye. This one would be tougher." It is because Puckett, who is from Chicago, has become a large part of the Minnesota fabric. He is the Twins' nominee this year for the Roberto Clemente Award, baseball's community-service award. He is host to an annual billiards tournament to benefit the Children's Heart Fund, has worked with the state's anti-drug program and purchases tickets to Twins games for underprivileged children. "He's a great player," teammate Randy Bush said, "but he's an even better person." He seems to be embraced everywhere. Banners have sprouted in stadiums throughout the league, including Oakland, imploring the Twins' owner, Carl Pohlad, to simply pay up, no matter what it takes. Puckett doesn't know where his popularity comes from, but he believes it has to do with his work ethic. 'Throwback to the Old Days' Advertisement "I consider myself a throwback to the old days," he said. "There's nothing flashy about me. I put my clothes on, come to work, put in my hours, and hopefully, we win." With two World Series victories in five seasons and a first-place team now, Puckett is in the right place. But at the suggestion that he is soaring on the field because a contract is on the line, he bristles slightly. "Some people say I'm playing for the salary, and that's just not true," he insisted. "Anybody who knows me knows that I play hard all the time. I wish there was a way I could turn it on and turn it off because, believe me, I'd never turn it off. I'd just see how good I could really be. I play the game too hard for people to put that tag on me." But here is a tag that surely applies: Puckett and the Twins, they belong together. "To be able to play in one city my whole career would be great," he said. "It doesn't happen anymore. If it was up to me, I'd stay here. The people are great, the guys I play with are great. "But it's not up to me. It's not my decision." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 8, 1992, on Page B00007 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Puckett Is in Big Demand.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »