Advertisement By PHIL BERGER and  Riddick Bowe is next for Evander Holyfield, the undisputed heavyweight champion. Bowe advanced to a title fight last night the hard way: He earned it. Bowe pounded a game Pierre Coetzer of South Africa from the opening bell. Referee Mills Lane finally took mercy on Coetzer and stopped the bout with one second remaining in the seventh round of a scheduled 12-round World Boxing Association heavyweight elimination bout. The winner of the Bowe-Coetzer bout, held at the Thomas and Mack Center, had been promised a Nov. 13 shot against Holyfield in the same ring here. In the night's other headline attraction, Pernell Whitaker, the former undisputed lightweight champion, had no troubling stepping up in class. Whitaker gave Rafael Pineda a boxing lesson in winning a lopsided 12-round decision for the International Boxing Federation junior welterweight title. A Low Blow? Advertisement The end to the heavyweight fight came when Bowe hit Coetzer with what appeared to be a right-handed low blow. As Coetzer turned away, anticipating that Lane would deliver a warning to Bowe, Coetzer left his hands down and absorbed a a jolting right uppercut. Advertisement When Bowe followed with a a left and right that drove Coetzer into the ropes, Lane steppped in and waved an end to the match. Both of Coetzer's eyes had been reduced to purplish, bloody slits. Coetzer's anticipation of Lane's warning probably was predicated on the referee's action one round earlier, in the sixth. At that time, Lane deducted a point from Bowe's score for a low blow. After the fight, Lane said that he saw the low blow in the final round but that in his opinion the punch was not what got Coetzer in trouble. Coetzer disagreed. All Scorecards for Bowe "It definitely shouldn't have been stopped," said Coetzer. "It was a low blow." Bowe was ahead on the scorecards of all three judges when the fight was stopped. With his victory, Bowe is undefeated in 31 fights, 27 of which he has won by knockout. Coetzer dropped to 39-3 with 27 knockouts. "He was extremely strong," said Bowe, "but he wasn't as crafty as some of the other guys I've fought. I still don't believe Holyfield can take a punch as good as Coetzer."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Bowe came alive late in the first round, landing a left hook and then a series of four right hands. Coetzer countered with a stiff left hook but was jolted by a right uppercut of Bowe's. Bowe landed a jolting right to the side of Coetzer's head in the second round, the sort of punch that had disposed of some previous opponents. But Coetzer, showing he could take punishment, fired back at Bowe immediately. Coetzer was cut on the right side of his nose during the round. Face Bruised in Round 3 Advertisement The fighters traded heavy blows in the third round, and Coetzer got the worst of it, returning to his corner with the right side of his face bruised. Working at close quarters, Bowe administered a beating to Coetzer in the fourth. He scored with both hands and cut Coetzer beneath his right eye. But Coetzer kept pressing forward, landing punches of his own. With the back side of his trunks torn, exposing his left buttock, Bowe continued to punish Coetzer in the fifth round. The South African was bruised beneath both eyes by the end of the round, and Lane asked the ringside physician to check him out between rounds. In the sixth, Bowe hit Coetzer with the first low blow and, as Lane moved in to warn him, Bowe knocked Coetzer down with a right. Lane, however, ruled it no knockdown and assessed the one-point penalty against Bowe. Before the fight, two other heavyweight contenders, Lennox Lewis and Razor Ruddock, signed to fight each other Oct. 31. Holyfield's promoter, Dan Duva, announced that should Holyfield defeat Bowe in November, he then would fight the winner of the Lewis-Ruddock bout. As for the junior welterweight fight, the three judges -- Frank Cairo (117-108 ), Jerry Roth (117-108) and Hector Hernandez (116-110) -- all had it for Whitaker. Pineda, who came into the fight with a repuation as a big puncher, never could dent Whitaker, who sidestepped, ducked and parried Pineda's vaunted right hand. Whitaker is now 30-1 with 14 knockouts. Pineda is 28-2 with 26 knockouts. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 19, 1992, on Page 8008004 of the National edition with the headline: BOXING; Bowe Stops Coetzer In 7th.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »