Advertisement By JOE LAPOINTE The Rangers-Devils series began with a big bang last night, and the visitors from New Jersey concluded a grueling, gripping game by upsetting the favored home team. They did it when Stephane Richer scored on a spectacular rush, in double overtime, giving them a 4-3 victory at Madison Square Garden. He scored shortly after midnight, at 15 minutes and 23 seconds of the second sudden-death extra period, by seizing an opportunity that began with Ranger defenseman Jeff Beukeboom trapped deep in the Devils end of the ice. Richer carried the puck down the left side, over center ice, over the blue line and down into the Ranger zone. Defending against him was Adam Graves, a forward trying to cover an unfamiliar position. "When I realized it was Richer," Graves said, "I just tried to pull him down." That would have been a good move. The referee, Bill McCreary, was ignoring violations much more serious throughout the extra sessions. But you can't pull down what you can't catch. Advertisement Richer whirled around Graves, bore down on goaltender Mike Richter and beat him with a short shot that skipped off Richter's stick and into the net. Advertisement "If I had told you before the game that we would win in overtime you would say, 'Come on,' " Richer said. "But we believe we can beat anybody." That belief grew stronger, he said, despite a defeat in the fourth overtime in a second-round game in Buffalo. "We did learn a little bit against Buffalo," Richer said, "and we feel comfortable on the road." The victory gave the Devils a 1-0 lead in the four-of-seven-game Eastern Conference finals. The winner moves on to play either Toronto or Vancouver in the Stanley Cup finals. Although Ranger coach Mike Keenan had harsh words for his players' effort afterward, the game was well-played by both sides, with a sweet tension that hushed the often boisterous crowd of 18,200. Three times, the Rangers took one-goal leads, on scores by Sergi Zubov, Sergei Nemchnov and Steve Larmer, one in each period. Larmer's came on the power play.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Three times, the Devils tied it, on goals by John MacLean, Bill Guerin and Claude Lemieux. The one by Lemieux came on a multiplayer scramble in front of Richter after New Jersey Coach Jacques Lemaire had pulled goaltender Martin Brodeur for an extra attacker. It was the fourth overtime game of the spring for the Devils, who are now 2-2 when going beyond regulation. It was the first overtime game for the Rangers, who are now 8-2 in 10 post-season games. Game 2 will be Tuesday night, also at the Garden. The overtime was the best part of the evening, with weary players on both sides taking chances and coming close. The Devils had 20 shots on goal in the extra session and the Devils had 12. Aleksei Kovalev of the Rangers hit a goal post. Valeri Zelepukin of the Devils, in alone on a breakway, fired wide. When it was over, Keenan verbally lashed his players for playing "very loose defensively." Advertisement "We weren't as crisp, we weren't as hunger, we weren't as sharp," he said. Lemieux's goal, the one that sent the game into overtime, came with Sergei Zubov trying to pull him down and Brian Leetch manning the other defensive position. These two are generally considered to be attacking defensemen who are strongest on the other end of the ice. When asked about the pairing, Keenan said that Beukeboom had ended his shift too early, but that the problem with the play was a poor clearing pass by the forward line. Lemieux said afterward that the Rangers "are the best team on paper." "Sometimes, the best team wins," he said. "Sometimes, the best team doesn't win. That's why the playoffs are exciting. The rivalry is huge. It's going to get bigger and bigger. It's going to get more physical. It's just great hockey." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 16, 1994, on Page C00001 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; Double Overtime Winds Up Devils' Time.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »