Advertisement By ALEX YANNIS After more than a year of trying, the Devils finally traded Sean Burke, their disgruntled goaltender, but they also had to part ways with Eric Weinrich, a talented and reliable defenseman, to get what they wanted in return. Burke and Weinrich were sent to the Hartford Whalers yesterday for Bobby Holik, a 21-year-old Czechoslovak forward whose potential was never fully explored in his two years with the Whalers. The Devils also received two draft choices in the deal. "I never said, 'This is where I'd like to go,' or 'This is where I don't want to go,' said Burke, who signed a multiyear contract with Hartford. "I just felt I wanted to go somewhere where it was going to be a fresh start. I kind of came to the conclusion that I wasn't going to be the guy there who was going to play the big games no matter how well I played. For that reason, and pretty much that reason alone, I wanted to move on." Refusing to Play The 25-year-old Burke came to the Devils after the Winter Olympics in 1988 and led them to their first playoff berth. But he lost his starting job to Chris Terreri near the end of the 1990-91 season, began expressing unhappiness at that point, then refused to play all of last season. Instead, he starred on Canada's Olympic hockey team, which won the silver medal in February. Advertisement While few National Hockey League teams had shown much interest in dealing for Burke, Weinrich was sought after around the league because of his tremendous offensive skills. Advertisement Lou Lamoriello, the president and general manager of the Devils, defended his decision to part with Weinrich by saying that the Devils wanted to make room for Scott Niedermayer, an 18-year-old phenom whose offensive attributes as a defenseman are considered by many to be in the class of Paul Coffey or Brian Leetch. In addition, the emergence of Myles O'Connor and the decision to re-sign defenseman Tommy Albelin apparently encouraged Lamoriello to part with the 25-year-old Weinrich, who had 32 points in 76 games last season. Weinrich was attending a seminar in Pennsylvania yesterday and could not be reached. Lamoriello said he had spoken with Weinrich after the trade and that the player was not totally surprised. Defensemen Were Aware "All our defensemen knew that someone had to go with someone coming in," Lamoriello said, referring to the team's decision to keep Niedermayer for next season, rather than sending him back to his junior team as the Devils did last season after making him their top draft pick. The two draft choices the Devils got are Hartford's second pick in the 1993 draft and a conditional pick in the 1994 draft. The Whalers have been finishing low in the standings in recent years and the Devils may thus end up with good selections.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Lamoriello had been under severe pressure to make a deal for Burke before the waiver draft the first week in October. The Devils planned to leave Burke unprotected in the waiver draft, which means they would get virtually nothing in return for his loss. Lamoriello was on the verge of making a deal for Burke last spring after he spurned the Devils and played for Canada in the Winter Olympics. But Burke thwarted those efforts by signing with the minor league San Diego Gulls just before the trade deadline on March 15, a contract from which Burke said he had obtained a release. "We didn't want to make a deal unless it was going to help us," Lamoriello said. "We felt this trade will help us not only immediately, but in the future. We're delighted with Bobby. He can play center ice if we need him and he has tremendous skill." Advertisement Holik said he was excited about the trade because he would be playing in what he called the best division in hockey. The Patrick Division produced the Stanley Cup winner the last two years and is considered the strongest in the league. "It will be a big challenge," Holik said. "I didn't show everything in me in Hartford. I had a new coach every year. I was on a checking line a lot and never played the power play." Holik, who is 6 feet 3 inches and weighs 220 pounds, had 21 goals and 24 assists in 76 games last season after 21 goals and 22 assists in 78 games in his rookie season two years ago, when the Whalers made him their first choice in the draft. The Whalers had 18 goals in their seven playoff games last season. All Holik had to show for in the seven games he played was a single assist. "I don't want to use any excuses," Holik said, "but I was never on the power play and they used me on the checking line in the playoffs. I want to come in and work as hard as I can, show Herb Brooks that I deserve to get a place on the team." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 29, 1992, on Page 1001027 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; Devils Trade Burke, but Weinrich Goes, Too.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »