Following a script eerily similar to that of the U.S. Open semifinal the two played last year, Novak Djokovic saved two set points to defeat Roger Federer, 6-7(7), 4-6, 6-3, 6-2, 7-5, booking a spot in his second consecutive Open final. The fifth set had been of brilliant quality until the eighth game, when Federer broke Djokovic to take a 5-3 advantage. With two match points on his racquet, Federer seemed to fold when Djokovic ripped a forehand return winner cross-court to save the first. Djokovic would go on to break and win the next three games as well to close out the comeback victory. The loss was Federer’s second consecutive defeat at a Slam in which he won the first two sets. Before his loss to Jo-Wilfried Tsonga at Wimbledon in July, Federer had a career record of 178-0 when winning the first two sets in a Grand Slam match. That record is now 182-2.  Djokovic called the effort one of the biggest wins of his career in his on-court interview. He will face the winner of the second semifinal between Rafael Nadal and Andy Murray in the final. 



05:11 PM Novak Djokovic Completes Improbable Comeback Victory
 After trailing 3-5 in the final set and facing two match points, Novak Djokovic shifted into another level altogether, reeling off four straight games to shatter Roger Federer and storm into his second consecutive U.S. Open final. After Federer’s backhand stab return attempt sailed long on Djokovic’s first match point, Djokovic raised his arms, calmly walked toward the net, and shook a despondent Federer’s hand. He then walked toward his box and let out a primal scream, and ended his time on court by obliging the interviewer Mary Joe Fernandez’s request for a victory dance. Djokovic understandably expressed his desire for the Murray-Nadal match to go as long as his had, though the rescheduled  Monday final will give him more recovery time than he would have had originally. — JIM LUTTRELL Just as he did in their 2010 U.S. Open semifinal, Djokovic has turned the tables on Federer, staring down two match points to give himself a 6-5 lead in the fifth set. The wheels seem to have completely come off for Federer since Djokovic saved the first match point with a return winner, losing his confidence on serve and no longer going for broke with his forehand. Djokovic to serve for an improbable win and a second consecutive U.S. Open final. After praising both men for refusing to blink in this fifth set, it looked as though Roger Federer and Novak Djokovic began using their eyelids to transmit Morse Code.  Djokovic got himself broken at love to give Federer a chance to serve for the match at 5-3, the crowd roaring its approval even after a Djokovic double fault.  Federer gained a 40-15 advantage and double match point on his serve, but watched as Djokovic slapped a return winner past Federer to save the first, and saw his own forehand hit the tape and fall back onto his own side to lose the second.  A double fault of his own some points later gave Djokovic the crucial break and got the final set back on serve.  Djokovic also saved two match points in his win over Federer in last year’s semifinal. — JIM LUTTRELL One would hope that the ball kids have some eye drops handy for the players during the changeover, because neither Federer nor Djokovic has blinked in some time. Firing spectacular serves and following them up with slam dunk forehands, the ease with which both are winning points might be considered boring if it weren’t so scintillating and exquisite.  A fifth-set tiebreak would seem inevitable, but it did in the 2010 semifinal between the two ended at 7-5. This one could still have a few wrinkles left. — JIM LUTTRELL Their intensity and quality soaring ever higher, Federer and Djokovic remain toe-to-toe through five games in the fifth set, exchanging first-strike blasts that would seem to dispel previous claims that the court was playing slow this year. Both are winning points quickly and ruthlessly with one-two combinations that leave the other without even the slightest hope of defending. The tennis between these two multiple Grand Slam champions in the fifth set has been exponentially better in the fifth set than it was in the rest of the match. Considering how good the first four sets were, that should let you know just how spectacular this decider has been.  Will it be possible for this red-lining tennis to continue until the end? One can only hope. — JIM LUTTRELL Knowing how crippling losing serve early  again would be, Federer appeared 100% dialed in at the start of the fifth set, shouting “come on!” after only the second point. With wife Mirka fist pumping from the front in an uncharacteristic show of emotion, Federer hung on in his first two service games of the final set, keeping his nose ahead and stopping the momentum Djokovic had been running with in the third and fourth sets. Though mostly psychological, the advantage Federer will have from serving first could make a difference in this deciding frame, with so little else separating the two now. — JIM LUTTRELL As it did last year, the 2011 U.S. Open Semifinal between  Djokovic and Federer is going five. Watching him dominate the fourth set, it’s unclear how  Djokovic was able to lose the first two.  He  has won 97 percent of points on his first serve in the last two sets, and is reading Federer’s serve easily.   Djokovic has been teeing off on his return and ground strokes with staggering effectiveness, slapping forehand and backhand winners that have blistered past Federer before he had any chance to reply.  A fifth set loss would be devastating for Federer, having previously blown a two-set lead at Wimbledon (to Tsonga) and having also lost to Djokovic in five sets at last year’s U.S. Open. Nerves (or lack thereof) will be key early in the decider. — JIM LUTTRELL Already putting the five-time champion in his rear view mirror earlier in the set, Djokovic seems to have slammed on the accelerator as the fourth set wears on.  Not taking a single point off, Djokovic has run through Federer like a knife through creamy Swiss butter in recent games, gaining a second break in the fourth set to take a commanding 4-1 lead. The fifth set seems unavoidable at this point, as does a Djokovic victory if Federer is unable to find a higher gear. — JIM LUTTRELL After coasting through the end of the third set, Djokovic again asserted himself at the beginning of the fourth set, breaking Federer’s serve to jump out to an early advantage again.  Djokovic’s wheels seem to be spinning at full speed now, forcing a Federer error at net with an incredible skidding backhand from outside the doubles alley.  By moving better himself, Djokovic is forcing Federer to move as well, and seems to be dictating completely now.  Federer will need to change something on his return game if he is to have a shot in this set. — JIM LUTTRELL Djokovic might be one-third of the way into an improbable comeback. Or he may just be delaying the inevitable.  Federer held again for 5-3, forcing Djokovic to serve out the set. Djokovic did so 6 points later, though not without difficulty. Federer has remained the aggressor throughout the match, dictating play with his forehand and gaining the upper hand in most rallies.   But Djokovic’s superior speed and counter-punching has turned the tables several times within points, most recently on set point, in which he outlasted a flurry of Federer attacks, eventually drawing an error, an error he celebrated with his fist raised above his head.  Federer will serve to open the fourth set. — JIM LUTTRELL Novak Djokovic seems to have finally sunk his teeth into this match. Though the games in the third set have been quick since his marathon break in the second game, Djokovic continues to audibly scrap, pumping his fist and primal-screaming at himself, exhorting himself on as he holds on to his decisive lead in this set. The third seems all but in the books for Djokovic, setting up a hugely important fourth set. The player who starts best in that frame will more than likely win the match. — JIM LUTTRELL On his third break point of the game, Djokovic took his first real lead of the match, toughing out a 16-point game to rush out to a 2-0 lead in the third set. Djokovic’s movement, which had been uncertain and hesitant against Federer early in the match, has finally seemed to win him points early in the third, his anticipation putting him in positions to hit winners where he hadn’t been able to previously.  Djokovic was able to consolidate the break as he hadn’t been able to before, and raced out to a 3-0 lead in the third frame.  How hard Federer is willing to fight for this set remains to be seen, though he should be reticent to give Djokovic any momentum considering the tennis he has been capable of this year. — JIM LUTTRELL Djokovic came out from the changeover at 5-4 wearing a white cap, but it did little to deflect the barrage that Federer sent across the net. Federer continued to hit corners with his serve, forcing errors on Djokovic’s return and serving out the second set at 6-4. The crowd at Ashe, which seems full to the brim for the first time in the tournament, has been decidedly behind Federer throughout, a factor that  can’t help Djokovic’s morale as he looks to dig back into the match. If Djokovic wants to be optimistic, he can remember that Federer lost a two-set lead in his previous Grand Slam at Wimbledon, dropping the final three sets to a resurgent Jo-Wilfried Tsonga. — JIM LUTTRELL Federer held with ease again, expanding his lead to 5-3, his mix of powerful forehands and varied backhands leaving Djokovic wobbly and guessing. Djokovic seemed increasingly rattled in his service game. Though he held for 5-4, Djokovic was again bothered by noise made by the crowd, and looked angrily at his box and the chair umpire after double faulting. Federer to serve for a two-set lead. — JIM LUTTRELL Djokovic earned his first break point of the match on a series of ground stroke errors from Federer, and converted immediately for his first break of the match, leveling the set at 3-3. But though the break could have signaled a major momentum shift, Djokovic was unable to hang onto his edge for even another point. Federer broke Djokovic’s serve to love the very next game, his resolve looking as smooth as his hair as he regained the edge and a 4-3 lead. Because of how quickly he was broken back, the exchange of breaks could be worse for Djokovic’s morale than if he had never broken at all. — JIM LUTTRELL Federer began to expand his edge over Djokovic in the fourth game of the second set, dictating play with accurate serving and relentless forehands to take a 3-1 lead. As he was about to begin serving down 1-3, Djokovic noticed a disturbance in the upper deck of the stadium, as fans in that area were whistling and making noise to signal that someone seated in that area needed medical assistance. The chair umpire Enric Molina halted the match, and help was sent for the spectator. Djokovic seemed fresher once play began, and held with relative ease to pull back within 3-2. — JIM LUTTRELL After two routine holds to begin the set, Roger Federer secured the first break points of the match with Novak Djokovic serving at 1-1, 15-40. Djokovic served the first with a strong serve out wide, and escaped the second as a Federer backhand sailed just long.  But Federer earned an advantage and a third break point soon thereafter, winning it and moving a break ahead for the first time in the match. Djokovic grew increasingly frustrated and exasperated as the game wore on, a trend that seems likely to continue if Federer continues to expand on his lead. — JIM LUTTRELL After a set without a break point, the early part of the first set tiebreak was decidedly break-ful. Federer secured the first mini-break off a backhand error for a 2-0 lead, but gave it back 2 points later with a backhand error of his own to level the breaker at 2-2.  But Federer forced a backhand error from Djokovic to regain the advantage at 4-2, and a Djokovic double fault gave Federer a comfortable 5-2 lead and a second minibreak, leaving the Serb staring into the sun for answers.  His consultation with the sun appeared not to have been entirely useless. Helped by a reciprocated double fault from Federer, Djokovic reeled off 3 of the next 4 points, saving two set points on his own serve. Federer had a third set point on his own serve, but Djokovic with a deep return, taking advantage of a weak second serve and jamming Federer on his backhand side, putting away a winner a shot later. Djokovic saved a fourth set point for 7-7 with a wicked cross-court forehand that forced an error from Federer, but Federer earned a fifth set point (and second on his serve) by hitting behind Djokovic early in a rally, leaving the elastic Serb flailing.  Again Federer had to hit a second serve on set point, but a kicker out wide produced a backhand reply from Djokovic that Federer was able to blast into the open court to seal the set. The winner of the first set has won 20 of the previous 23 matches between the two. — JIM LUTTRELL Still not a break point for either man as Novak Djokovic and Roger Federer march into a tiebreak. Our first question, from kvon in New York: “Could someone possibly clarify for me why the no. 1 seed is playing the no. 3 seed. Should not the no. 2 seed be playing the no. 3 seed?” Though it doesn’t seem to make sense, that’s the way it often winds up working in tennis draws. To prevent the same players from playing one another in tournament after tournament, the third and fourth seeds are drawn out of a hat to see which half of the draw they land in, as are all the other top seeds. Other lopsided match-ups can happen in other rounds, such as No. 1 vs. No. 5 in one quarterfinal and No. 4 vs. No. 8 in another. If you have any questions about anything in the match or the tournament in general, send them along as well and I’ll be happy to answer them. — JIM LUTTRELL Federer ripped a backhand up the line for what looked like a winner on Djokovic’s game point, but a late call ruled it out, and Federer did not challenge.  On his own service game, Federer continued to be the player forcing the issue off the ground, dictating play with both strong, flat forehands and the occasional ill-advised drop shot. Djokovic has been the safer, higher-percentage player of the two thus far. — JIM LUTTRELL After Djokovic easily held, two challenges went Roger Federer’s way in the seventh game of the match. Djokovic incorrectly challenged an out call on a shot of his that sailed wide, and Federer correctly challenged a fault call on a serve that was proven incorrect, giving him the ace and his fourth hold. Still on serve through seven games, though the rallies have been more and more contested. — JIM LUTTRELL The fourth and fifth games of the match were substantially less straightforward than the sweeps in the first three, but neither player showed sign of flinching on his serve.  Djokovic did expose Federer’s proclivity for running around his backhand during one telling rally on Federer’s serve, moving the five-time champion further and further to the ad-side before smacking a winner into the open, unattended side of the court. Look for that to be a trend as the match continues. — JIM LUTTRELL The first 12 points of the first semifinal have gone to the serve, with Federer and Djokovic alternating love-holds to begin the match. Federer flew through his opening service game, hitting his spots on serves and dictating play with his forehand. Federer held at love, already sending Djokovic into skidding slides behind the baseline. Djokovic followed suit with similar big serving and hitting, a reply that was immediately met by Federer repeating his dominant performance of the opening game. This could be the sort of match in which everyone involved is grateful for the advent of the tiebreak. — JIM LUTTRELL The courts dried and ready for play, Novak Djokovic and Roger Federer have conducted their pre-match interviews with Mary Joe Fernandez on C.B.S., and have walked onto the court of Arthur Ashe Stadium to begin warming up for their semifinal “I’ve always been successful here. I don’t think I’ve ever played a bad U.S. Open,” Federer told Fernandez, showing characteristic readiness to give himself deserved praise.  Djokovic called playing Federer “the ultimate challenge.” — JIM LUTTRELL Rain has struck the 2011 U.S. Open once again, beginning to fall shortly before Novak Djokovic and Roger Federer were to step on the court. The skies have no cleared, and the “Slamboni” machines  are now out on court, motoring slowly around the damp court as the stands begin to fill.  Assuming that the rain holds off, play could begin in as little as 15 minutes. — JIM LUTTRELL Journalists from The New York Times and The International Herald Tribune (along with a few dedicated fans) are following the Grand Slam tournaments, on and off the court. They will provide updates, insights, links and analysis while setting the scene from the stands as well as the press room. 
			This blog’s regular features, including live tournament analysis, news and notes from Christopher Clarey, Ben Rothenberg and others, and other coverage, can now be found on the tennis section front.Read more… 
			Venus Williams, ranked No. 63, beat No. 2 Victoria Azarenka in Tokyo on Tuesday, her first win over a player in the top two since 2009.Read more… 
			The United States learned on Wednesday that it would host a first-round tie with Britain for the 2014 Davis Cup.Read more… 
			According to one celebrity marketing index, Andy Murray is the most appealing of the so-called Big Four in men’s tennis. Read more… 
			Sloane Stephens walked the runway Thursday night in the Just Dance With Boy Meets Girl fashion show, modeling the designs of Stacy Igel.Read more… Advertisement