Advertisement By NELSON BRYANT During the past quarter of a century, there have been rare occasions when the April 1 start of New York State's trout season was without ice and snow and thaw-swollen streams, when, save for the high country of the Adirondacks, red-winged blackbirds caroled from streamside bushes whose leaves were already unfurling. But that will not be so in 1994. This year's opener is being preceded by a few mild springlike days, but they are coming too late, except on Long Island, to erase the bitter legacy of the winter just past. By the third week of March in the Catskills, for example, ice had broken up and gone downstream in the Willowemoc and Beaverkill rivers, and a few hardy anglers were already trying for trout in the no-kill or fishing-for-fun stretches of those streams, but two to three feet of snow was on the ground in the forested hills above them. These cold-water anglers march to a different drummer. Imbued with a fierce urge to fish, they don't need the impetus of opening day to set them on their quest. Advertisement Ed Van Put of Livingston Manor, N.Y., one of the Catskills' most accomplished fly fishermen, has been awaiting April 1 with ill-contained frustration. Advertisement "Snow has been with us all the time since January," he said. "It's been a hard winter for the deer and wild turkeys. In our region, the winter just past produced the most snow and the most below-zero cold in 30 years." One way to deal with high, cold water on opening day is to fish just below the outlets of various city reservoirs, including the East and West branches of the Croton River, the Neversink, the East branch of the Delaware and Roundout Creek. The reservoirs cushion the spring runoff and the water that is coming out of them, even if some of it is going over the spillway, will be, at this time of year, nearly 10 degrees warmer than that upstream, or farther downstream, of the reservoirs. Water released from the bottom of dams on such large impoundments is about 40 degrees at this time of year and from 45 to 47 degrees in summer. The Willowemoc and the Beaverkill were not too high for fishing going into this weekend, Van Put said. Cold nights have slowed down the thawing process. Thus it is possible, as has happened on other opening days, that April 1 may offer some decent angling on those streams even though their watersheds are deep in snow.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But for many opening-day devotees, weather, short of a blizzard or a deluge, is largely irrelevant. Way back in February they were daydreaming of an April 1 assignation with a lovely stream, and this longing has been sharpened by weeks of perusing tackle catalogues, refurbishing or replacing gear, patching waders or tying flies. This is not to imply that opening day is reserved for fly fishers. Indeed, the angler with a light spinning rod and spoon or weighted hook festooned with a gob of worms has a better chance, in early spring, of catching trout than does his fly fishing counterpart. Trout are somewhat lethargic in icy water and tend to hold close to the bottom. The bait fisherman must remember, of course, that certain waters are off limits to him, including the aforementioned catch-and-release areas. The opening-day fly fisher will have his best success with weighted nymphs bounced along the bottom, although if the day is warm and the sun bright, a hatch of small aquatic insects in early afternoon will bring feeding trout to the surface where they may be taken on a dry fly. Fishing weighted nymphs, perhaps with a split shot or two fastened to the leader, is a demanding discipline. One is limited to lobbing the nymph a few rod lengths distant and responding to every bump -- most of the time it's the bottom, but it could be a trout -- as the fly moves downstream. The pleasure of laying out a long line and covering a lot of water has to be eschewed. Remaining snow cover has stalled the stocking of trout in Dutchess, Putnam and Westchester Counties, according to Wayne Elliott, fisheries manager of Region 3 for the state. Elliott says that his office hopes to begin stocking tomorrow, but adds that only a few streams will get their quota of fish, yearling brown trout about eight and one-half inches long, before opening day. When the stocking is done, more than 71,000 trout will have been put in over 100 miles of streams in Dutchess County; in Putnam County, the comparable figures are 33,000 in 22 miles, and in Westchester County, 56,000 in 34 miles. Long Island has three major trout streams that are almost always in good shape by opening day because of a milder climate and limited low-lying watersheds, and this year is no exception. Two of them, the Nissequogue in Caleb Smith State Park in Smithtown and the Connetquot in Connetquot State Park in Oakdale, require advance registration. On the Nissequogue, (516) 265-1054, one is assigned a specific stretch, or beat. On the Connetquot, (516) 581-1005, the beats are assigned on a first-come, first-served basis. On both streams, one pays $9 for four hours of fishing and a limit of two trout. On both these streams, it's fly fishing only and the hooks must be barbless. Advertisement The third stream is the Carman's River, about two miles of which is within Southaven Park in Suffolk County. The fee is $1 a day and no advance registration is required. For Carman's, one checks in at the fishing registration station, (516) 854-1414, in Brookhaven. Large, sea-run trout are occasionally taken in the tidal portions -- which are not subject to park fees or regulations -- of both the Nissequogue and Connetquot. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 29, 1994, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: OUTDOORS; Supermarket Approach for Opening Day: It's Trout on Ice.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »