Advertisement By PETER KAMINSKY It was time for sundowners at the River Cafe. The incoming tide ran hard, lapping against the footings of the Brooklyn Bridge. In the warm air of the Indian summer evening, I waited on the dock, looking for the running lights of Steve Sautner's stripped-down Mako. At 8:10, Sautner arrived accompanied by Dery Bennett, executive director of the American Littoral Society (a coastal conservation organization headquartered at Sandy Hook, N.J.). Sautner's plan was to fish for stripers right up against the shore of Governor's Island, where the lights of the ships and docks attracted bait-fish. Sautner and Bennett cast fairly light-weight spinning tackle with a variety of plugs, jigs and crank baits. I used the fly rod and a popping bug. We drifted down the line of Coast Guard craft moored along the channel between Brooklyn Heights and Governor's Island. Much as a freshwater bass fisherman's popping bug ricochets off a rocky river bank, I bounced my bug off the hulls of the ships. We had no action until we drifted past a back eddy at the southern tip of the island. Dery and Steve each boated small stripers. I had one bend my rod crisply, but I was late in setting the hook. We headed toward Jersey, passing the always productive Robins Reef in mid harbor. The tide churned furiously, and Sautner counseled a return when the current slowed. We continued to the jumble of old and new docks on the east side of the harbor. Stripers usually like to feed in the lights between the old barges that one can usually find there. Advertisement We fished around each barge. Where there was enough space to accommodate our boat, we made our way in. It was like casting in a narrow chasm. Sautner was able to send his plug a long way and was rewarded with a number of fish. I had a more difficult time. Advertisement The wind fell, and in the light of a full moon silver-sided baitfish dimpled the water's surface as they fled predators. We heard feeding bass. Steve angled our boat so that I had a right-handed cast as we drifted along the sea wall. I switched from a plug to a weighted streamer, abandoning the top-water fisherman's dream of a big bass erupting into the moonlight as it devoured my bug. Soon I was fast to a bass. I recovered line and played him off the reel. As the bass moved into the light we could make out the silhouettes of two more fish, lured by the commotion. Within minutes all of us had a fish on. We boated them, measured them (all about 24 inches) and released them just as the wake of a passing freighter struck us broadside and spun us around. We moved to the beginning of the sea wall for another drift. I switched to a green eel fly. The bass were all over it. Steve and Dery did well, but the stripers were really targeting my fly. Two more triple headers highlighted the next half hour.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The scene was a familiar one to urban anglers -- abandoned piers, a power station crammed with crackling wires and humming transformers, floating islands of old tires, scrap metal yards, rubble everywhere. It looked nothing like "A River Runs Through It," but the fishing was great. The wind fell, the tide slackened. We moved back to mid harbor and under the sweeping beacon of the lighthouse on Robins Reef, where the 40-foot drop-off consistently attracts big blues and bass. On our first drift Steve hooked a big bluefish. The combination of wind, tide and current rendered my fly rod useless. We tried three more drifts, but our sonar was out and we did not want to risk crowding the underwater outcroppings of the reef. It was past eleven. Our friend, the pioneering harbor guide, Joe Shastay, had advised Steve that there is a good rip that sets up at the turn of the tide just off Liberty Island. The water there was glassy calm, so we cut our engines and glided toward signs of feeding bass. No sooner had we picked up our rods than we were caught in the glare of a spotlight. A Coast Guard launch bore down on us. "Sorry, this is a restricted area," a sailor told us. To celebrate the 500th anniversary of the voyage of Columbus, the Grucci family had planned fireworks displays in the harbor, and we had crashed the party. We backed off to the southern tip of Governor's Island, and 15 minutes later the show began. The Italian colors -- red, green and white -- burst all around Lady Liberty, lighting the sky and reflecting off the calm surface of the water. Flights of sea ducks, startled by the explosions, took wing. The Caribbean band on a passing cruise ship underscored the fireworks finale with a driving version of "Hot, Hot, Hot." Just as the fishing had been. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 25, 1992, on Page 8008011 of the National edition with the headline: OUTDOORS; Fireworks, Above and Below the Water Line.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »