Advertisement By JOE SEXTON and  The images of doom and defeat for the Mets have become a sad blur. The fresh frames, though, keep being fed into the 1992 reel of regret, and today there were added ones of injury and insult. There was the scene of Dave Magadan, on his knees at second base in an explosion of dirt in the fifth inning, his right wrist broken. And in the ninth, there was the scene of Doug Dascenzo, in a second detonation of dust, sliding safely across the plate, another broken afternoon of effort for the Mets left in his trail. The Mets, who have lost players and games at an astonishing rate all season, lost to the Cubs, 4-3, at Wrigley Field. Then, when the diagnosis on Magadan was confirmed moments later, the Mets discovered they had lost their third baseman for a minimum of a month. Double Digits in Games Behind And so the vicious cycle of humiliation and hurt and backpedaling in the National League East has spun at last out of control for the Mets. The losing streak is at five games, the deficit is at 10 games, the disabled list at the moment is an overrun ward of essential performers. Advertisement The season, squandered inexcusably for months, has gone off the screen, lost in an unforgiving vortex of failure and circumstance. Advertisement "We're not in the miracle stage yet," said Manager Jeff Torborg. "But we're approaching it." Lee Guetterman ushered the Mets along today. The left-hander came on in the ninth with the score deadlocked at 3-3. Dascenzo singled. Ryne Sandberg fought off Guetterman's full arsenal of quality pitches and then nailed his first mistake, singling to right to advance Dascenzo to third. "The last pitch was up and away," said Guetterman. "Sandberg's got enough experience to know what to do with it." Fly Ball the Crusher Mark Grace then came to the plate understanding he only had to do the minimum. Get the baseball in the air and get the game over with. Grace's sacrifice fly to left was obviously a run-producer the second it began its ascent. It fell ultimately into Kevin Bass's glove, and Dascenzo slid over the plate, and gone in the riot of noise at Wrigley was Dwight Gooden's first start after coming off the disabled list and Bass's contributions of a run batted in, a run scored and a pair of stolen bases.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. If Magadan plays again in 1992, he'll be fortunate. The third baseman said the medical personnel at Northwestern Memorial Hospital reported that his fractured wrist would require perhaps six weeks to heal. "If it is the end of my season," said Magadan, "what a fitting end it is." Wrist Struck by Throw The end began with a routine play in the infield. The Mets had scored a run off Frank Castillo in the fifth on Magadan's single and there were Mets on first and third with Bass at the plate. His potential double-play grounder to second was fed from Sandberg to shortstop Rey Sanchez. Magadan, trying to fly into second hard, held his right arm high during his slide. Sanchez's relay smashed into Magadan's wrist. The run that scored from third came at exorbitant cost. "I wasn't conscious of where my hands were," said Magadan. "And then I was in total shock. I could tell from the sound that it was broken. It was a sound like a baseball would make crashing into eggshells." Every start is a tough start for the club's pitchers, and it was no different for Gooden. If there was added emotion because of the right-hander's return, it didn't add up to much on the scoreboard. The Cubs slapped a run on Gooden in the first, added another in the third and went ahead for good against him in the fifth. Advertisement "There was no problem physically," said Gooden. There were, though, ample difficulties with location and velocity. "There's obviously no more room for losing," said Gooden. "There's room for hoping, I suppose. A lot of hoping." INSIDE PITCH The Mets, who had told PATRICK HOWELL he was being sent back to the minors to make room for KEVIN BASS, told him to unpack his bags after the game. The center fielder was needed to go back on the roster because of DAVE MAGADAN's injury. . . . "All I foresee is a chance to play," said Bass, who was acquired from the Giants on Friday. "But one guy can maybe ignite a different attitude with his air or flair. I'm not saying I'm necessarily that guy." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 9, 1992, on Page 8008009 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Injury Inc.: Magadan Fractures His Wrist.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »