Advertisement By SANDRA BAILEY The Spanish press was covering itself with sackcloth yesterday, dissecting and critiquing the loss by its men's basketball team to Angola on Friday. The Spanish were routed, 83-63, as Angola won only its fifth international game and eliminated the team representing the basketball-mad host country. "Twenty points of shame," cried El Mundo Deportivo, which declared, "Spanish basketball is now garbage." A photo of Tomas Jofresa prone on the court was captioned, "the image of impotence." Coach Antonio Diaz Miguel was the object of more than a little derision, especially because of his comments earlier in the week that Angola did not even belong in the Olympics. Advertisement "His players don't believe in him and his game plans don't respond to modern basketball," El Mundo Deportivo sniffed, citing the Spanish coach as reason No. 1 for the loss. Norway or Bust! Advertisement The most popular office in the main press center doesn't belong to the committee organizing the Games now under way, but to the office of the Lillehammer '94 staff, getting ready for the Winter Games in Norway a mere year and a half from now. There's less time than ever to prepare for these Games, as the Olympic world switches to the alternate year cycle, in which Summer and Winter Games will no longer be held in the same years. But the Lillehammer people are not stressed out yet. Yesterday was typical, as a spread of smoked salmon had arrived from back home and was being offered with crisp flatbread and aquavit, the potato-based whiskey that is popular in Norway. The committee is ready with facts and figures, too, for those with an appetite of that sort. Designer Marksman The higher the level of competition, the higher the technology. Bob Foth of Clarence, N.Y., won a silver medal Friday in the three-position small-bore rifle-shooting competition and if that isn't technical enough, consider this: He was shooting ammunition designed specifically for him and his gun.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "At this level, our coaches believe that every little edge helps," said Karen Mutka, spokeswoman for the American shooting team. Two British Lifters Won't Be Back The British Olympic Association said yesterday that the two British weight lifters suspended after failing drug tests are definitely out of the Games and will not return. There had been uncertainty whether the substance for which Andrew Saxton and Andrew Davies tested positive, Clenbuterol, was on the International Olympic Committee's list of banned substances, but the I.O.C. ended any suspense yesterday. "That's absolutely sure, absolutely confirmed," Michele Verdier, spokeswoman for the I.O.C., said. The two tested positive before the Olympics began. Swiss Drop a Cyclist The Swiss Olympic team has barred one of their cyclists from competing at the Barcelona Games for taking medicine containing a banned drug. The team chief, Rene Meyer, said yesterday that Jacques Jolidon had been withdrawn from today's individual road race. Advertisement Meyer said Jolidon had been prescribed medication containing cortisone, banned by the International Olympic Committee because it is steroid-related. (Reuters) Pouting Lifter Is Banned The International Weight Lifting Federation banned a Russian lifter for life yesterday for disgracing the sport by rejecting an Olympic medal. Although the circumstances of Friday's incident were in some dispute, television replays showed that Ibrahim Samadov stepped onto the rostrum but did not allow the official presenting the bronze medal to place it around his neck. Samadov took the medal, put it down on the pedestal and walked quickly from the stage. His sudden exit provoked boos and whistles from the crowd. Samadov said he felt ill and blacked out during the ceremony. He was one of three lifters to finish with identical totals, but took third place because he weighed more than his opponents. (Reuters) We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 2, 1992, on Page 8008003 of the National edition with the headline: BARCELONA: NOTEBOOK; Listen to Spain Try to Explain Its 20 Points 'Of Shame'.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »