Vocal complaints lodged by several top men’s players about scheduling at the 2011 U.S. Open resulted in dramatic schedule changes, giving the men more rest between matches that might have otherwise been closer together due to rain interruption earlier in the week. But while the men were appeased, the four women who had advanced to the semifinals were done few favors by the revised schedule.  The women’s semifinals were moved from Friday afternoon to Saturday night, and the final from Saturday night to Sunday afternoon, meaning that the turnaround time between their final rounds would be far shorter than the men’s. Furthermore, the schedule of play for Saturday that was released late Friday showed that the semifinal between Angelique Kerber and No. 9 seed Samantha Stosur would not be on Arthur Ashe Stadium, instead banished to the Grandstand, which has roughly one-quarter the capacity of Ashe.  Louis Armstrong Stadium, the facility’s second largest venue, has been deemed unplayable due to water bubbling through cracks in the court. Grandstand began to show similar symptoms during a doubles match Friday, but play continued. All four men’s singles quarterfinals were played on Ashe, as will be both semifinals. Only one women’s quarterfinal was played on Ashe, and only one semifinal will be. Because of previous rain issues, this will be the third time in the last four years that a U.S. Open singles semifinal will be contested outside of Arthur Ashe Stadium. Andy Murray defeated Rafael Nadal in four sets on Louis Armstrong Stadium in 2008, and Caroline Wozniacki defeated Yanina Wickmayer on Armstrong in 2009. Both of those matches were started concurrent to the other semifinal, due to the threat of rain.  The relegation of the Stosur-Kerber match seems far less necessary, however. There is little chance of rain shown in the forecast for Saturday evening, and the schedule on Ashe allows for the men’s doubles final to follow the semifinal between Caroline Wozniacki and Serena Williams scheduled to be the first contest of the Saturday night session on Ashe.  Though the Saturday night session is scheduled to begin at 7 p.m., Caroline Wozniacki said in a Twitter message that the match will start at 8 p.m., which is when CBS coverage begins. The hour between the listed start time and the beginning of play will likely be filled with the ceremonies and music prevalent during the tournament’s final weekend while Stosur and Kerber battle on the tertiary stage.  The scheduling decision has already sparked an outcry from advocates of women’s tennis, including semi-retired Grand Slam doubles champion Rennae Stubbs.  “Travesty!” Stubbs said on Twitter. “Its the semi! whatever your feelings r they have earned the right to be on Ashe! come on @usopen” The issue could also have tennis implications for the two women beyond the perceived lack of respect. Neither has played any of her five matches thus far on Ashe, whereas Williams and Wozniacki have had a respective five and four matches to get used to the unique conditions in the windy, cavernous stadium. “I think my Semi Final is at 6pm on Grandstand, if anyone wants to watch the ONLY SEMI FINAL not on Arthur Ashe Stadium, come out tomorrow,” Stosur posted on her official Facebook page.  Journalists from The New York Times and The International Herald Tribune (along with a few dedicated fans) are following the Grand Slam tournaments, on and off the court. They will provide updates, insights, links and analysis while setting the scene from the stands as well as the press room. 
			This blog’s regular features, including live tournament analysis, news and notes from Christopher Clarey, Ben Rothenberg and others, and other coverage, can now be found on the tennis section front.Read more… 
			Venus Williams, ranked No. 63, beat No. 2 Victoria Azarenka in Tokyo on Tuesday, her first win over a player in the top two since 2009.Read more… 
			The United States learned on Wednesday that it would host a first-round tie with Britain for the 2014 Davis Cup.Read more… 
			According to one celebrity marketing index, Andy Murray is the most appealing of the so-called Big Four in men’s tennis. Read more… 
			Sloane Stephens walked the runway Thursday night in the Just Dance With Boy Meets Girl fashion show, modeling the designs of Stacy Igel.Read more… Advertisement