Advertisement By TIMOTHY W. SMITH Two days before the National Football League draft, Bengals General Manager Mike Brown says he hasn't received any offers that would tempt Cincinnati to give up the No. 1 pick. "Up to this point, we're inclined to keep it," Brown said yesterday. And the player most likely to be picked No. 1, Dan Wilkinson of Ohio State, said he wanted to be compensated accordingly, or else the Bengals should trade the pick to another team. "If I'm No. 1, then I should have the No. 1 salary for the best player in college football," Wilkinson, a star defensive tackle, said yesterday at the Newport Beach, Calif., offices of his agent, Leigh Steinberg. "If Cincinnati isn't willing to compensate me, then they should trade down." So the annual ritual of rookie contract negotiations has begun, with one important distinction: On one side is a powerful agent, Steinberg, who is used to getting what he wants for his clients, and on the other is the most miserly team in the N.F.L. A Lonely Fight Advertisement Brown said he hasn't tried to sign Wilkinson before the draft and probably won't try. That's partly because of accounts in Cincinnati papers in which Steinberg asked the Bengals "not to do to Dan" what they had done to others in past negotiations. This, Brown said , has made for a rocky start to any contract talks. Advertisement Steinberg said yesterday of Brown: "Mike Brown is in a lonely fight for economic rationality in the N.F.L. He is a Don Quixote-type figure pushing back the forces of salary madness." The Bengals traditionally have one of the league's lowest payrolls and operate under the thinking that eventually any draftee will have no choice but to sign if he wants to play his rookie season. Steinberg also represents Bengals quarterback David Klingler, and the two sides have had some testy negotiations in the past. But Steinberg said past acrimony would not play a part in talks about a contract for Wilkinson. Instead, he mentioned a philosophical difference with the Bengals over the concept of "disappearing years," in which a player reaching certain statistical achievements is then given the option to void the last year or two of a long-term contract, allowing him to renegotiate. "I'm firm on being paid for the No. 1 pick," Wilkinson said. "There's a prejudice against defensive players."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Two years ago Indianapolis made Steve Emtman, a Washington defensive tackle, the No. 1 pick. Steinberg said the Bengals have been talking about less than what Emtman signed for, about $2.3 million a season. Brown would not comment on any potential salary offer. But one thing seems clear. So far, he hasn't received an attractive enough deal to give up the top pick, no matter how hard it might be to sign Wilkinson. Patriots in the Mix There is talk that the Patriots might put together a deal to get the No. 1 pick to make sure they can get Wilkinson or Marshall Faulk, the San Diego State running back. New England picks fourth and is set at quarterback, having drafted Drew Bledsoe last year. If the Bengals selected Wilkinson, the Colts would probably take Faulk with the No. 2 pick. The Redskins are likely to take a quarterback, either Heath Shuler of Tennessee or Trent Dilfer of Fresno State. If that happens, the Patriots may decide to trade down with a team seeking the remaining passer -- Shuler or Dilfer. Advertisement Because the draft doesn't start until 3:30 Sunday afternoon, teams will have plenty of time to put together deals that day. Brown joked about what he thought most N.F.L. personnel people would be doing the Sunday morning leading up to the draft. "They'll probably go to church in the morning, then have a leisurely brunch and then watch some of the ball game," Brown said. He can afford to joke. He has the No. 1 pick. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 23, 1994, on Page 1001035 of the National edition with the headline: FOOTBALL; Wilkinson Theorem Perplexes Bengals.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »