Advertisement By JOE LAPOINTE Once again, the Rangers benefit from a break of their own making. They rest and wait between rounds, while their next opponent expends extra energy to advance in the Stanley Cup playoffs. While the Devils and the Bruins battle tonight (and, possibly, Friday night) for the right to meet them, the Rangers have two days away from practice followed by three days of workouts before opening the third round of the tournament with home games at Madison Square Garden on Sunday and Tuesday nights. "Nothing negative about a rest," said Mark Messier, the team's captain. "Same thing as last series." Messier began chanting this mantra after the Rangers swept the Islanders in four games in the first round, while Washington needed six to beat Pittsburgh. He resumed it Monday night at the Garden, after the Rangers beat the battered Capitals by 4-3 to eliminate them in five games from the Eastern Conference semifinals. Resting the Senior Class Fewer games mean fewer chances for injuries, and the Rangers have all their players healthy. Fewer games also mean longer periods of recovery for over-30 stars such as Messier, one of several members of the senior class. Advertisement So who would the Rangers prefer to play in the conference finals? The Devils, who lead their series, 3-2, or the Bruins? Advertisement "Travel is pretty good either way," said goalie Mike Richter, who gave up a fluke goal on a long shot Monday, but preserved the victory with some excellent saves in the final minute. "Certainly, with New Jersey, the travel is better for us." That's all they need, another advantage, to go with the home-ice edge in every round that they earned by finishing first over all in the regular season. The Rangers went 6-0 against the Devils during the regular season and went 1-2-1 against the Bruins. But regular-season records don't always foreshadow the playoffs. The Islanders, remember, were 2-1-2 against the Rangers this past season. So Coach Mike Keenan is concentrating on differences in defensive styles. "Boston plays a more pressure type of defense as opposed to New Jersey," he said. "Unless New Jersey alters their style. They play more of a containing style." Remaining Patient Keenan blamed defensive lapses for a 4-2 defeat in Game 4 at Washington, the Rangers' only defeat in nine post-season games. "We feel we have the offense," Keenan said. "If we have the patience defensively, we should be able to capitalize." Doing just that Monday was Brian Leetch, the attacking defenseman, who scored the winning goal with 3 minutes 28 seconds left in the game. He was set up by Sergei Zubov, who intercepted a clearing pass at the right point with his hand. Earlier, Leetch assisted on two goals by Adam Graves and one by Esa Tikkanen. Advertisement "I can't remember how I got down in front of the net," Leetch said. "I saw Zubov keep it in and I put on the brakes and he fed it right to me."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. He shot the puck between the skates of Rick Tabaracci, the goalie who came on in the first period in relief of Don Beaupre. "I had to get the puck to settle down," Leetch said. "It was in the air. I looked for an opening. It just trickled through." Leetch Leading Team Leetch now leads the team in playoff scoring with 17 points on 5 goals and 12 assists. Going into last night's two games in the Western Conference, Leetch was second over all in the playoffs to Toronto's Doug Gilmour, who had 19 points. The Capitals were a better foe than the Islanders, even though they played much of the series without key performers. Defenseman Calle Johansson missed all five games with nerve damage in his leg; forward Peter Bondra missed two games with a bruised shoulder and forward Michal Pivonka missed three games with a groin pull. Washington got respectable performances, especially late in the series, from defenseman Kevin Hatcher and center Dale Hunter, both of whom displayed tenacity and a willingness to play a nasty style. Jim Schoenfeld, the Washington coach, said the difference between the teams was that his players lacked "that final bit of execution, sharpness around the net, capitalizing on your opportunities." Most ineffective was Joe Juneau, the star center. After scoring three goals and four assists in the first-round upset of Pittsburgh, Juneau managed only one goal and one assist against the Rangers. The Fans Turn Not all Rangers are producing as expected. Glenn Anderson, with no goals and only one assist in the post-season, was benched for about half of Monday's game. The Ranger fans, loud and demanding when things are going well, showed a different side in Monday's first period, after Richter missed Hatcher's long shot that tied the game at 1-1. Advertisement The fans responded by sarcastically cheering Richter for the next few saves after that, something Keenan noted. "We're hoping for more support from our fans, certainly, in those situations," Keenan said. A similar soft goal led to the Rangers' elimination from the playoffs two years ago by Pittsburgh. Richter said that the support of his teammates was important after the fluke goal. "Those things happen," he said. "You try not to let it beat you. They were very, very upbeat on the bench." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 11, 1994, on Page B00014 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; Rangers Kick Off Skates and Wait.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »