Advertisement By JOE LAPOINTE and  When the Rangers acquired four players at the trading deadline two weeks ago, Coach Mike Keenan and General Manager Neil Smith said they added the size, grit and experience necessary to improve the team from merely a good regular-season squad to a Stanley Cup contender. In the seven games since the arrival of Craig MacTavish, Brian Noonan, Stephane Matteau and Glenn Anderson, the Rangers are 5-1-1, and those four players have combined for 11 goals. Six of the seven games have been on the road. The latest goal was scored by MacTavish, on a flukey play that turned out to be a backbreaker in a 4-2 victory over the Devils on Saturday night at Byrne Meadowlands Arena. The victory gave the Rangers a 6-0 sweep of the season series between the two teams and left them 4 points ahead of the Devils in the chase for first place in the Atlantic Division, the Eastern Conference and the 26-team National Hockey League. Best Record in Sight Going into the game on Monday night with Florida at Madison Square Garden, the Rangers have five games left, and the inside track to the President's Trophy, which goes to the team with the best regular-season record. The schedule is in their favor, with four of the five at home and the only one on the road against the Islanders. Advertisement Except for Kevin Lowe's sore-but-not-broken right hand, they are free of injury. With Mike Hudson due to return Monday, they no longer have players who are suspended. All things considered, they have a good chance to clinch the first spot over all, which would mean home-ice advantage in up to four rounds of playoffs. Advertisement "I prefer to be 4 points up than down 4," Keenan said. As for the trophy, he added: "We would be proud of that if we were able to accomplish that, but it's not an aspect of honor at this point. If any of the playoff series go seven games, you would have the opportunity to play that seventh game at home. That's probably the most advantageous reason for trying to finish first." Of course, this wasn't much help to the Rangers two seasons ago when they lost to Pittsburgh in the second round. But so much about this team is different, including Keenan, who stands behind the bench in place of Roger Neilson, who will stand behind the other bench Monday because he is coaching the Panthers, a surprisingly successful expansion team. When Neilson last took the Rangers into post-season play, he didn't have anyone quite like MacTavish, a 35-year-old center who has played in 141 playoff games in his 13 previous seasons in the N.H.L. Playoff Intensity In Saturday's game, which had playoff intensity, the Devils took a 2-0 lead in the first period before MacTavish emerged as the pivotal player for New York. He was on the ice when Brian Leetch scored the first Ranger goal. After Matteau and Aleksei Kovalev gave the Rangers a 3-2 lead, MacTavish was on the best spot of the ice when the Devils mishandled the puck in the final seconds of the second period.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. First, New Jersey's rookie goalie Martin Brodeur failed to contain a dump-in; next, Devils defenseman Tommy Albelin accidentally tipped the puck back into the slot. MacTavish found the disk on his stick in front of the net. With a backhanded shot, he put it past Brodeur for his first goal as a Ranger, his 17th of the season and the 200th of his N.H.L. career. (Since joining the Rangers, Matteau has four goals, Noonan and Anderson have three each.) "It was a wacky play," MacTavish said. "I almost didn't go after the puck." He wasn't sure if the play was offsides or if the period had ended with the sound of the horn drowned out by the roar of the crowd. "I thought I'd take a chance and suffer through possible embarrassment," he said. "Sometimes you get lucky." Advertisement In the third period, MacTavish got long shifts, playing on a checking line with Noonan and Greg Gilbert. He took face-offs. He blocked shots. He even tempted fate by putting his glove on a puck at the edge of the Ranger crease while killing a penalty. Knowing the Limits Referee Andy Van Hellemond could have awarded a penalty shot to the Devils. "It was penalty-shot material," MacTavish said. He didn't see the referee watching him. "I could sense his presence, an ominous shadow." One reason MacTavish has lasted so long in the league, and one of the reasons he was captain of the Edmonton Oilers, is that he knows how far the rules will bend. He pushed the puck away, his teammates cleared it, Van Hellemond kept his arm at his side and the threat passed. "Experience helps," MacTavish said. And youth can contribute as well. The winning goal was Kovalev's, his 21st goal of the season, a whistling slapper through Matteau's screen from the top of the right-wing circle on the power play. The second-year forward from Russia has a career-high point-scoring streak of nine games. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 4, 1994, on Page C00003 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; Rangers' Additions Producing As Planned.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »