Advertisement  AP Scott Sisson's 38-yard field goal with eight seconds remaining gave unbeaten Georgia Tech a 6-3 victory today over Virginia Tech. Sisson's second field goal in the final quarter capped a 63-yard drive and enabled Georgia Tech (8-0-1) to extend its home-field winning streak to 12 games. The Yellow Jackets are unbeaten in their last 13 games. Sisson had given the Jackets a 3-3 tie with 5 minutes 9 seconds remaining with a 33-yard field goal. Shawn Jones engineered the winning drive, which began at the 16 with only 70 seconds left in the game. He hit William Bell with a 15-yard pass at the Virginia Tech 41 and came back with an 18-yard pass to Emmett Merchant at the Hokies' 23 to set up the field goal. Florida 38, Georgia 7 JACKSONVILLE, Fla., (AP) -- Shane Matthews threw for 344 yards and three touchdowns and Florida's defense scored on an interception return and set up two other first-half touchdowns, leading the Gators to victory over Georgia in a Southeastern Conference game. Advertisement Florida (8-1 over all, 5-1 in the S.E.C.) ended a three-game losing streak in the annual neutral-site series. The Gators are barred from post-season play and are ineligible to win the S.E.C. championship because of National Collegiate Athletic Association probation, but goals of finishing with the league's best record and the school's first 10-victory season are within reach. Florida St. 70, Cincinnati 21 Advertisement TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) -- Terrell Buckley returned an interception 83 yards for a touchdown and set up another score with a long punt return as Florida State, scoring on its first nine possessions, routed Cincinnati. Florida State (7-2) led by 49-7 at the half and punted only once in winning its third straight. Bowl bids cannot officially be extended until Nov. 24, but Florida State will play in the first Blockbuster Bowl on Dec. 28, said an athletic department spokesman who spoke on condition of anonymity. Although Cincinnati (1-9) was never in the game, the Bearcats rolled up a season-high 459 yards. Virginia 24, North Carolina 10 CHAPEL HILL, N.C. (AP) -- Shawn Moore threw two touchdown passes to give Virginia the victory. Moore, the nation's top-rated passer, hit Herman Moore with a 13-yard touchdown pass at the end of Virginia's first drive on a soggy afternoon. He then connected with Terry Kirby on a 42-yard scoring play with 4:46 left before halftime. Nikki Fisher dashed around left end for 2 yards for a score late in the first quarter.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Herman Moore, playing despite two sprained big toes, caught a touchdown pass for the ninth consecutive game, an N.C.A.A. record. He tied another record by catching a scoring pass in his 10th straight regular-season game. The Cavaliers are 8-1 and 5-1. North Carolina is 5-4-1 and 2-2-1. S. Mississippi 13, Auburn 12 AUBURN, Ala. (AP) -- Anthony Harris caught a 10-yard touchdown pass from Brett Favre with 46 seconds left and Southern Mississippi shocked Auburn. It was the second straight loss for Auburn (6-2-1) and the Tigers' first defeat at home since 1987. With scouts from six bowl games looking on, Southern Mississippi (8-3) probably locked up a post-season invitation while dealing a severe blow to Auburn's hopes of a fifth straight New Year's Day appearance. Alabama 24, L.S.U. 3 TUSCALOOSA, Ala. (AP) -- Chris Anderson ran 30 and 46 yards for touchdowns and the Alabama defense held Louisiana State to a field goal as the Crimson Tide defeated L.S.U. in an S.E.C. game. The victory gave Alabama a winning mark (5-4) in Gene Stallings's first season as the Crimson Tide coach and dropped L.S.U. to 4-5. Alabama (4-2 in the S.E.C.) remained in the running for a bowl bid, while L.S.U. fell to 2-4 in conference play. N. Carolina St. 16, Duke 0 Advertisement RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) -- Bobby Jurgens caught a 55-yard scoring pass and North Carolina State's defense sacked Duke quarterbacks seven times and picked off five passes en route to victory. Louisville 17, B.C. 10 LOUISVILLE, Ky. (AP) -- Mark Sander returned an interception 30 yards for the decisive touchdown, and John Gainey made an end-zone interception as time expired to preserve Louisville's victory. Sander's interception, one of five off the Boston College freshman Glenn Foley, widened Louisville's lead to 17-7 with 8 1/2 minutes left in the third quarter. Despite six turnovers, Boston College (4-5) was in position to tie or win on the game's final play from the Louisville 31. Foley passed into the end zone to Ray Hilvert, but Gainey leaped to make the interception that insured Louisville's best record (9-1-1) since 1972. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 11, 1990, on Page 8008004 of the National edition with the headline: COLLEGE FOOTBALL: South; Ga. Tech Remains Unbeaten on Kicks.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »