As water continued to gurgle up onto the court of Louis Armstrong Stadium, 2003 U.S. Open champion Andy Roddick took control. He forcefully convinced both tournament referee Brian Earley and opponent David Ferrer to move their match to tiny Court 13, which seats fewer than 600 spectators. “Follow me,” he said to Ferrer as he charged out of Armstrong and toward their new venue.  Roddick’s energy did not diminish once the match resumed. Roddick came over his shots and belted winners in a way he hadn’t done in years before this tournament, upending the clearly flustered fifth-seed 6-3, 6-4, 3-6, 6-3. Roddick, seeded 21st, finished his time on Court 13 the way Americans Todd Martin and Taylor Dent famously had before him in U.S. Opens past, running a lap around the court and high-fiving everyone he could reach. Though ranked almost 20 spots below him, Roddick should feel confident going into his quarterfinal match with No. 2 seed Rafael Nadal. Roddick has a 3-3 career record against Nadal on hard courts, and won their lone previous meeting at a Grand Slam, beating Nadal 6-0, 6-3, 6-4 on Arthur Ashe Stadium in the second round of the 2004 U.S. Open.  Journalists from The New York Times and The International Herald Tribune (along with a few dedicated fans) are following the Grand Slam tournaments, on and off the court. They will provide updates, insights, links and analysis while setting the scene from the stands as well as the press room. 
			This blog’s regular features, including live tournament analysis, news and notes from Christopher Clarey, Ben Rothenberg and others, and other coverage, can now be found on the tennis section front.Read more… 
			Venus Williams, ranked No. 63, beat No. 2 Victoria Azarenka in Tokyo on Tuesday, her first win over a player in the top two since 2009.Read more… 
			The United States learned on Wednesday that it would host a first-round tie with Britain for the 2014 Davis Cup.Read more… 
			According to one celebrity marketing index, Andy Murray is the most appealing of the so-called Big Four in men’s tennis. Read more… 
			Sloane Stephens walked the runway Thursday night in the Just Dance With Boy Meets Girl fashion show, modeling the designs of Stacy Igel.Read more… Advertisement