Advertisement By DAVE ANDERSON THEY are never listed in the tale of the tape. They are usually ignored in the hype. What they do between rounds is upstaged either by a commercial or the banter of television analysts. But a boxer's cornermen often define a fight, for better or for worse. And more and more, they are defining the heavyweight champion. In emerging as the first left-handed heavyweight titleholder, Michael Moorer did what his new trainer, Teddy Atlas, had instructed him to do: use the right jab. And he responded to Atlas's challenge after the eighth round. "He was getting in the mold of just doing enough to survive," Atlas was saying yesterday in explaining why he had sat on Moorer's stool in the corner. "I told him, 'If you don't want to fight, I'll fight this guy.' " In the months before losing the World Boxing Association and International Boxing Federation titles for the second time, Evander Holyfield did what he never should have done: change trainers again and dismiss his longtime cut man. Advertisement Don Turner was in Holyfield's corner Friday night as both coach and cut man. He did neither job well. Holyfield's tactics didn't change. Turner never closed the cut above the now ex-champion's left eye. Advertisement Holyfield hired Turner, one of boxing's more obscure trainers, after splitting with Emanuel Steward, who sculptured the 12-round decision that dethroned Riddick Bowe last year. Holyfield had earlier deserted his longtime co-trainers, George Benton and Lou Duva, who molded him into a champion and always used 75-year-old Ace Marotta as a cut man. Marotta was in Holyfield's corner for last year's Bowe rematch, but the two-time champion, who has earned over $100 million, preferred to save the cut man's $25,000 fee. Marotta has closed deeper cuts. And by having to treat the cut between rounds, Turner was distracted from telling Holyfield what to do. Holyfield remained an easy target for Moorer's right jab, the punch that kept reopening the cut and clouding his vision in the majority 12-round decision. None of the others in Holyfield's corner had a useful word. But if Benton, Duva and Marotta had been there, or Steward and Marotta, the duties would have been shared.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Ace would've closed that cut just like that, no problem," Duva said yesterday. "Turner's saying he wanted Holyfield moving to the left but he should've been moving to the right. You learn that in the amateurs. The other guys in Evander's corner were bodybuilders. They don't know boxing." All this was another sorry example in the 90's of a heavyweight champion or his advisers either changing cornermen and consultants or not heeding their advice. Not long after Mike Tyson was persuaded by the promoter Don King to discharge Kevin Rooney as his trainer, he was dethroned by Buster Douglas in an 11th-round knockout. Rooney wasn't there as Tyson prepared casually. Rooney wasn't there between rounds when Tyson was ignoring inexperienced Jay Bright and Aaron Snowell. Eight months later, Douglas was dethroned by Holyfield in a third-round knockout. Douglas weighed a blubbery 246 pounds because his manager-trainer, Johnny Johnson, had not disciplined his dining habits. Advertisement Riddick Bowe, relatively trim after gulping what he called "maggot juice" supplied by the nutritionist Dick Gregory, dethroned Holyfield in a brutal 12-round decision. But for their rematch, Gregory was nowhere to be seen. Overweight and overconfident, Bowe lost a 12-round decision as Holyfield thrived under Steward's tutelage. Moorer, who ironically had been developed into a light-heavyweight champion by Steward, praised Teddy Atlas yesterday for being a "no-nonsense type of guy, like me." But the 37-year-old trainer from Staten Island was wondering about continuing with the new champion. "It would be hard to do it again with this guy; it was a grind," Atlas said yesterday. "It's like a throwaway razor. You use it once and that's it. But there's a lot of money out there for my family. And we have a bond now. No matter what happens, we'll always have this night." And when Michael Moorer fights again, look for Teddy Atlas to be in his corner. Unless, like so many other heavyweights recently, the new champion foolishly changes trainers. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 24, 1994, on Page 8008001 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; A Champion's Little Corner Of the World.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »