Advertisement By SETH BERKMANJULY 5, 2014
 The Mets have been vocal in their support of Jon Niese’s bid for an All-Star selection this season, despite his 5-4 record. On Friday, Niese was presented with an opportunity to prove his worth against Yu Darvish, one of the game’s best pitchers and last year’s American League leader in strikeouts. But Niese’s start against the Texas Rangers did not proceed as planned. He retired only one batter before leaving with a lower back contusion. The Mets regrouped for a 6-5 victory, but Niese’s injury was another frustrating episode in a season that has been in a downward spiral over the last month. It was not the only setback for the Mets. David Wright, who missed the last six games with a bruised rotator cuff, did not return to the lineup. Steady afternoon showers prevented Wright from completing a pregame routine that would allow the Mets to assess how he looked fielding ground balls and making throws from third to first. Advertisement “The team hasn’t played all that well,” said Wright, who noted that his shoulder has been feeling better since he aggravated the rotator cuff June 26 in Pittsburgh. “Obviously, they’re playing a man down, so I feel terrible about that.” Advertisement While Wright will look to make his return on Saturday, Niese’s status was not immediately clear. In the first inning, Alex Rios hit a line drive that ricocheted off Niese’s back. Niese was able to collect the ball and throw out Rios at first base, but he left the game without attempting a practice pitch. X-rays taken during the game were negative. After the game, Collins said Niese was taken out as a precaution, to make sure he did not sustain a severe injury such as a broken rib. Niese said he felt “100 percent” and that he was experiencing no tightness. “I didn’t want to get taken out,” said Niese, who added that he was going to try to persuade the Mets’ staff to allow him to pitch before his next scheduled start Wednesday. “I felt like I was cheated there a little bit.” Niese entered the game having allowed three runs or fewer in 20 consecutive starts, the longest current streak in the majors. He gave up a leadoff home run to Shin-Soo Choo, and left the game after throwing only 12 pitches. In a rarity, Darvish was also inconsistent, allowing four runs in five innings, including a two-run homer by Lucas Duda in the first that gave the Mets a 3-1 lead.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Mets scored another run off Darvish in the fourth inning, when Eric Campbell doubled home Duda. Carlos Torres kept the Mets in the game, pitching admirably in emergency relief duty. He allowed two runs in four and two-thirds innings after replacing Niese. Campbell, Wright’s replacement over the last week, struggled defensively. In the seventh inning, with runners on first and third, Campbell could not cleanly field a potential double-play ground ball from Chris Gimenez. Campbell’s only option was a throw to first base, allowing Elvis Andrus to score from third and tie the score at 4-4. Travis d’Arnaud put the Mets back on top in the eighth with a two-out, two-run double. Niese has been less dominant than Darvish this season, but he has been the Mets’ best pitcher so far. Advertisement Speaking to reporters earlier in the day, General Manager Sandy Alderson said that he was disappointed in the team’s record, but that he believed the Mets were, “playing much closer to a .500 club.” Whether the team becomes a buyer or seller before the July 31 nonwaiver trade deadline should become apparent in the next few weeks. If Niese does not miss an extended period because of the injury, the Mets could find themselves with an excess of starting pitchers. Dillon Gee, who has been on the disabled list since May 11 with a strained right lateral muscle, struck out 10 batters over six innings in a rehabilitation start Friday for the Brooklyn Cyclones. Alderson, however, said he was always hesitant to trade starting pitchers. “I’m cognizant an issue for us is offense and run production,” he said. “I’m not writing off that possibility. At the same time, what’s getting us to a higher level of performance, hopefully, and success, is our pitching.” The Mets’ offense should receive a boost if Wright is cleared to play Saturday. He said he did not swing a bat until Friday, but was eager to return to the field. The Mets hope Niese is not far behind. “I think our team’s on the right track,” Alderson said. “I don’t think we’re that far away.” A version of this article appears in print on July 5, 2014, on Page D7 of the New York edition with the headline: Injuries and Uneven Play Take Some Luster Off a Mets Victory.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »