Advertisement By JACK CURRY and  Inning after inning, Don Mattingly prowls the Yankee dugout like a subdued drill sergeant. He will congratulate the pitcher after a spotless inning, he will implore the first batter to get on base to open the new inning, he will talk about grabbing opportunities and continuing to perform with zest. It is the off-the-field Mattingly that fans rarely see. Maybe Mattingly is taking his job as team captain more seriously this season. Maybe he wants to erase the tepid approach he observed in three games earlier this season. Maybe with 14 players over 30 years old and at least four prominent players who can become free agents after the 1994 season, Mattingly realizes it is time for this unit to achieve glory. Now or never. "I think we've all noticed some games early where we didn't come to play," said Mattingly, whose offense, defense and orations have helped the Yankees run off a 10-game winning streak going into their game with the Minnesota Twins Tuesday night. "I just want us to come to play every day, and we've been doing that. We haven't gotten lazy." Revival at the Plate Lazy? How could the Yankees get lazy with Mattingly boosting them and badgering them?  While Paul O'Neill has hit .516 with three homers and eight runs batted in to ignite an offense that has averaged 6.7 runs during the streak, Mattingly's revival has been impressive. He has 23 hits in his last 25 games, and during the 10-game streak, he has one homer, six runs batted and a .444 average. Advertisement The dull .184 average Mattingly had on April 16 has been replaced by a glossy .323 mark. Mattingly promised that he would not let another dismal April destroy his confidence or force him to tinker with his batting stance. His patience has been rewarded with tremendous results. He had four hits and drove in two runs in New York's 12-1 victory over the Brewers in Milwaukee Sunday and his 408-foot homer to center field off Matt Kiefer rekindled the past. Advertisement "It's been a few years" since Mattingly has hit a ball that far, said Luis Polonia. "It's nice to see him coming back." "If we keep him going with O'Neill," said Randy Velarde, "who knows how long the streak can go on?" Providing a Push  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Although clubhouse karma can get overdramatized depending on whether a team is winning or losing, several players insisted that Mattingly's impact on them was genuine. A diligent worker, Mattingly is apparently inspiring them through his words and deeds. "I've never seen anyone push his teammates the way he does," said Polonia, who rejoined the Yankees this season after four years with the Angels. "He spends nine innings doing it. It's amazing. He wasn't that way when I was here the last time. When he does that, that makes me get going. I say: 'God, look at this guy. Let's do it for him.' He wants for this team to win more than anybody." And he makes no bones about it. "It's like when he says something, it sounds a little louder than everyone else," O'Neill said. "We all listen. There are certain people that everyone respects. I don't know if you would say you look up to him, but you want to play hard because he plays hard." Sometimes, Mattingly might react too harshly, as he did last Friday when he argued with third-base umpire Tim McClelland after a questionable strike and was ejected. With Mike Stanley injured and Jim Leyritz already catching, third baseman Wade Boggs was forced to handle first base for only the third time since 1982. Mattingly had put the Yankees in a precarious spot, but they won the game with the Brewers anyway. "Donnie has a right to air his complaints," said Manager Buck Showalter, who knows Mattingly's value in the clubhouse. Asked for the highlight of the team's winning streak, Showalter did not pick a play, game or player. He picked a player's actions. "Listening to Donnie rally the troops and get everyone reaching their levels," Showalter responded. "The way he goes about his business, he can't help but be someone who carries extra weight. The things he does mentally and pyschologically for us, the defense and the approach make my job easier." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 17, 1994, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Mattingly Brings More Than His Bat and Glove to Yanks.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »