Advertisement Supported by Global Soccer By Rob Hughes LONDON — As the World Cup changes into a knock-out format from this weekend, the fact that Uruguay is appealing the punishment for Luis Suárez shows that it fails to accept, even now, that Suárez committed the unacceptable. What Suárez did was not as dangerous as some tackles. Nor did it appear to be premeditated and as potentially harmful as Brazil’s golden boy, Neymar, elbowing Luka Modric in the face in the opening match — or Belgium’s Steven Defour stomping down on the outstretched leg of South Korea’s Kim Shin-wook on Thursday. Neymar was let off with a yellow card; Defour was sent off. Those are refereeing calls. Neymar could have broken the cheekbone or damaged the eye socket of a fellow professional. Defour was lucky that his violence did not snap the Korean’s shinbone. But such judgments are made in every game. Suárez is unique in that he has now taken three bites out of opposing players. He needs either a muzzle or psychiatric help, and FIFA’s quite proper ban on his going anywhere near a stadium or another opponent for four months gives him opportunity to sort himself out, if that is possible. He has a wonderful talent and a match winner’s mentality, but he cannot be allowed to set a precedent that leaves such a bad taste in the sport played by hundreds of millions. It will be a delicate period in his life, because there is a thin line between suppressing the shocking impulse to bite while at the same time allowing the almost childlike state that makes this player chase lost causes on the field and turn them into memorable goals. People have excused the villainy in him (and the cheating at the previous World Cup in 2010 that cost Ghana a place in the semifinals) by saying it is instinct, the win at all costs philosophy. And some are fooled by Suárez’s being a loving father to his children. So were many mafia bosses. However, his victim for this latest bite, Giorgio Chiellini, is far from a sporting innocent. Three times at the start of the game, the Italian turned crybaby, falling to the ground, trying to get opponents sent off. Chiellini is a big, brutish defender who must really love opposing forwards, so tightly and so often does he hug them at every corner kick or dead ball situation when Italy is defending its goalmouth. Italy, and Uruguay, reverted to type during Tuesday’s decisive group game in Natal. The coaches Cesare Prandelli and Óscar Tabárez have done excellent work in reviving their national teams, and up to this encounter had seemed to set a tone of sportsmanship, along with the ability to win soccer games. Prandelli, indeed, had been called “The Priest” because of his strict code of ethics in terms of player behavior. And at Euro 2012, his Italians went all the way to the final against Spain, with Italy performing with greater creativity than we can recall. Alas, when the chips were down on Tuesday, Italy was negative and niggling and seeking only to draw the game. Uruguay, a country whose past glories belie its tiny population of 3.4 million, was prepared to put bodies on the line. We have seen both elements from Uruguay in the past. The team of the 1990s, coached by Tabárez, had one of the most beautiful creators, Enzo Francescoli, but he was a prince among the darkness of destructive Uruguayans whose tackles left their marks on wounded players. Tabárez, a primary school teacher in his time, had come back for a second spell as national coach for the 2010 World Cup and this one. He revived the mentality he instilled in his players’ rallying cry of the Charrúa, the native Indian cry by which Uruguay’s team is known. Fine. Suárez showed that spirit by returning to strike two goals against England, barely one month after requiring knee surgery that would have ruled most people out of this tournament. In the same game, Uruguay’s defender Álvaro Pereira had overruled the team doctor and insisted on playing on despite appearing to be groggy after a blow to the head. That courage, even Pareira later admitted, was misguided and potentially permanently harmful to his health. Italy, too, has crossed the line. Sometimes we forget that it was an Italian, Marco Materazzi, whose foul mouthing provoked Zinédine Zidane to butt him in the chest in the 2006 World Cup final. It was an Italian, Marco Tassotti, who in the 1994 World Cup broke the nose of a Spaniard, Luis Enrique, with an elbow. It was Italy that raised Machiavellian rumors over refereeing when it went out of the 2002 World Cup against South Korea. And it was after Italy had lost during this tournament to Costa Rica that FIFA for some reason called in seven Costa Ricans for dope testing. Italians do not, it seems, go gentle into the dark of defeat. Prandelli has subsequently resigned, saying, “When there is failure, the person in charge must take responsibility.” Uruguay’s coach Tabárez has sadly joined the chorus of his countrymen who claim that the punishment for Suárez is excessive. Tabárez, like Prandelli, is a scholarly man — yet the Uruguayan spoke of a conspiracy against his player “by people hiding in the trees.” There is no conspiracy. Claudio Sulser, the Swiss lawyer who heads FIFA’s disciplinary panel, is a former national team striker. “Such behavior cannot be tolerated,” Sulser stated, “and in particular not at a World Cup when the eyes of millions are on the stars on the field.” If there is any ulterior motive in the judgment it is that FIFA views Americans tuning into its sport as never before. One way of courting popularity in the United States, and with it the corporate dollar, is to demonstrate that soccer is not prepared to have its game reduced to the level of violence practiced in ice hockey.   Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS