Advertisement By CLAIRE SMITH Bud Selig has been labeled a lot of things, not all of them kind, certainly not all of them fair. But there's no denying that if anything has come from the 21 months that baseball has been without a commissioner, it's this: Selig has undergone an incredible transformation of image. Selig was once viewed as an impassioned -- but not necessarily persuasive -- spokesman of the small-market clubs and the leader of a Player Relations Committee that could claim no victories in the endless battles with players. He is now believed by his fellow owners to be the glue that binds them together in a way never achieved before. It's as if a cult of personality has sprung up around the owner who has been elevated to head baseball's ruling executive council, the man whose very presence has made the vacancy in the commissioner's office so irrelevant, owners no longer pretend to consider candidates. That in itself is amazing when considering that some of the same owners who laud Selig, have now angrily and vocally opposed a Selig-led coalition that successfully ousted the commissioner, Fay Vincent, in 1992. Advertisement True, no candidate in his or her right mind would knowingly walk into the land-mine strewn field that is a baseball labor negotiation year. The union is too tough. The players never lose. The owners never win. But Selig has taken the thankless task and run with it, successfully to this point, as shown this week at the owners' quarterly meetings. Advertisement For the second straight gathering of the 28 clubs, the owners marched out after unanimously approving proposals previously viewed all but impossible to get through: Revenue sharing (albeit with a rather large asterisk). A salary cap proposal that could well cause the players to strike. A rules change requiring three-quarters vote of the clubs rather than a simple majority to negotiate an end to a strike. After each triumph, Selig talked of unprecedented unity. Such rhetoric by management officials also preceded negotiations with players in 1972, 1973, 1976, 1980, 1981, 1985 and 1990. Each of those years saw work stoppages. And capitulation by owners. But this time, the owners swear, it's different. Because economic meltdown is imminent for several franchises (isn't it always, the players might counter). But also because of Selig. Fred Wilpon of the Mets said: "It's a talent, a great talent. Let's give credit where credit is due. It's wonderful what Bud has done." Yet another management official said: "He's got someone who believes in him in every camp. They're as close to being an airline as I've ever seen -- united. The proof is what happened here." And what happened is this. The owners came together for two days of debate on the proposal to be presented to the union Tuesday by the owners' chief negotiator, Richard Ravitch. The debate ended after only a half a day, with unanimous support.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Jerry Reinsdorf, owner of the Chicago White Sox, and Wilpon come from large-market franchises, clubs whose revenues cause such envy and angst among the smaller clubs, which Selig certainly represents. These disparate interests agree, some owners say, because Selig, a phone-aholic who has worked the proverbial room 20 hours a day for over 20 years, has never done it better than he has the last 21 months. Advertisement "Buddy has had years of developing relationships with people and they don't want to hurt Buddy," Reinsdorf said. "They won't back-stab him." The friendship, the respect that are so evident, now, certainly could dissipate after, say, two months of a strike that could cost owners tens of millions of dollars. And, it might be argued, all those fond thoughts certainly didn't carry Selig and his P.R.C. to victory in 1985 or 1990, when the players waited until the owners caved. No less than Selig says those days, both for himself and the other owners, are over. "Being chairman of the P.R.C., merely you served to do what the clubs wanted and what the circumstances allowed you to," Selig said. "You're not negotiating with yourself. You're not always the master of your own destiny." Has his role changed? Is it more influential, now? "Honesty implores me to tell you yes, yes it has," he said. That would seem to make it all the more important for Selig to win this time, because there's obviously more to lose, namely a coalition that might not ever be built again. But, insisted Selig, "this is one of those situations in life where there will be no winners on any side. So this behooves everyone on both sides to be statesmanlike and rise above whatever has happened in the past." If Selig and the owners do that, and take the players with them, instead of the other way around, then the new era they speak of will become reality. To fail will mean they will once again forfeit the right to be viewed with any semblance of credibility. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 10, 1994, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: ON BASEBALL; The Man Who Brings The Owners Together.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »