Advertisement By MICHAEL MARTINEZ and  His presidency might have ended in despair and resignation, but Richard Nixon's happiest moments in Washington surely included the relationship he had with major league baseball. For an afternoon, he brought back the fond memories. Nixon, always a fan, and his son-in-law David Eisenhower today saluted their all-time great baseball teams from three eras, announcing the teams at a $200-a-plate luncheon at the Nixon Presidential Museum. Guests dined on pasta Lasorda and had a baseball cake for dessert as Eisenhower introduced former players in attendance, including Bob Feller, Harmon Killebrew, Johnny Bench and Brooks Robinson. After Maury Wills, the Los Angeles Dodgers' career stolen-base leader, was asked by Eisenhower what it took to win, Nixon walked up to the microphone and told Wills, "I thought you would say, 'Steal.' " Later, he acknowledged California Angels Manager Buck Rodgers, who continues his recovery from injuries suffered in a team bus accident on the New Jersey Turnpike in May. He told the audience, "You can now see why I'm against busing." Advertisement And about the Washington Senators, he remarked, to applause: "It was easier to be a fan of the Senators than for some of the senators in Washington today." Purely Subjective Choices Advertisement Nixon, a frequent visitor to Yankee Stadium, where he watched games from George Steinbrenner's private box, and Eisenhower selected their all-time teams in purely subjective terms: from 1925 to 1959, which they termed the Yankee era; from 1960 to 1991, the expansion era, and their current favorite players.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Five Mets were included on the current National League team: third baseman Howard Johnson, designated hitter Bobby Bonilla and pitchers Dwight Gooden, Bret Saberhagen and David Cone. Don Mattingly was the only Yankee on their American League team. Their notation on the first baseman: "Ole man who keeps the Yankees alive." Two former Mets, Darryl Strawberry -- "Has flaws, but he was the heart of the Mets in the 80's," they said -- and Gary Carter, were named to Nixon's National League team. One-time Yankee Goose Gossage was on the American League team. Hoping for Home Runs Among those on their Yankee era team were Jackie Robinson, Stan Musial, Willie Mays, Roy Campanella, Lou Gehrig, Phil Rizzuto, Babe Ruth, Joe DiMaggio and Ted Williams. Their expansion era team included Henry Aaron, Roberto Clemente, Sandy Koufax, Tom Seaver, Mickey Mantle, Reggie Jackson and Thurman Munson. Billy Martin was the American League manager. Nixon's remarks were strictly nonpolitical, although he noted that the three presidential candidates -- President Bush, Gov. Bill Clinton and the undeclared candidate, Ross Perot -- are left-handers. "We hope they can hit home runs for America the way Babe Ruth hit them for the Yankees," he said. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 16, 1992, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Nixon-Eisenhower Ticket Casts Its Baseball Votes.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »