Advertisement  Pirates 5, Padres 1 Randy Tomlin continued his streaky season by checking San Diego on seven singles over eight innings and Barry Bonds drove in two runs in Pittsburgh's 5-1 decision tonight, the Pirates' first victory in seven games against the Padres this season. Tomlin (12-7) has followed a seasonlong pattern of being awful one month and awesome the next, a streak he has continued by going 2-0 with a 1.80 e.r.a. in August. Tomlin, who went eight starts before winning his 11th decision, was 4-0 in April, 1-3 in May, 5-1 in June and 0-3 with a 5.45 e.r.a. in July. He has allowed just six earned runs in four starts this month, all of them Pirate victories. The victory gave the Pirates a three-game lead over Montreal in the National League East. Braves 5, Expos 1 Advertisement MONTREAL (AP) -- Charlie Leibrandt pitched a four-hitter as Atlanta won for the 14th time in 17 games. Advertisement Leibrandt (10-4) struck out four and walked none for his third complete game. He is the fourth Atlanta pitcher to reach double figures in victories this season, joining Tom Glavine (18), John Smoltz (14) and Steve Avery (10). The Expos' Ken Hill (13-6) made two throwing errors leading to three runs in the third inning. Hill gave up seven hits in six innings as the Expos lost their third straight game. Reds 6, Phillies 0 Phillies 6, Reds 1 PHILADELPHIA (AP) -- Curt Schilling pitched a four-hitter as Philadelphia beat Cincinnati to gain a split of a twilight-night doubleheader. Greg Swindell (12-5) pitched a seven-hitter for his third shutout of the season as the Reds won the first game.  Schilling (11-7) pitched hitless ball in the second game until the Reds' starter, Jose Rijo, led off the sixth with a single to left.  Schilling lost his shutout in the ninth on Bill Doran's r.b.i.-grounder. Astros 7, Cardinals 6 ST. LOUIS (AP) -- Pinch-hitter Ernest Riles singled in the tying run and Craig Biggio followed with a two-run single in a four-run seventh inning as Houston overcame a season-high three home runs by St. Louis. Ray Lankford gave the Cardinals a 3-2 lead with a two-run homer, his 13th, in the sixth inning. Indians 8, Twins 1 CLEVELAND (AP) -- Catcher Junior Ortiz got the better of two home-plate collisions as Cleveland twice cut down the potential tying run in the sixth inning.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Glenallen Hill homered and doubled for the Indians, winners of 7 of their last 11 games. The Twins have lost three straight and 10 of their last 14. White Sox 3, Rangers 0 CHICAGO (AP) -- Jack McDowell outdueled Kevin Brown, pitching a six-hitter for Chicago. McDowell (16-7) joined Brown (16-8) as the top winners in the American League by pitching his first shutout of the season and his major league-leading 10th complete game. He walked one and struck out six. The victory was the third straight and 15th in the last 20 games for the White Sox, who improved to 11-1 in their last 12 home games. The Rangers lost their fourth in a row. Brown pitched his eighth complete game, allowing nine hits, walking three and striking out five. Blue Jays 12, Brewers 1 MILWAUKEE (AP) -- Dave Winfield triggered a five-run first inning with a bases-clearing double as Toronto romped. Advertisement The first-place Blue Jays quickly knocked out Milwaukee starter Bruce Ruffin, who gave up five hits and five runs in one-third of an inning. Devon White singled, Roberto Alomar walked and Joe Carter singled to short to load the bases. Winfield, who had five r.b.i. in the Blue Jays' previous game, the nightcap of a doubleheader in Cleveland on Sunday, then hit his bases-loaded double to right-center to make it 3-0. John Olerud singled in Winfield and a single by Kelly Gruber finished Ruffin (1-5). Pat Borders later hit a sacrifice fly off reliever Ricky Bones to make it 5-0. Mariners 8, Orioles 3 BALTIMORE (AP) -- Dave Fleming won his 14th game and Jay Buhner and Ken Griffey Jr. homered for Seattle. Fleming (14-5) took a four-hitter and a 4-1 lead into the eighth inning, but Mike Devereaux hit a two-run homer. Jeff Nelson worked out of a jam by striking out Leo Gomez and finished for his third save and Seattle's third straight victory. Baltimore fell four games behind Toronto in the American League East with its third straight loss and seventh in its last 11 games. Red Sox 8, Angels 0 BOSTON (AP) -- Roger Clemens pitched a four-hitter for his 34th career shutout and took over the American League strikeout lead. Clemens (15-7) improved to 3-0 with two shutouts against California, allowing only one run in the three games. His eight strikeouts gave him 164, moving him past the Yankees' Melido Perez. Tigers 5, Royals 1 KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) -- Cecil Fielder had three hits and two r.b.i., giving him 103 for the season, and Eric King won for the first time since May 3 as Detroit won for the ninth time in 11 games. King (3-4) scattered five hits, struck out three and walked none in six innings to end a streak of four starts without a victory. Kansas City's George Brett had two singles to increase his career hit total to 2,957. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 19, 1992, on Page B00010 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Pirates Master Padres, at Last.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »