Advertisement By RICHARD SANDOMIR The ice skating arena where Jayne Torvill and Christopher Dean danced to a gold medal in the 1984 Winter Olympics has burned down. The bobsled and luge run is a sniper's perch for the Serbian paramilitary. The men's Alpine venue is a staging area for Serbian forces. The speed-skating oval is beyond repair. The broadcast center has been shelled. Eight years have passed since Sarajevo played host to the Olympics and ABC brought the Games into our homes. Now, ethnic hatreds among Serbs, Croats and Bosnian Muslims have made the city, the capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a brutal killing ground. Ironically, ABC's broadcast might not have come off then if not for the unity shown by the states and provinces of the now-shattered Yugoslavia. Advertisement "They needed to vote on everything," said Mike Pithey, ABC's senior production manager in Sarajevo. "One person saying no meant it wouldn't get done. We needed the votes of the six states and two provinces. Each province was fiercely proud of what it contributed." Advertisement Said Jim McKay, ABC's Olympics host: "It was a friendly place to us, but underneath, there were ancient hatreds. In one report I said it was a country with hundreds of churches and mosques. Now, I guess that's the problem." McKay will lend perspective to Sarajevo then and now in an essay that will conclude tomorrow's edition of "ABC's Wide World of Sports." McKay and others warmly recall Sarajevo in 1984 as a multiethnic city with Middle Eastern and European influences and Old World charm. "The newer part was a European industrial type of town, but the old town remained unchanged and you'd weave through little shops on narrow streets," said Dennis Lewin, ABC's senior vice president of production. "It was a marvelous experience." Despite Sarajevo's proximity to the Soviet Union, Lewin said: "You didn't feel the oppression you felt in other Eastern European states. The people seemed freer. It was a different kind of Communist state." Now, ABC's Sarajevo veterans can only recoil at the televised sight of the brutality and carnage of the warfare. "On the news, I saw a photographer struck down by a fusillade of bullets outside the Bosna Hotel, where we stayed," said Lewin.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Pithey, now an executive with Jack Nicklaus's television production company, added: "I watched guys on the balcony of my office in a hotel complex shooting across the patio. I sat with tears in my eyes. The Olympic village was being destroyed. I know that our interpreter's husband was killed." The fighting carries a particular poignancy for Draggan Mihailovich, a former ABC Olympics researcher whose parents are Serbian and whose aunts and uncles live in Belgrade. "My cousins are in hiding. A year ago, the army was trying to find people of age," said Mihailovich, now an Olympics producer for CBS Sports. "I don't know where they are." Mihailovich last traveled to Yugoslavia two years ago. "You sensed trouble was brewing but I thought it would be silly to have a civil war," he said. "But that weekend, soccer fans from Zagreb attacked fans from Belgrade." Advertisement Watching and reading about Sarajevo being destroyed and its citizens dying, Mihailovich wondered: "What will the Serbians do with Sarajevo once you've blown up every building and starved everybody to death?" He added: "Last night I was flipping trough some pictures and came across one with some dancers from the opening ceremonies. They had to be in their teens or early 20's. You don't know if they're even alive now." With some humanitarian relief coming to Sarajevo, the Sekenderjia sports hall, where medal ceremonies for the Winter Olympics were held, was the site for meetings between the United Nations High Commission for Refugees and local agencies about the distribution of French ration packs to Muslim refugees. "I'm angry that this is being done to a city I spent three years of my life going to," said Pithey, who was part of ABC's advance team that traveled frequently to Sarajevo before the Olympics. "To see these people killing each other. For what?" Added Mihailovich: "They're sowing the seeds for the next year. Vengeance has a strong aroma in the Balkans." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 3, 1992, on Page B00010 of the National edition with the headline: TV SPORTS; For Olympics Crew, a Flame Has Turned to Ashes.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »