The Turkish soccer federation’s new answer to fan violence — barring men from the games of teams punished for it — got its first test on Tuesday at a game between Fenerbahce and Manisaspor in Istanbul. The result was a crowd of 41,000 — all women or children under 12 — turning out to watch the teams play a 1-1 tie. Some lined up with babies in their arms to claim the free tickets the club passed out for the game. Many wore Fenerbahce’s colors, sang the club’s songs and loudly cheered their favorite players. None, thankfully, tore the stadium’s seats off their moorings and threw them at security guards or other fans.  The unique arrangement was the product of an ugly incident. Fenerbahce had originally been ordered to play two matches behind closed doors because of a pitch invasion during a friendly in July. That night, fans stormed the field in protest of possible sanctions after the club was pulled into Turkey’s match-fixing scandal; they vented their rage about banishment from the Champions League, possible relegation and the arrest of club officials by attacking security guards on the field and journalists who had written about the scandal. But instead of playing in dead-silent stadiums — an eerie setting that neither players nor fans wants — Turkish officials relaxed their punishment by voting to bar only men from the games. The hope was that the move would create a more peaceful, yet still festive, environment. “This really is a historic day,” Yasemin Mercil, a female member of Fenerbahce’s executive board, told reporters. “For the first time in the world, only women and children will watch a game. The women know all the chants. The same anthems, the same chants will be sung.” So what if the roar after Fenerbahce’s goal sounded like the moment the lights go down at a Justin Beiber concert. The players seemed to love it. They threw flowers into the stands before kickoff, and got a day off from the usual torrent of verbal abuse coming out of the stands. “This memory will stay with me forever,” Fenerbahce’s captain, Alex de Sousa, said. “It’s not always that you see so many women and children in one game.” Manisaspor midfielder Omer Aysan added: “It was such a fun and pleasant atmosphere.” No word on whether the women then went out for a few beers with their friends afterward, coming home an hour or two later than they told their spouses they’d be back, only to make a racket while leaving their shoes in the middle of the hall and their clothes in a pile on the bedroom floor instead of in the hamper WHERE THEY BELONG! But at least no one left any of the seats up in the stadium’s bathrooms. Goal, The New York Times soccer blog, will report on news and features from the world of soccer and around the Web.  Times editors and reporters will follow international tournaments and provide analysis of games. There will be interviews with players, coaches and notable soccer fans, as well as a weekly blog column by Red Bulls forward Jozy Altidore.  Readers can discuss Major League Soccer, foreign leagues and other issues with fellow soccer fans.
	 
			The Goal blog’s regular features, including live match analysis, player ratings from key matches, reader discussion, news and notes and more, can now be found on the soccer section front.Read more… 
			Crystal Palace won promotion to England’s Premier League on Monday. Now the club must retool under Manager Ian Holloway if it is to avoid relegation next season.Read more… 
			When congress opens, FIFA will be dealing with issues from President Sepp Blatter’s possible run for another term to accusations of vote-rigging among executive committee members.Read more… 
			Sacha Kljestan, who just won his second straight Belgian title with Anderlecht, could have a role to play for the United States in its exhibition against Belgium on Wednesday.Read more… 
			Alonso Hernandez, who plays in Mexico for Monterrey but has never represented the United States at any level, will get a chance to earn a place on the Under-20 World Cup team.Read more… Follow Advertisement