Advertisement By WILLIAM N. WALLACE and  Brown accomplished another sweep today at the Intercollegiate Rowing Association regatta as the freshman, second varsity and varsity eights all won. And rather easily. "Our best race of the year by far," said Raj Shah, a coxswain for the men's varsity eight. It was. With a time of 5 minutes 54 seconds for the 2,000-meter course on smooth Onondaga Lake, Brown won by 6.7 seconds, almost two lengths of the 60-foot shells, over second-place Princeton. Cornell was third followed by Navy, Temple and Boston University. Dartmouth was disqualified on the starting line but rowed the course anyway and finished between Navy and Temple. The disqualification was for being late to the starting area and being part of a premature start among four crews. Two strikes and out. Brown's undefeated streak reached 16 straight races for the varsity over two seasons with another test coming next Saturday at the national championships in Cincinnati. Advertisement The three Brown crews achieved something only one other crew program could claim: a sweep for freshman, second varsity and varsity events at both the Eastern Sprints and the Intercollegiate regatta. Brown won the Ten Eyck Trophy for most points in overall performance among eight events.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The national championship for lightweight crews was taken by Princeton, which beat Dartmouth by 1.2 seconds. Advertisement Women's varsity eights rowed at the Intercollegiate regatta for the first time and Brown, not to be outdone by the men, beat Cornell and Boston University. Since men's fours with and without coxswain plus freshman fours also went to Bears' crews, Brown won a total of seven championships or every event it entered. Harvard Keeps Upper Hand Against Yale GALES FERRY, Conn., June 4 -- Harvard defeated Yale today in the 129th rowing of their crew regatta, America's oldest intercollegiate sporting event. Yale's loss today, its 10th consecutive defeat to Harry Parker-coached Harvard crews, increased Parker's winning margin over Yale to 28 victories during his 32-year career with the Crimson. Yale never headed Harvard, but also never left off the pressure in this four-mile race contested on the Thames River. Harvard's lead was 7.5 seconds at the finish. Both crews broke the course record of 19 minutes 9.3 seconds set by Harvard last year. The Crimson's time today was 18:52.4. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 5, 1994, on Page 8008012 of the National edition with the headline: ROWING; Brown Crew Breezes And Sweep 3 Events.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »