Tim Tebow’s critics can’t blame him for this. He didn’t choose to go to Denver. He didn’t decide to be drafted in the first round — where many experts felt he didn’t come close to  belonging.  (Boomer Esiason said last month: “He can’t play. He can’t throw.”) Tebow couldn’t have wanted to be such a distraction. The new Broncos coach, John Fox, was left quite the gift by the departing Josh McDaniels. After losing to the Raiders on Monday in his Denver debut, Fox ignored a question about whether Tebow would replace Kyle Orton as the starter.  On Tuesday, Fox reiterated his support for Orton, and said he had not heard the chants of Broncos fans Â in the final minutes Monday night. The chants were for Tebow, and they were loud.  Mark Kiszla of The Denver Post started his column with this line: “You’re done, Kyle Orton.” This was after one game. Kiszla proceeded: It’s absolutely unfair to place all the blame on Orton for the bumbling, fumbling, not-ready-for-prime-time performance of the Broncos during Monday Night Football, when they lost 23-20 to Oakland. But Orton has lost all credibility with Broncomaniacs. And John Fox now finds himself in an unusually bad spot after only one loss as the coach in Denver. The boredom of his medieval, ball-control offense was only exceeded by its ineptitude. Worse, Fox is the guy who’s standing in the way of what the people want: Tim Tebow, America’s favorite back-up quarterback. Read the whole column for a sense of what John Elway,  Fox, Orton and the rest of the organization may have to deal with this season. Clark Judge of CBSSports.com said the Broncos were doing the right thing by Tebow and by the team in taking a patient approach. That’s not easy when you’re dealing with a first-round pick, and it’s more difficult when his name is Tim Tebow. But what is best for this guy is waiting for the right time, and the right time is not now. Tebow remains too unpolished and too unrefined for the pro game, and one bad experience could sabotage years of development. I know, John Fox didn’t give the people what they wanted Monday. But he’s doing something better. He’s giving Tim Tebow what he needs. Extra point For a pure football analysis of Tebow’s future, you could do a lot worse than read this recent article by Doug Farrar of Yahoo Sports.  The New York Times will report on the Giants and Jets throughout the season. You can also find links to coverage from around the league, tips for your fantasy football team and discussion with other football fans. 
			The content on the Fifth Down blog is moving to the pro football page on nytimes.com.Read more… 
			The Jets receiver became a critic of the game and its role in American society. But the decision to walk away was also personal.Read more… 
			John Idzik, the general manager of the Jets, will not retain Scott Cohen, the assistant general manager. Ari Nissim, another high-ranking executive, also will depart.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, answers questions from readers.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, will answer questions from readers.Read more… Follow Advertisement