Advertisement By GEORGE VECSEY STEFAN EDBERG took off the stoic persona he keeps in a jar by the door. He said he was proud of what he has done at the United States Open, and he used words like "unbelievable" and had every right to do that. He is a compulsive man, according to those who have had a glimpse of his private life, the kind of person who likes everything in order. He would prefer not to be playing matches at odd hours, sitting out rain delays. But the defending champion has done something in the last week that makes him talk about himself. Three times, against seeded players, he has come back from being down a break in the fifth set. The most recent one was yesterday, when he outlasted Michael Chang, a man not normally outlasted by anybody, 6-7 (3-7), 7-5, 7-6 (7-3), 5-7, 6-4. It took 5 hours 26 minutes, which is getting to be normal. Advertisement Edberg didn't used to love the Open, particularly since 1987 when the powers forced him and a fellow Swede, Mats Wilander, to move their semifinal up to 10 A.M. on Saturday to beat some heavy incoming weather. He and Wilander showed up a few minutes late, protest Swedish-style. Advertisement It has taken a while for the New York crowd to appreciate this fluid athlete with the normally enigmatic smile and the droning Swedish accent in British English that comes from living in the Kensington section of London. In the old days it was easy to parody him with his familiar phrase of "I had my chances. There is another tournament next week." But at this tournament, Stefan Edberg had acted as if there would never be another chance, never another tournament. He dug himself in and beat Richard Krajicek in the fifth set, and then the Open really bushwhacked him with the policy of separate night matches, to make more money. Edberg and Ivan Lendl wound up playing the last quarterfinal Thursday night, and the two gritty warriors battled until the rain made them go home. On Friday, they had to wait until the rain and the other matches cleared up, and then Edberg registered a mild protest that was truly McEnroevian by his standards. "This is something you cannot do in the future," Edberg said, then he nearly apologized. "I have to say that, because if it rains like it did yesterday, that means we would have -- could have been rained out yesterday. That means I could have played Friday, Saturday, Sunday, which is totally out of the question. As it turned out now, it is still O.K."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Get that? He let the doofuses off the hook. These are the same people who, to please their masters from CBS, annually force the women to play their final match whenever the first men's semifinal is over on Saturday. Wimbledon does not do that to its female stars, by the way. Edberg had won Wimbledon and last year he broke through at the raucous Open. Now he positively refuses to leave. Yesterday, Edberg just didn't have it, double faulting, 18 times in all, and showing irritation, which for him means an occasional mutter. After he had survived Chang, Edberg was immediately sunny. "I think I'll be O.K. tomorrow," he said. "It's really tough to play twice in a row, but now there's only one match to go." Advertisement After an hour of hot shower, massage and stretching, Edberg gave his post-match interview, and virtually bragged on himself. "Yeah, I mean, I think anybody has to be proud of what I have done so far, up till now, because I have been in a lot of trouble, but I have come out of it and I have been so strong when I really have to be strong," he said. "So I feel very good about myself at the moment. I am fighting for my life out there, but I am coming through." He admitted it was a turnaround to feel secure at this teeming stadium: "No, not many years ago I would never have guessed it. But I guess after last year I feel a lot better about this place, and it is a pretty nice court to play on when you find the momentum on it." He declined to say the consecutive days of playing had taken something out of him. "At least we get to play at 4 o'clock tomorrow," he said, "so I have got 24 hours to rest, so that is good." What about Jim Courier and Pete Sampras, battling out on the court? "At least they have two days off," Edberg said, "so they can wait a bit." He said it with a chuckle that sounded almost malicious. He is getting the knack of surviving in this tough town. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 13, 1992, on Page 8008001 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; Edberg Can Appreciate His Effort.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »