Advertisement By WILLIAM C. RHODEN SOME college programs are known as "clean" while others are branded as "dirty." But who makes the distinction? That's what Lamar Thomas wanted to know. Shortly after the Miami Hurricanes had beaten Virginia Tech, 43-23, in Blacksburg, Va., on Saturday, Thomas, a senior wide receiver, sat on a stool in the visitors' dressing room. He was partly savoring Miami's 25th straight victory, but also wondering about the program's image. The Hurricanes had issued a polite but thorough flogging, building a 41-3 lead before putting in second- and third-team players. No posturing. No taunting. Just business. Thomas had caught two touchdown passes. The first was a diving, finger-tip grab in the end zone. On the second, Thomas joked that he was open for so long that as he waited for the quarterback to spot him, "I just hung out in the end zone, talked to some of the students, waited for the bus." Advertisement The victory extended Miami's unbeaten streak to 25 games, the longest in the nation. Thomas recalled that the Hurricanes hadn't lost since Oct. 15, 1990, when they fell to Notre Dame in South Bend, Ind., in a series the media had taken to calling the matchup between the Catholics and the Convicts. Advertisement The Irish were the solid Catholics (whose best player, Raghib Ismail, just happened to be Muslim). The Hurricanes, with a checkered history of players in and out of trouble, were forever cast as the criminals. Notre Dame won, 29-20, in the last game the two schools would play. Notre Dame ended the rivalry, dropping Miami from future schedules. The rationale was that programs brought out the worst in each other and, unspoken, was the idea that the Hurricanes' image was a bit too coarse for Irish taste. So Thomas sat in a steamy locker room last Saturday, annoyed and wondering why two years later, Miami, the pre-eminent football program of the 1980's, was still living down an old image while Notre Dame could seemingly do no wrong. "I just don't think people respect our ability to play football, still in the past," he said. "We work hard as a team. We stay at school all summer working out. When you work that hard you earn the right to have fun." About the same time Miami was trampling Virginia Tech, a bizarre scene was unfolding in South Bend where Notre Dame was en route to a 42-16 victory over Brigham Young University. In the final minute of the game, Lou Holtz, the Irish coach, walked on the field and put Referee Thomas Thamert in a headlock. Holtz was protesting what he thought should have been a holding call and said he was showing Thamert how the Notre Dame player was being held.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The incident was largely dismissed -- if treated at all -- as old Lou just getting a little feisty, although one high-ranking National Football League official said that the same act in the N.F.L. could have cost Holtz as much as $10,000, at least. Holtz apologized, the refereee accepted. Football business as usual. But how would Holtz have responded had one of his players applied the headlock? What would have been the reaction had a Miami coach or player done the same thing? Particularly in big-time college athletics, where the nature of a hard and cold business is disguised by pomp and pagentry, there are clearly two standards for interpreting the same actions, one for those assigned the white hats and one for those in black hats. But as you travel from campus to campus, it becomes apparent that while the respective universities may be different, high-powered athletic programs are basically very similar. They recruit the same type of players -- more often oriented toward athletics than academics -- and then make the same intense demands on time and body. You either keep up or get out. Advertisement In 1990, Notre Dame, in somewhat of a stunning admission, revealed that five of its players had tested positive for steroid use in a period between 1987 and 1990. At Miami this year, there has been a scandal involving Pell Grants and a gun-possession charge against wide receiver Kevin Williams, who pleaded not guilty and is now in a court intervention program. And at Notre Dame, linebacker Demetrius DuBose was suspended for two games for accepting a loan and extra benefits from a booster in violation of N.C.A.A. rules. For all the talk about values, the primary concern of college coaches is keeping their job. If it takes castrating a bull in front of a team, do it. If it takes putting a headlock on a referee who missed a call, do it. Who coaches a coach? Who does Lou Holtz answer to? There is no conference, no commissioner, just the university president. Fortunately for Notre Dame, some programs get the benefit of the doubt. Others, like Miami, will only get the doubt. The Sports of The Times column yesterday, about the images projected by college football teams, misstated the religion of Raghib Ismail, a former star at Notre Dame. Although born into a Muslim family, he practices Christianity. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 29, 1992, on Page B00017 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; Call It The Lock Of the Irish.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »