Advertisement By FILIP BONDY For Mark Jackson, last night's Wheelchair Classic at Madison Square Garden was another precious evening on the town, with the taxi meter running. "I went out there on the court and thought about New York City," Jackson said. "I thought about not leaving. I thought about playing with Rolando Blackman, about driving to the basket and kicking it out to that kind of a great shooter. "That made me think about the old Knicks," Jackson said. "About Frazier and Monroe." Jackson's status with the Knicks, as usual, remains tenuous. A three-way deal that would have sent him to the Los Angeles Clippers is stalled, because of the refusal by Orlando center Stanley Roberts to permit the deal. If that exchange dies, which is always possible, another report is certain to take its place. Charles Smith, who would come to New York as part of the three-way trade, was at the Garden along with 16,625 fans, to get a good look at the place. He liked it, almost as much as Jackson. Smith said he would love to give Roberts a call, persuade him to go to Los Angeles and complete the trade. Don't Go Advertisement Others weren't so sure. Blackman said he didn't want Jackson to go, even if Doc Rivers would arrive. "I hope Mark stays," Blackman said. "It was a thrill seeing him play so well tonight." Advertisement Such distractions did not seem to affect Jackson on the court. He has had plenty of practice at this rumor business, and last night he finished with 20 points and 11 assists in the exhibition. He whirled about the Garden floor in peak form, flipping some around-the-back passes to ignite the crowd and then executing a final bounce dunk to end the contest. When Jackson was given a rest in the second period, the New York All-Stars faltered, eventually losing the no-defense exhibition, 152-137 to a team of National Basketball All-Stars. Playing for a Friend Most important, the game grossed about $300,000 from the gate and sponsorships, and will net more than $100,000 for the Wheelchair Charities. Players came, who did not have to come. The Garden closed off the mezzanine, then sold out all the other seats. Jackson, more than anything, was playing for his friend, Dave Snowden, who watched the game, courtside, in a wheelchair. Snowden was cut down in an accidental shooting in front of Mark Jackson's house in Queens two years ago. The bullet that hit his spine caused paralysis from the waist down, and there has been no improvement in his condition.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Snowden, who was the former business manager for Jackson, is hopeful that a new form of electrical stimulation therapy could be effective in improving his condition. The treatment, however, costs $1,000 a day, and can last from four to six months. "If it wasn't for Mark and his family, and for my family, I would have no hope," Snowden said yesterday. When Jackson was going through his roughest times with former General Manager Al Bianchi two seasons ago, he visited Snowden in the hospital and made some new friends. Advertisement "With all their problems, the patients were worried about my frame of mind," Jackson said. "It was a real experience. You have to count your blessings." So there was a sense of celebration last night, and a delicious preview of a National Basketball Association season that can never come too soon to New York. People watched, debated, projected. Kenny Anderson looked as silky as ever, until he launched some ugly jumpers. Derrick Coleman did not refuse Cotton Fitzsimmons's orders to report from the bench, but he did look more than a bit overweight. Impressive Launches Blackman's jumper was still a potent weapon. At 6 feet 6 inches, he was an impressive launching pad. Dikembe Mutombo actually made an effort on defense, blocking five shots, pulling down 18 rebounds, playing with fire in the paint. Kevin Willis had 37 points and 17 rebounds, Chamberlain-like numbers. Bernard King sat courtside, still nursing a left knee injury. He received the biggest pre-game ovation of all. He said he would not be ready for training camp, but hoped to be available by the start of the season. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 10, 1992, on Page B00014 of the National edition with the headline: BASKETBALL; Jackson Shifts Focus to a Good Cause.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »