Advertisement By JOSEPH SIANO and  The Indianapolis Motor Speedway and Indy-car racing's two main sanctioning groups have tentatively agreed on a series of rules changes for the Indianapolis 500 that are meant to slow the cars and reduce driver injuries. The rules, which are subject to final approval by the three groups involved, would apply to the 1993-95 Indy 500 races. They are part of an agreement between the speedway, the United States Auto Club, which runs the 500, and Championship Auto Racing Teams, which conducts the 15 other Indy-car races on the schedule. Tony George, president of the speedway, said here today that he was satisfied with the new rules. In this year's Indy 500 and the accompanying practice and qualifying runs, one driver was killed and 10 were injured, with most of the injuries being suffered by the drivers' feet and legs. The fastest qualifier, Roberto Guerrero, went 232.482 miles per hour and broke the qualifying record by more than 7 m.p.h. Many car owners, officials and drivers suggested it was time to slow the cars at the speedway and improve driver protection. Margin for Security Advertisement The rules require extra space in the nose of the cars to provide more protection for drivers' legs and feet. Derrick Walker, an Indy-car team owner and a member of CART's rules and technical committee, said the cars also will be strengthened over all to protect the drivers and will be required to have enough room in the cockpit to allow them to pull their knees up past the dashboard when a crash appears imminent. "It's fair to say this is the biggest change in the safety of the cars in the last 10 years," said Walker, who was preparing for the Indy-car race to be held here at New Hampshire International Speedway on Sunday. Advertisement Other new rules involve aerodynamic changes that should slow the cars slightly, Walker said. Rear wings, for example, will be no more than 12 inches from front edge to back, compared to the current 16 inches. The undersides of the cars will be modified to reduce the amount of downforce, which increases traction and allows them to turn faster. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 4, 1992, on Page 1001030 of the National edition with the headline: AUTO RACING; A Slower But Safer Indy 500.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »