Advertisement By ROBIN FINN and  There is stagnancy, in the unyielding form of Steffi Graf, at the pinnacle of women's tennis. But if today's double dose of upsets to the players seeded just behind Graf at the Lipton Championships are any indication, a significant shifting of the guard is going on among her understudies. This particular shift not only cost the Lipton its second- and third-seeded players in the quarterfinals, but it also spoiled the bid of the two-time defending champion, Arantxa Sanchez Vicario, to become the first three-time winner here and extended the astonishing title-less streak of Gabriela Sabatini to 31 tournaments. Sanchez Vicario was beaten by a strong server and a good friend, 32d-ranked Brenda Schultz, 1-6, 7-6 (8-6), 6-3, while Sabatini was overwhelmed by 17-year-old Lindsay Davenport, 6-2, 6-1. Right behind them came fourth-seeded Jana Novotna, a loser to Graf in last year's Wimbledon final and a loser today to Natalya Zvereva, 7-6 (7-5), 7-6, (7-4). That leaves Graf with an even weaker cast of challengers than she is used to; after a 6-1, 6-1 victory over Kimiko Date of Japan tonight, she will face Davenport in the semifinals. Chang Also Loses Advertisement Sanchez Vicario was not the only 1989 French Open and 1992 Lipton champion to fall today; on the men's side, sixth-seeded Michael Chang couldn't cope with the serve or acrobatics of 46th-ranked Patrick Rafter of Australia and was eliminated, 6-2, 6-7 (2-7), 6-2. The 21-year-old Rafter, as prone to showboat shot-making as he is to defying his ranking, had previously honed his credentials as an upset artist of top-10 proportions with defeats of Pete Sampras and Jim Courier. Advertisement By high noon, with a cloudless sky and impeccable playing conditions, both Sanchez Vicario and Sabatini, respectively the most tenacious and most talented of Graf's contemporaries, were busy being ambushed by two of the tallest women in tennis. Schultz, whose 115-mile-an-hour serve at last year's Wimbledon won her a spot in the Guiness Book of World Records but whose mental mettle had never quite packed the same punch as her serves, nullified five second-set match points to surprise Sanchez Vicario with her comeback. Can't Finish the Job "I had the match in my hands but it went away. I could not finish it up," said Sanchez Vicario, who found herself unable to attack the serve of her 6-foot-2-inch opponent the way she had in all five previous victories over Schultz. For a change, Schultz calmed down and became consistent with her first serve after a shaky first set, and once Schultz began connecting with that, Sanchez Vicario was left on the sorry defensive.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Schultz attributed today's breakthrough to Monday's entry in her diary. "I wrote down last night 10 times, 'O.K., I am going to beat her, I am better, I am better,' " said Schultz, who served 10 aces and saved 9 break points. "Actually, I wrote it 11 times, just to be sure." Perhaps Sabatini ought to take a page from Schultz's diary. Sabatini has not won anything since the 1992 Italian Open, and once again, her troubles could be traced to a shot in her repertory that seems to have become nearly nonexistent: her serve. Sabatini dropped her serve six times in the course of a lopsided drubbing that put her back into the oversized palm of the 6-2 Davenport. Reunited with Carlos Kirmayr, the coach generally credited with masterminding her sole grand slam triumph at the 1990 United States Open, Sabatini has continued to flounder. Today, against Davenport, a 13th-ranked Californian who took control from the first game, Sabatini played with a combination of timidity and lax marksmanship that was no match for Davenport's bold attack. "Nothing special happened," said Sabatini, who was indeed guilty of a pedestrian performance. "She just played a great match. She never slowed down." Davenport, who is balancing her sophomore season on the circuit with her senior year of high school, was brimming with self-assurance after the hourlong tour de force that evened her record against Sabatini to 2-2. "Today was a much different match from our others," she said. "I was obviously in control, dictated the points and really played pretty awesome to beat her." MATCH POINTS STEFAN EDBERG, seeded second, defeated PAUL HAARHUIS of the Netherlands, 7-6 (8-6), 6-1; fourth-seeded JIM COURIER eliminated another Dutchman, JAN SIEMERINK, 6-4, 6-1; top-seeded PETE SAMPRAS handled MARK WOODFORDE, 6-2, 6-2, and ANDRE AGASSI continued his comeback with a 6-4, 6-2 upset of CEDRIC PIOLINE of France. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 16, 1994, on Page B00017 of the National edition with the headline: TENNIS; Graf's Few Challengers Oblige Her at Lipton.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »