Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJULY 4, 2014
 Melky Cabrera could not corral Nick Punto’s double with one out in the 12th inning, sending the Oakland Athletics to a 1-0 victory over the Toronto Blue Jays on Friday. Derek Norris was walked by Chad Jenkins leading off the 12th inning. After Jed Lowrie lined out, Punto hit a slicing double down the left-field line. PADRES 2, GIANTS 0 Eric Stults pitched seven strong innings to win for the first time since May 10, and Alexi Amarista homered to lead San Diego to a win over visiting San Francisco. Stults, a left-hander who was winless in his past nine starts, held the Giants to four hits with six strikeouts and two walks. Advertisement BRAVES 5, DIAMONDBACKS 2 Freddie Freeman drove in two runs, Ervin Santana won his second straight start, and host Atlanta stretched its winning streak to eight games with a victory over Arizona. Advertisement The Braves have won 10 of 11 to move 10 games over .500 for the first time since April 29. They lead the National League East by one and a half games. CARDINALS 3, MARLINS 2 Lance Lynn bounced back from his worst start of the season with six and two-thirds scoreless innings, and St. Louis placed consecutive two-out doubles just out of right fielder Giancarlo Stanton’s reach in a three-run sixth of a victory over visiting Miami. REDS 4, BREWERS 2 Alfredo Simon moved into a tie for the N.L. lead with his 11th win, and Billy Hamilton homered as Cincinnati broke a three-game losing streak with a victory over visiting Milwaukee. Skip Schumaker and Joey Votto had run-scoring doubles for the Reds, who were coming off being swept in a three-game series at San Diego. RAYS 6, TIGERS 3 Evan Longoria homered, Ben Zobrist doubled twice and Tampa Bay beat host Detroit. The Rays had gone 19 straight games against the Tigers without scoring more than four runs, a streak that went back more than three years. Tampa Bay had seven extra-base hits, including a two-run triple by Sean Rodriguez in the sixth.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. DODGERS 9, ROCKIES 0 Clayton Kershaw nearly no-hit Colorado again, allowing only two singles over eight innings as visiting Los Angeles beat the Rockies. Kershaw extended his scoreless streak to 36 innings. CUBS 7, NATIONALS 2 Justin Ruggiano homered for the second straight game for visiting Chicago, which used another solid outing from Jason Hammel to beat Washington. Ruggiano connected for a solo shot against Tanner Roark in the third inning and then added a run-scoring single in the Cubs’ three-run ninth. He has six hits and seven runs batted in over his past two games. Advertisement PIRATES 8, PHILLIES 2 Andrew McCutchen went 4 for 5 and finished a home run short of a cycle, and Jordy Mercer drove in four runs to lead host Pittsburgh to a rout of Philadelphia. Mercer had two of the Pirates’ 13 hits, and each of Pittsburgh’s eight position players who started the game had at least one. WHITE SOX 7, MARINERS 1 Jose Abreu hit his 27th home run, Chris Sale struck out a season-high 12 in a complete game, and Chicago beat visiting Seattle. Sale allowed six hits and walked none in his fourth double-digit strikeout game of the season and the 14th of his career. ROYALS 7, INDIANS 1 Yordano Ventura pitched eight and a third innings, and Mike Moustakas hit a three-run homer to help Kansas City beat host Cleveland. Ventura, a rookie right-hander, blanked the Indians on four hits until Michael Brantley hit a leadoff homer in the ninth. A version of this article appears in print on July 5, 2014, on Page D7 of the New York edition with the headline: On One Run, Oakland Tops Toronto in 12.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »