Advertisement By WILLIAM N. WALLACE and  National Hockey League teams today were still scouting players on the eve of the annual entry draft for 17- and 18-year-olds. One target, Jeff O'Neill, said he still had several appointments today with club officials who were preparing for the draft. O'Neill, an 18-year-old center from the Guelph Storm of the Ontario Hockey League who is ranked the second best prospect by N.H.L.'s central scouting department, was prepared for more interviews before the 6 P.M. start of the draft at the Civic Center on Tuesday. "They ask what kind of a hockey player you are, what your goals are, your strengths and weaknesses, how you would describe yourself," O'Neill said. "You pretty much tell them what they want to hear. I tell them I'm a nice person and a hard-working guy. If you think you're a bit of an idiot, you certainly don't want to tell them that." Advertisement Not with a first-round draft selection and a contract worth half a million dollars in the offing. Like Jeff Frieson of Meadow Lake, Saskatchewan; Greg Crozier from Lawrence Academy in Massachusetts and goalie Jamie Storr of Brampton, Ontario, O'Neill had no clue as to which team would draft him and said he did not care. Advertisement One prospect who may care is Brett Lindros, the younger brother of Eric Lindros. Eric refused to sign with the Quebec Nordiques after being drafted No. 1 in 1991 and forced a trade to the Philadelphia Flyers. The younger Lindros was absent today but has said that if the Nordiques draft him he too will refuse to sign as long as Marcel Aubut is the president. Aubut was an antagonist in the heated 1991 debate with the Lindroses' parents, Carl and Bonnie. Brett Lindros is big like his brother, 6 feet 4 inches and 215 pounds, but he lacks Eric's scoring touch and was listed 13th by the scouting bureau in its final ranking.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The top-ranked player is Radek Bonk, and the Florida Panthers have the first selection. Bonk, from the Czech Republic, is a 6-3, 215-pound center who had 87 points in 76 games for the Las Vegas Thunder of the International Hockey League last season. Bill Torrey, who built the Islanders into Stanley Cup champions, is trying to do the same as president of the Panthers. Because it is their turn as an expansion team the Panthers have the first choice by N.H.L. design. The Anaheim Mighty Ducks will pick second and the Ottawa Senators third. The draft order otherwise will generally be in inverse order to the number of points each of the remaining 23 teams had in the regular season. The first two rounds will be on Tuesday night, the remaining nine on Wednesday. The draft will be open and free to the public. The Rangers will draft 26th and last, the Devils next-to-last and the Islanders 12th. These three all believe they can choose a rewarding player on the first round, although they won't say which one. "We're not looking for someone who's going to play in New York next season," said Larry Pleau, the assistant general manager of the Rangers. This is a draft of futures but it is important nevertheless. It was eight years ago that the Rangers drafted an obscure defenseman from a Connecticut prep school in the first round. He was Brian Leetch of Avon Old Farms. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 28, 1994, on Page B00009 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Calling All the Leetches: N.H.L. Draft Set to Begin.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »