Advertisement By ROBIN FINN and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES In something of a role reversal, Andre Agassi, the sprinter, struggled through five sets while Michael Chang, the marathon specialist, bolted through three, but their victories gave the United States a commanding 2-0 lead over Australia in the final round of Davis Cup competition. Agassi, who described himself as flu-ridden and rated his performance just shy of anemic, was the player who danced away from a five-set match with Richard Fromberg of Australia tonight with fists in the air and a happy curl on his lips. "The Andre Agassi of three years ago would have gotten beat pretty quickly out there tonight," Agassi said. "There's no question I could never say I won this with my tennis game; I wasn't playing or feeling as well as I would have wanted. I had to dig a little deeper to pull it out. It means more because of that." The confrontation was neither swift nor pretty, but Agassi endured, 4-6, 6-2, 4-6, 6-2, 6-4, victory against the 33d-ranked Fromberg at the Suncoast Dome. The crowd of 17,994 spectators inside this circular structure, which tilts atop its concrete moorings like a satellite dish, set a United States record for a Davis Cup event. Advertisement In the evening's second match, Chang encountered far less resistance from Darren Cahill, a competent serve-and-volleyer whose style was thoroughly undermined by Chang's bullet-like groundstrokes from the baseline, 6-2, 7-6, 6-0. Advertisement The singles victories put the doubles team of Jim Pugh, who has recovered from a stomach virus, and Rick Leach in position to clinch the series for the United States on Saturday when they face Pat Cash and John Fitzgerald. , who will face Pat Cash and John Fitzgerald. The United States last won the Davis Cup in 1982. Not since Australia captured the event in 1939 has a team recovered from a 2-0 deficit. And until he took a timeout to regroup after dropping the third set of his match, Agassi wasn't sure he was going to recover from a two-sets-to-one deficit. "I didn't think I took him lightly," said Agassi, who last summer apologized for a loss to Fromberg in Cincinnati by alluding to the difficulties of getting inspired in early-round matches with lesser-ranked opponents. Couldn't Find Groove  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Agassi said he never "found a groove" tonight, a plight he traced to uneasiness over his fitness and Fromberg's apparent willingness to exploit it. "The virus I had on Sunday took it's toll on me, and I was much weaker in the fifth set than I ever thought I'd be," Agassi said. Tonight, Fromberg counterpunched the Las Vegas, Nev., native into submission in the first and third sets and captured two consecutive games at love late in the fifth set as Agassi tried to close out the match. "In the fourth and fifth set, maybe he started to play a little more aggressively, started to get on top of my second serve when I missed my first, started hitting his backhand down the line, and that was the difference," said Fromberg, a 20-year-old Davis Cup rookie, whose 13-5 clay-court record for 1990 was the reason for his selection to his country's Davis Cup singles tandem ahead of the veterans Cash and Wally Masur. Certainly Agassi, despite his weakness, encountered a fiercer opponent than he had expected. "I anticipated being in a little more control than that," Agassi said. Agassi played unreliably right to the finish, dropping his serve at love as he attempted to close out the match ahead, 5-2, in the fifth set, then watched as Fromberg held at love to cut his edge to 5-4. Agassi had been less than capable in the past of extricating himself from difficulty in five-set matches: he took a 1-5 career record into this one. But he reasserted himself in the next game, and a brash forehand at set point brought him the victory. It was an exhaustive rather than an exhilarating victory for the world's fourth-ranked player, and was a grueling 3-hour-31-minute introduction for both fans and facility to the rigors of Davis Cup tennis atop a court composed of 80 tons of play-deadening red clay. AGASSI CHANGES HIS MIND Advertisement Before his match, Agassi announced that he had done yet another turnaround in the matter of the $6 million Grand Slam Cup, the mid-December event in Munich that guarantees its winner $2 million. Agassi, who had signed a contract to play, decided in early November to boycott the International Tennis Federation event, because he thought that it was unfair competition for the Association of Tennis Professionals Championship, which he captured earlier this month in Frankfurt. But faced with the prospect of legal action, a $20,000 fine and suspensions from the 1991 French Open and Wimbledon, Agassi said he would abide by his contract. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 1, 1990, on Page 1001045 of the National edition with the headline: TENNIS; Americans Grab 2-0 Lead in Davis Cup Final.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »