Advertisement By FILIP BONDY and  There is no island of Sardinia in the United States. No fences to separate rival factions in the stands of America's great stadiums. No alcohol bans for cities playing host to important sporting events. So Edgar Best, appointed yesterday as the senior vice president for security by organizers at World Cup USA, will have to decide, with great planning and caution, where to place potentially troublesome national soccer teams such as England, Germany and the Netherlands during the 1994 tournament in the United States. "It's very likely that we will find one location where we have more precautions," Best said, at a news conference in Manhattan to announce his appointment. "But we don't have a Siberia in the United States. We want hospitable-looking security. You will not see a significant amount of military on the streets. We police our country differently." Security Budgeting When the world's most ambitious monthlong sports tournament reaches American shores in the summer of 1994, organizers want everybody to know they will be ready. Alan Rothenberg, president of World Cup USA, said security would be "the single largest item in our budget," and its cost is certain to exceed the $80 million spent at the Los Angeles Olympic Games in 1984. Advertisement Best, a former special agent and later head of the Los Angeles division head for the Federal Bureau of Investigation, was also the director of security for the Los Angeles Olympic Organizing Committee. This time, he will have nine venues to worry about, and an entirely different problem: the possibility of imported, violent young toughs, looking for trouble. Advertisement Organizers expect nearly 1 million visitors, after about 15 percent of the tickets to matches are sold through FIFA, soccer's governing body, to fans abroad. England has been best known for its problems with rowdy crowds, and reminded the international community of that fact during riots in Sweden this summer at the European championships. Germany, which already has qualified as defending champion, is a mounting threat. Monitoring Undesireables In Sardinia during the last World Cup, British gang members fought through the night with the police and local Italian gangs at the train station in the center of town. In Milan, German fans smashed shop windows on one night's rampage. "We were told that, without question, these fans will come," Best said, of the unwanted gangs. "They'll come by charter aircraft."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Whether they are permitted inside the United States is another question. Best said he would begin intelligence gathering immediately, and that immigration laws could be used to deny entrance to certain undesirables with criminal histories. After 22 of the 24 teams are selected through qualifying matches that are going on now, World Cup organizers will have a large degree of flexibility in a 1993 draw when assigning teams to venues. The United States, as the host country, gets an automatic berth along with Germany. It could become a sort of lotto for the nine sites, which include Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J., -- and by extension all of metropolitan New York. Although only a tiny percentage of the visitors are expected to be dangerous, Best said he was taking no chances. "Special weapons and tactics teams will be a available in force," he said. "You won't see machine guns or swarming police, but behind the scenes will be a mobile force." Advertisement It is unlikely that New York, with its frenetic, chaotic qualities, will be asked to be host to the most volatile fans. But a city such as Dallas can be less certain. Best and Rothenberg said they also would consider recommending such tactics as city-wide alcohol bans or fences inside stadiums, but hoped to avoid them. Eye on England "Let's give soccer a fair shot," said Rothenberg, who is keeping a close eye on England's qualification battle. "There was more damage done by fans celebrating the Bulls' championship than by World Cup soccer fans last time. Nobody would say the N.B.A. has problems with hooliganism." Best said he would be ready for the unexpected, and that he had to guard against political terrorism as well as simple rowdiness. But, he said, he hoped that the charms of America would disarm even its most unruly visitors. "For a lot of them, it'll be their first visit to the United States," Best said. "It's conceivable they'd rather go out and see Disneyland than disrupt the local population." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 22, 1992, on Page B00016 of the National edition with the headline: SOCCER; Making the World Cup Free of Unruly Fans.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »