Advertisement  Reds 5, Pirates 2 CINCINNATI, July 9 (AP) -- Barry Larkin's two-run double broke an eighth-inning tie tonight and let the Cincinnati Reds extend their mastery of Pittsburgh with a 5-2 victory over the slumping Pirates. The Reds have won the last five games between the division leaders, including a four-game sweep in Pittsburgh last weekend, to take a 6-3 lead in the season series. Scott Bankhead (9-2) pitched out of a scoring threat in the eighth to get his team-high ninth victory, and Norm Charlton pitched the ninth for his 21st save. Cincinnati has won seven of eight over all and 12 of 16 to strengthen its six-week grip on first place in the National League West. Pittsburgh has lost six of eight. Advertisement Before the game, Reds reliever Rob Dibble dropped the appeal of his latest suspension and will sit out the four-game series. Dibble and outfielder Glenn Braggs were suspended for four games for charging on to the field to fight the Houston Astros on June 24. Braggs' suspension is on hold pending his appeal to the National League president, Bill White. Braves 2, Cubs 0 Advertisement CHICAGO (AP) -- Mark Lemke's two-run triple in the 12th inning broke a scoreless tie as Atlanta beat Chicago. David Justice walked leading off the 12th and Brian Hunter sacrificed him to second. Greg Olson also walked before Lemke lined a triple into the right-field corner off reliever Jim Bullinger (0-2). Expos 6, Giants 5  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -- Marquis Grissom scored on third baseman Matt Williams's error in the 12th inning as Montreal beat San Francisco, snapping the Giants' five-game winning streak. It was the Expos' seventh game in four days, following three consecutive doubleheaders in Los Angeles. Dodgers 2, Cardinals 1 LOS ANGELES (AP) -- Ramon Martinez blanked St. Louis on three hits over eight innings as the Dodgers beat Cardinals pitcher Bob Tewksbury (9-3). Martinez (5-6) limited the Cardinals to singles by Tim Jones in the fifth, Tom Pagnozzi in the seventh and Ray Lankford in the eighth. The Dodgers broke a scoreless tie in the sixth after Tewksbury had retired the first two batters. Brett Butler reached base with his 23d bunt single of the season and scored on singles by Lenny Harris and Eric Davis. The Dodgers got the winning run in the seventh when Dave Hansen singled, took third on a single by Mike Scioscia and scored when Felix Jose fumbled the ball. Padres 3, Phillies 1 SAN DIEGO (AP) -- Left-hander Jim Deshaies joined the Padres in time to end their five-game losing streak, and Dan Walters and Jerald Clark hit consecutive homers in the second inning as San Diego beat Philadelphia. Deshaies (1-0) had his contract purchased from Class AAA Las Vegas earlier in the day to fill in for the injured Dave Eiland. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 10, 1992, on Page B00009 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL: NATIONAL LEAGUE; Pirates Still Can't Solve Reds.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »