Advertisement By BARBARA LLOYD A 1,000-mile race in 1993 for kayakers and canoeists, many of whom were amateurs, marked the first running of the Finlandia Clean Water Challenge. But increased prize money, and a reputation that stands now on its own two feet, has drawn 20 highly competitive athletes to the second edition of what has become an annual event. The solo race, on a slightly revised course of 1,200 kilometers (744 miles) from Chicago to Manhattan, began Wednesday. A month later, on July 29, the racers are expected to make their final sprint to the finish, a relatively easy paddle down the Hudson River from Englewood Cliffs, N.J., to the World Financial Center in Manhattan. "It's a natural evolution," said Jeff Yeager, executive director of the American Canoe Association. "The caliber of athlete has moved up a notch, if not several. The bigger dogs around the world are going to show up and try to win some of that prize money." The event, organized by the canoe association and sponsored by Finlandia, the Finnish vodka producer, comes with $75,000 in prize money this year, almost double the 1993 amount. The winner receives $25,000. In addition, Finlandia is again donating $50,000 to a fund it has established for cleaning America's waterways. The Top Contenders Advertisement Among the top race contenders are Greg Barton, a four-time Olympic medalist in flat-water kayak events. Although the 34-year-old Barton has acquired most of his kayaking experience in 1,000-meter events, he has competed in some endurance competitions. They include the 30-mile Molokai Surf Ski Race off the Hawaiian Islands. (A surf ski is a kayak with a sealed hull, a design that prevents water from getting inside. Its paddler sits on a molded indentation in the kayak's deck.) Advertisement In the 1994 Molokai competition this spring, Barton placed 19th, well behind the first-place finish of Dean Gardiner, a 29-year-old paddler from Australia, who is in the Finlandia race as well. Gardiner is the world marathon surf ski champion. Barton said before the race that he expects to be on an even plane with Gardiner in the Finlandia. In the Molokai competition, Gardiner was able to win by surfing through ocean waves, said Barton. In the Finlandia race, the course includes 11 days of calm-water paddling through the Erie Canal.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "It will all depend on the Great Lakes," said Barton, referring to crossings along parts of Lake Michigan and Lake Erie. "If they kick up, there could be a benefit to surfing, but it wouldn't be as significant as Hawaii." At the start of racing Friday, Gardiner was in the lead three minutes ahead of Barton, who was second. Other competitors include Mike Lesnik, 52, of Helena, Mont., a kayaker who was second in the Finlandia last year, and Joe Glickman, of Brooklyn, a 34-year-old athlete who just completed a 3,000-mile kayak tour last weekend retracing much of the route of Lewis and Clark's expedition through the West. Also in the Finlandia are three paddlers from Russia. Unlike last year, when tandem kayaks and canoes competed, the roster this time is limited to solo entries. Each competitor can use up to two boats, a likely choice for those who prefer a heavier, more seaworthy craft for the lake passages, and a lighter, more sprightly boat for the flat-water areas. The longest race day, July 22, calls for a 42-mile paddle. "The toughest part of the race is having to continue day after day," Barton said, "especially if the competition is close. It will be hard paddling for four hours or so each day." The race calendar, which includes staying ashore each night, also calls for three days off along the way.  MAKING WAVES Seven corporate teams are planning to join forces with high-profile sailors next weekend to compete in the Wall Street Challenge, an annual regatta sailed in 12-Meter yachts off Newport, R.I. The three-day event, which begins Friday, benefits Shake-a-Leg, a national rehabilitation group for people with neurological impairments. The regatta winner last year was BILL KOCH, the yachtsman whose America   team defended the America's Cup in 1992. Although Koch does not plan to participate this year, he is expected to send several crewmembers from his all-women's 1995 America's Cup team. Also competing in the Wall Street Challenge is KEVIN MAHANEY, skipper for the PACT 95 America's Cup effort. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 3, 1994, on Page 8008009 of the National edition with the headline: KAYAKING AND CANOEING; Chicago to New York 744 Miles by Kayak.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »