Advertisement By JAIME DIAZ and  The Solheim Cup competition between America's top women stars and a European band of golfing vagabonds was supposed to be a rout. Incredibly, it was. Against all odds (actually, 6 to 1 in the British betting parlors), in the face of greater experience and presumably, ability, a European team on a mission for recognition won seven of 10 singles matches today to emphatically wrest the female version of the Ryder Cup away from a strangely overwhelmed United States team by the runaway score of 11 1/2 to 6 1/2. The victory comes at a time when the women's European golf tour has deteriorated to a struggling series of 12 geographically hopscotched tournaments with collective prize money of $2 million. As such, it is the most significant moment in the history of women's professional golf on this side of the Atlantic. Equals of Americans It will undoubtedly increase awareness and support of women's golf in Europe, and just as Europe's male stars gained worldwide respect by their 1985 Ryder Cup victory, so now will its top women be looked upon as the equals of America's top stars. Advertisement "It's incredible," said Europe's non-playing captain, Mickey Walker of England. "Nobody possibly envisioned what has happened here today. Against people that have accomplished more in the world of women's golf than anybody, the Europeans have gone out there and outplayed them totally." Advertisement The European team won against a veritable Dream Team that has compiled a collective 147 victories on the L.P.G.A. tour and more than $23 million in prize winnings. But what was truly astonishing was the ease with which the climactic day went in favor of the underdogs. All along, the Americans felt their superior depth in the 10 singles matches would be the key to an expected victory, but instead, on a cold, wet day that drew a well-bundled Scottish gallery of better than 8,000 to the Dalmahoy Golf and Country Club, the Europeans administered a series of pummelings that were shocking in their decisiveness. Focused Positive Energy Every European victory ended before the 18th hole. In the seven matches they won today, the Europeans were a collective 22 up. With little to gain and a great deal of face to lose, the Americans seemed paralyzed by Europe's steamroller of tightly focused positive energy. Beginning the day with a lead of 4 1/2 to 3 1/2 after two days of pairs competition, the Europeans needed 5 points in the 18-hole singles matches to win the cup that the Americans had taken in the first Solheim Cup in 1990. With a confidence-builder in mind, Walker sent his team's acknowledged leader, Laura Davies, out in the first match, and the towering Englishwoman delivered. Playing 16 holes in five under par, Davies beat Brandie Burton, 4 and 2. It left the 1987 United States Women's Open champion undefeated in her three cup matches, and set the tone Walker was seeking for the rest of the team.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "In this format, I think Laura is the best player in the world," said one of her countrywomen, Trish Johnson, who defeated Patty Sheehan, 2 and 1. "She means to us what Seve Ballesteros means to the men in Ryder Cup -- she is simply not going to lose. But that feeling happened to all of us today. We had nothing to lose, and we all started thinking we are as good as she is." With the first domino set in motion, Helen Alfredsson of Sweden toppled Danielle Ammaccapane, 4 and 3, and Johnson beat United States Open champion Sheehan. Although Americans Julie Inkster and Beth Daniel won their matches, the United States was vanquished when Pam Wright of Scotland trounced Hall of Famer Pat Bradley, 4 and 3, and, in the seventh match of the day, Catrin Nilsmark of Sweden defeated Meg Mallon, 3 and 2, to clinch the cup. Nilsmark Defeats Mallon The seventh match seemed to encapsulate the competition. Mallon, last year's United States Women's Open and L.P.G.A. Championship victor, played tentatively while Nilsmark, who has never won a tournament in four years on the women's European tour and was playing her first match of the Solheim Cup, freewheeled at an under-par pace that included an eagle 3 at the 435-yard par-5 11th hole. Advertisement On the final green, with Nilsmark only 15 feet away from a birdie, Mallon left the 18-foot putt she needed to keep the match alive short. When Nilsmark two-putted, the European team and supporters ran onto the green and embraced. "It was just a chance to beat the Americans, the best players in the world," said a jubilant Davies, explaining the Europeans' palpable desire. "They are still the best players in the world. But we are the best team in the world." In retrospect, the Europeans' collective length off the tee was well-suited to Dalmahoy's wet and wide fairways, as was their familiarity with slow putting surfaces. The Americans also hastened to point out that half of the European team members were regular competitors on the L.P.G.A. tour, where Davies, Alfredsson, the L.P.G.A.'s rookie of the year in 1992 and Florence Descampe of Belgium have had notable success. "They're great players, and I knew deep down we were going to have to play our best golf -- everyone of us -- to beat them," said Inkster. "But I didn't think we'd have any problems. Basically, we didn't play up to our capabilities." "I do believe that whatever the Americans say, the Europeans wanted to win more," said Walker, who hopes to return as captain when the 1994 Solheim Cup is played at The Greenbrier in White Sulfur Springs, W. Va. "I really think they thought they would win comfortably. I think they are in shock." Happily, the aftershocks will only help women's golf. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 5, 1992, on Page C00011 of the National edition with the headline: GOLF; In Year of the Woman, The Europeans Prevail.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »