Advertisement By RICHARD GOLDSTEINJULY 14, 2014
 Red Klotz was a 5-foot-7-inch guard on the 1948 Baltimore Bullets team that won the championship of the Basketball Association of America, the forerunner of the N.B.A. But for the next seven decades, his teams could be counted on to lose — and that they did, more than 14,000 times — to waves of laughter. Klotz, who died on Saturday at 93 in Margate, N.J., was the founder, owner and two-handed-set-shot artist for the Washington Generals, the Harlem Globetrotters’ foils, who owned the worst record in the history of sports. He created the Generals in 1952, naming them in honor of Dwight D. Eisenhower. Composed of former college players, his teams were good enough to provide competition and compliant enough to let themselves be victimized by the Globetrotters’ signature pranks. They had their pants pulled down on the court, endured basketballs wedged into the backs of their jerseys and stood by watching Marques Haynes in dizzying exhibitions of dribbling. “I tell my players that our first priority is always the laughter,” Klotz told Sports Illustrated in 1995. “We’re the straight men. Laurel had Hardy, Lewis had Martin, Costello had Abbott, and the Trotters have us.” Advertisement Klotz said that he had never been asked by Globetrotter management to lose deliberately. “We don’t turn the ball over,” he told The Kansas City Star in 2007. “We block out on rebounds. We move the ball around. We may not have as much talent as the world famous Globetrotters, but we don’t back down.” Advertisement Klotz’s teams, usually called the Washington Generals but also known as the New York Nationals, the New Jersey Reds, the Boston Shamrocks and, more recently, the World All-Stars, managed to beat the Globetrotters only once, when Klotz hit a set shot in the final seconds of a 1971 game in Tennessee. The fans were stunned. “They couldn’t believe the game was over,” Klotz was quoted by Ben Green in his book “Spinning the Globe.” “Beating the Globetrotters,” he once said, “is like shooting Santa Claus.” Louis Herman Klotz was born on Oct. 21, 1920, in Philadelphia. He led South Philadelphia High School to city championships in 1939 and ’40, played two seasons for Villanova and later played for the American Basketball League’s Philadelphia Sphas (the name was an acronym for the South Philadelphia Hebrew Association, a social organization that provided the team’s uniforms for a time) and for the champion Bullets of 1947-48. Klotz first faced the Globetrotters in 1949, when the Sphas beat them a couple of times during a two-week barnstorming tour. Abe Saperstein, the Globetrotters’ founder and owner, eventually asked Klotz to create a team to provide their nightly opposition. Klotz’s teams played against the Globetrotters on aircraft carriers; at Attica Correctional Facility in upstate New York; in Moscow, with the Soviet leader Nikita S. Khrushchev looking on; and in a leper colony in the Philippines. Their road show visited more than 100 countries. According to Klotz, his team beat the Globetrotters for the first time in a 1962 game in St. Joseph, Mich., so far as the official score book had it. But the scoreboard operator had somehow missed a few baskets the Generals made near the end, Klotz said, and the Globetrotters were given the victory.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. There was no doubt about the winning team the night of Jan. 5, 1971, when Klotz’s club played the Globetrotters at the University of Tennessee-Martin. Klotz told of hitting a two-handed set shot from 20 feet with seconds to go to give his team — called the New Jersey Reds at the time — a one-point lead. A shot by the Globetrotter star Meadowlark Lemon rimmed out, and Klotz dribbled the ball until the buzzer sounded in a 100-99 victory. Klotz is survived by his wife, Gloria, who said the cause of his death was cancer; his sons, Chuck, Glenn and Kenneth; his daughters, Ronee Groff, Kiki Smiley and Jody Ferrari; 12 grandchildren; and nine great-grandchildren. Advertisement Klotz played against the Globetrotters until he was in his 60s, when he was still seeing considerable minutes of action, according to John Ferrari, one of his sons-in-law and his organization’s general manager. Klotz coached his teams until 1995. He took pride in being an ambassador of American basketball through clinics he helped conduct in Europe, Africa and Asia. Ferrari said in an interview on Monday that “there will be no changes” in the running of the organization, which is privately held by the Klotz family. The World All-Stars are scheduled to face the Globetrotters in China later this month and to play against them on overseas and national tours in 2014-15, though the team’s name for the long run has yet to be determined. The Globetrotters’ chief executive, Kurt Schneider, said in a statement on Monday that Klotz was “as much a part of the Globetrotters’ legacy as anyone ever associated with the organization.” Klotz became the first non-Globetrotter to have a jersey retired by the team when it honored him in Philadelphia in 2011. His No. 3 joined the retired jerseys of Haynes (No. 20), Curly Neal (No. 22), Goose Tatum (No. 50), Meadowlark Lemon (No. 36) and Wilt Chamberlain (No. 13), who played for the Globetrotters in their 1958-59 season before beginning his storied N.B.A. career by joining the Philadelphia Warriors. In his late 80s, Klotz was still playing half-court pickup games several times a week. Lemon, one of the Globetrotters’ premier attractions for both his clowning and his basketball talent, spoke of Klotz when he told Sports Illustrated in 1995: “People used to come up to me all the time after games and say, ‘Hey, Meadow, that little old red-haired guy is wonderful.’ So if anybody calls Red a loser, they’re missing the whole point. When a Globetrotter game is over, folks never remember the final score. People remember the laughter.” A version of this article appears in print on July 16, 2014, on Page A21 of the New York edition with the headline: Red Klotz, Beloved Foil for Globetrotters, Dies at 93.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »