3:42 p.m. | Updated The Bears have announced they have waived Sam Hurd. So maybe the Chicago Bears need to do a little more checking into the backgrounds of their players before signing them to contracts? That’s the question being asked today in Chicago, in the wake of Bears receiver and special teams player Sam Hurd being arrested Wednesday on federal drug charges. This isn’t the first time the Bears have had to deal with a player in serious legal trouble, as former defensive tackle Tank Johnson had multiple run-ins with the law and faced illegal gun possession charges in 2006-7. The ongoing issues led to his eventual dismissal from the team. Hurd was charged Thursday with one count of conspiring to possess a half kilogram of cocaine with intent to distribute, after an undercover federal drug probe. Hurd is scheduled to be in court Friday in Chicago for a hearing, where his lawyer, Brett Greenfield said he expected his client would plead not guilty. The charges were filed in federal court in Dallas, meaning Hurd will be transferred from Chicago to Texas for future court proceedings. Hurd is in his first season with the Bears, after signing as a free agent to a $4.15 million, two-year deal. Bears Coach Lovie Smith said Thursday that the team had done a customary background check into Hurd and had not found anything amiss. “I don’t think there’s anything criminal out there with him that anyone would know,” Smith told The Chicago Tribune. “But just like I think I know most of you, you really don’t know what people do once you’re not with them. I know that anyone we bring through here, we’ve had an extensive search to find out everything, if there’s something out there, and that wasn’t the case. There was nothing we knew about Sam.”

Hurd was caught Wednesday evening, according to TheÂ Tribune, after meeting with a group for dinner to discuss his alleged plans to distribute 1,000 pounds of marijuana and 5 to 10 kilos of cocaine to “high-end clients” in Chicago. He allegedly told his dinner companions, who included an undercover federal agent and a government informant pretending to be suppliers, that he wanted a cellular phone from Mexico as he believed it could be used to evade federal law enforcement monitoring. Chicago Tribune The New York Times will report on the Giants and Jets throughout the season. You can also find links to coverage from around the league, tips for your fantasy football team and discussion with other football fans. 
			The content on the Fifth Down blog is moving to the pro football page on nytimes.com.Read more… 
			The Jets receiver became a critic of the game and its role in American society. But the decision to walk away was also personal.Read more… 
			John Idzik, the general manager of the Jets, will not retain Scott Cohen, the assistant general manager. Ari Nissim, another high-ranking executive, also will depart.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, answers questions from readers.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, will answer questions from readers.Read more… Follow Advertisement