Advertisement By ROBERT MCG. THOMAS JR. On the eve of Penn State's final season as an independent, the head football coach, Joe Paterno, wants you to know it won't be all that easy to get the minimum six victories it needs to claim its reserved Blockbuster Bowl berth. In New York yesterday to reassure local fans that Penn State will not be abandoning them when it joins the Big Ten next year, Paterno found himself addressing his immediate problems. For one thing, his starting quarterback, Kerry Collins, shattered the index finger of his throwing hand in a volleyball game just before reporting to preseason practice. But with junior John Sacca available as a capable replacement, that is the least of Paterno's problems. Of more concern are the arrests of three players on minor charges after a series of fights last month and the arrests yesterday of two players, including one involved in the previous incident, on burglary charges. Advertisement Paterno wouldn't discuss the latest incident, in which wide receivers Ricky Sayles and Bobby Engram were charged with stealing stereo equipment from a State College, Pa., apartment but later in the day he suspended both players indefinitely, "pending the final disposition of the charges against them." Paterno admitted that he had long been concerned about incidents of players at Penn State and elsewhere getting in trouble with the law. Advertisement "They don't seem to have a sense of themselves, and they're easily influenced by the wrong people," he said. Paterno said he was no longer as autocratic as he once was but dealt with incidents case by case. "In the old days they'd be gone," he said, suggesting that there was more than mellowness in his occasional leniency toward players who had grown up in the inner city where those without athletic ability have fewer chances for advancement.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "You don't want to throw them back to the inner cities," he said. However Paterno deals with the off-field cases, he insists that Penn State will still have its problems on the field as well. Four of its opponents -- Boston College, Notre Dame, Pitt and West Virginia -- will be playing Penn State for the last time, he noted, and all will be looking to give the Nittany Lions games to remember. That, of course, means that Penn State (whose 1992 games will be broadcast by WEVD radio) needs all the help it can get from its New York fans, who, Paterno is sure, will provide it. After all, as he took great pains to make clear to New Yorkers yesterday, Penn State is not abandoning its Eastern connections -- and its rich New Jersey recruiting ground. "We're not turning our backs on the East," he said. "We're bringing the Big Ten to the East." And while he has been rebuffed by Syracuse in his proposal for an annual clash at Giants Stadium, Paterno seems convinced that once Penn State begins Big Ten football competition next year, it will be only a matter of time before the Nittany Lions are virtual tenants of the stadium in East Rutherford, N.J. -- and that its basketball team, which begins Big Ten play this season, will be the darlings of Madison Square Garden. In the meantime, Paterno wants to dispel any notion that the year-old Big East football conference will be the only Division I-A game in town. "The East is big enough for two conferences," he said, savoring the prospect of a new interconference rivalry with an old foe, Rutgers, which plays Penn State in Giants Stadium on Oct. 3 (but will play the in State College in 1993 and 1994). We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 27, 1992, on Page B00010 of the National edition with the headline: New Problems for Paterno.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »