Advertisement By DAVE ANDERSON ONLY one month and one day after Mike Keenan held the Stanley Cup aloft, he put a dent in it. And in his credibility. Insisting he was a "free agent" because the Rangers "failed to honor the obligations of my contract," the only Ranger coach to kiss the Stanley Cup since 1940 kissed the franchise goodbye yesterday. The kiss was not returned. As a coach, Mike Keenan deserves to be hailed for having done a good job. As a man, he deserves good riddance. Look now for the Ranger lawyers to challenge Keenan's self-described free agency. In court, if necessary. Advertisement According to a Madison Square Garden statement, the Rangers were one day late in paying Keenan's playoff bonus. Keenan seemed to be using that as an excuse to leave, possibly to join the Detroit Red Wings as coach or general manager, if not both -- a deal he repeatedly denied despite persistent reports during the last week of the Stanley Cup final. Advertisement The night the Rangers won the cup, Keenan was asked again about the Detroit deal. "As I said yesterday and as I said three days ago," he insisted, "it's nonsense." Not everybody believed him. When the Rangers gathered two days later for their formal Stanley Cup photo, Bob Gutkowski, the president of the Garden, disclosed that he had alerted Commissioner Gary Bettman that if Keenan were to join the Red Wings, the National Hockey League should investigate. Keenan, after all, joined the Rangers a year ago for a five-year contract reportedly worth $5 million. But he has always been the restless type. Despite his Ranger contract, Keenan talked vaguely every so often during the season about his interest in "new challenges." He also talked mysteriously about having spurned a firm offer from another N.H.L. club a year ago in order to join the Rangers. In retrospect, was that offer from the Red Wings? And when the whispers about the Red Wings first surfaced, he issued what was known in the Nixon administration as a nondenial denial. He later hardened his denials. Another factor added credence to the Red Wing deal: Keenan and Neil Smith, the Rangers' general manager, had a tense, strained relationship.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Gutkowski's putting Commissioner Bettman on alert was important. If the Red Wings are eventually found to have tampered with Keenan, especially with a Stanley Cup-winning coach, the Rangers would deserve quality compensation in players, draft choices or cash, if not all three. But if Keenan could prove a breach of contract, he could slide into hockey's unemployment line for a few weeks or a few months, then join the Red Wings. Advertisement "I'm open to anything that might be out there in the N.H.L.," he said yesterday at his news conference in The Sports Network television offices in Toronto. "I'm on the open market and I'd like to coach in the N.H.L. again." In choreographing his departure, maybe Keenan knew he could never top what he accomplished here: winning the Stanley Cup in his only season as the Rangers' coach. In the four remaining seasons of his Ranger contract, anything less than winning the cup would be considered a failure. His reputation could only melt like so much ice. And with several aging players, maybe he thought the Rangers would not be able to win again next year. But a "new challenge" elsewhere would give him time to win. Keep in mind that the Red Wings, stunned by the San Jose Sharks in the recent playoffs, are what the Rangers were a year ago: a talented team that needs only another player or two to win the cup. Say this for Keenan: He's a good coach. Mark Messier has called him "the best coach I've ever played for," high praise considering how long Messier played for Glen Sather in the Edmonton Oilers' dynasty. In the Rangers' only season with Keenan behind their bench, the players responded to his hard, demanding style. They finished first over all and won the cup. But would they respond so obediently now that they have won it? And for Keenan, a "new challenge" would exist in Detroit. Of the six N.H.L. franchises before expansion nearly nearly three decades ago, the Red Wings, who last won the Stanley Cup in 1955, now have replaced the Rangers as the team that has endured the longest drought without champagne in hockey's silver punch bowl. As the Red Wings' coach, Mike Keenan would have the opportunity to be a savior in Detroit just as he was a savior here. At least for one month and one day. But with his machinations, Mike Keenan must now be considered a deserter. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 16, 1994, on Page 1001029 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; Good Job, But Good Riddance.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »