Advertisement  On the Giants' first day back at practice after flying home from Berlin late Sunday night, the story at the Meadowlands was about a running back who finally showed up and another who did not. While running back Jarrod Bunch, the team's last unsigned player, participated in some running drills after ending his holdout and signing a one-year contract earlier today, the Giants' star running back, Rodney Hampton, was absent. At first, nobody seemed to know why. "That's a good question," Coach Dan Reeves said when asked after practice about Hampton's whereabouts. "He was unexcused, and he'll be fined for missing meetings and missing practice. I have no idea. We tried to find him and we have not been able to do so." But according to Pat Hanlon, the Giants' director of public relations, Hampton said he was helping a friend or relative who had some trouble, and the telephone messages he left for the coaches explaining his absence were apparently not received. Hampton Has Emergency Advertisement "I had an emergency in my family, not my immediate family, that I felt needed my attention today," Hampton said in a statement released by the Giants tonight. "I left early this morning, and I left a message for Coach Reeves and Coach Sefcik this afternoon to tell them I wouldn't be at practice. Everything is O.K. now, and I will be at work tomorrow." George Sefcik is the team's running backs coach. Advertisement The 25-year-old Hampton is currently in the second year of a three-year, $6.9 million contract that makes him the Giants highest-paid player. He gained just 4 yards on 7 carries in the team's 28-20 preseason victory over San Diego Saturday in Berlin. In three preseason games, he has gained just 47 yards on 23 carries after rushing for more than 1,000 yards in each of the past three seasons. Hampton was with the team when the Giants arrived in New York after an eight-and-a-half-hour flight from Germany Sunday. The team reached its Meadowlands complex at about 9 P.M. Sunday night. "He was on the plane from Germany, so we didn't leave him there," Reeves said. "I'm sure there happens to be an honest explanation. But whenever a player's not here, I'm concerned." Bunch Finally Arrives  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. While Hampton failed to show, Bunch finally appeared for work after after agreeing to a one-year contract worth $473,000, or 110 percent of his salary last season. Bunch can now choose to become an unrestricted free agent next year. But the 6-foot-2-inch back, the team's first-round draft choice in 1991, said money was not a factor in his holdout. Instead, he said he wanted to come to camp at 100 percent after undergoing arthroscopic surgery on both of his knees during the off season. He also had surgery on a big toe. "Money was never a question," Bunch said after running wind sprints by himself for Reeves and then again with the team. "It's 110 percent of last year's salary. I never tried to get any more money. I just wanted to come in 100 percent. Last year, I felt I was at 65 percent. I did not want to play that way this year. And I did not want to come in and be placed on the physically unable to perform list or be released if I failed my physical." Working Hard The 26-year-old Bunch gained just 128 yards on 33 carries last season after rushing for 501 in 1992. He said he had been working hard on rehabilitating his knees in California during his holdout. "I feel pretty good condition-wise," said Bunch, who was winded after running his sprints. "Football-wise, the only way to be in shape is to be playing football." "It's nice to have him here in camp," Reeves said of Bunch. "I wish we could have had him here four or five weeks ago. He's got to work hard to catch up. This makes it more difficult for him. Jarrod played very little last year, and I have not had a good feel of how good a football player he is." EXTRA POINTS Advertisement Offensive tackle JUMBO ELLIOTT, who had his first preseason action in Berlin after being hampered by a broken ring finger on his left hand, got into a skirmish with backup defensive tackle STACEY DILLARD that had to be broken up by players and coaches. . . . Cornerback PHILLIPPI SPARKS has torn cartilage in his right knee. He will have arthroscopic surgery on it Tuesday and should be back in time for the season opener against Philadelphia, Sept. 4. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 16, 1994, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL; One Back Appears, Another Vanishes.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »