Advertisement  Red Sox 7, Athletics 3  OAKLAND, Calif., Sept. 5 (AP) -- John Valentin went 3 for 3 with two doubles and the Boston Red Sox sent the punchless Oakland Athletics to their season-high fifth straight loss, 7-3, yesterday. Since trading Jose Canseco on Monday night, the A's are 0-5 and have scored a total of seven runs. But Oakland managed to hold its 4 1/2-game lead in the American League West as the Minnesota Twins lost for the second straight day to the Blue Jays in Toronto. Valentin drove in two runs and scored twice. His two-run double with the bases loaded capped a three-run sixth inning that made it 5-2. Boston's John Dopson (7-7) pitched five and two-thirds innings and gave up two runs. Matt Young and Greg Harris completed the combined six-hitter. Dopson had gone nine starts since his last victory on July 11. He was 0-3 in that span. Advertisement Oakland's Ron Darling (12-9), who was 4-0 in his last eight starts, took the loss. He gave up five runs in five and two-thirds innings. Advertisement Valentin singled and eventually scored on Scott Cooper's groundout in the third. Troy Neel hit a two-run homer for Oakland in the fourth. In the fifth, the Red Sox tied it at 2-2 when Valentin doubled and later scored on Billy Hatcher's grounder. Bob Zupcic hit an r.b.i. single in the Boston sixth. In that inning, A's reliever Jeff Parrett inherited a bases-loaded, two-out jam and allowed Valentin to line a double down the third-base line. Blue Jays 7, Twins 3 TORONTO, Sept. 5 (AP) -- Joe Carter drove in his 100th run as Toronto again broke loose on a hit barrage against Minnesota. Carter, who has reached 100 runs batted in for six of his last seven seasons, singled home a run in the fourth. The Blue Jays hit five straight singles in the inning and scored five times. On Friday night, Toronto tied an American League record with 10 consecutive hits during an eight-run second inning. The Blue Jays went on to beat the Twins, 16-5, and today's victory gave the Amerian League East leaders 7 victories in 10 games. Juan Guzman (13-3) made his second start since coming off the disabled list, and gave up two runs in five innings. He allowed five hits, walked four and struck out nine. The Twins loaded the bases with two outs in the ninth before Duane Ward retired Kent Hrbek on a fly ball. John Smiley (14-7) was perfect through three innings, but the Blue Jays erupted in the fourth. He lasted five innings and gave up six runs on eight hits. Advertisement Devon White led off the fourth with an infield single and Roberto Alomar followed with a single to shallow left-center. Carter and Dave Winfield hit r.b.i. singles and Candy Maldonado singled to load the bases. After Kelly Gruber had a sacrifice fly and Pat Tabler singled, Pat Borders hit a two-run single for a 5-2 lead.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Twins scored in the first inning on Hrbek's double and in the third on Kirby Puckett's double. Indians 5, Mariners 4 CLEVELAND (AP) Albert Belle grounded an r.b.i. single past a drawn-in infield with one out in the ninth inning, giving Cleveland the victory over Seattle. Felix Fermin drew his fourth walk of the game with one out in the ninth against Russ Swan (3-10) and Carlos Baerga singled Fermin to third. Belle then greeted Mike Schooler with his third hit, a grounder to the right of shortstop Omar Vizquel. The hit gave Belle three r.b.i. in the game. Eric Plunk (6-3) worked a hitless ninth for Cleveland. Seattle starter Randy Johnson, unbeaten in his last six starts, lasted seven and two-thirds innings, allowing four runs and eight hits, striking out eight and walking seven. The Indians scored four runs in the fifth inning, when Johnson appeared distracted by a military jet doing acrobatic maneuvers above Cleveland Stadium. The jet was part of an air show being held at adjacent Burke Lakefront Airport. Cleveland loaded the bases on a walk, a single, a force out and another walk. Johnson stepped off the rubber momentarily as the jet roared by, and Baerga hit the next pitch for a two-run single. Belle then lined a two-run double down the left-field line that the Mariners argued was foul. The Mariners took a 2-0 lead on solo home runs in the second by Ken Griffey Jr., his 25th, and in the fifth by Dave Valle, his ninth. They tied it at 4-4 in the sixth on four consecutive walks -- two issued by starter Charles Nagy and two by Kevin Wickander -- and Jay Buhner's sacrifice fly against Power. Padres 5, Cubs 3 Advertisement CHICAGO, Sept. 5 (AP) -- Jerald Clark hit a two-run homer after Greg Maddux was ejected with two outs in the eighth inning today, lifting the San Diego Padres to a 5-3 victory over the Chicago Cubs. Maddux (16-11) was ejected by home plate umpire Ed Montague when he hit Dan Walters, who started for the mound but stopped. The confrontation came an inning after Jose Melendez threw over the head of Ryne Sandberg. Jeff Robinson relieved for the Cubs and immediately surrendered Clark's 10th home run, the Padres' third of the game. Earlier, Fred McGriff hit his National League-leading 33d with a man on and Tony Fernandez added a solo shot -- his first home run in 352 at-bats. It was the first time since Aug. 4, 1991, that Maddux has allowed two home runs in a game. He left after pitching seven and two-thirds innings and allowing three runs and six hits while walking three and striking out six. Melendez (6-7) worked one and one-third innings for the victory and Randy Myers pitched the ninth for his 31st save in 37 opportunities. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 6, 1992, on Page 8008002 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Bring Back Canseco! A's Lose 5th Straight.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »