Advertisement By WILLIAM C. RHODEN THE walk to Yankee Stadium took about 10 minutes: Down the 155th Street viaduct, over the blue Macombs Dam Bridge, over the Major Deegan Expressway, down and around the street leading to the employees' parking lot. This was yesterday morning and I was on the way to an impromptu meeting with Brian Smith, the Yankees' new director of community relations. Twelve days ago, it's doubtful that many people in the Bronx knew that the Yankees even had a community relations department. Then Richard Kraft, the department's former director, was quoted as speaking of "monkeys" hanging on basketball rims in the park adjacent to Yankee Stadium, and of "colored boys" losing their roots. Kraft resigned under pressure last Saturday -- although he denied making those statements -- and the job was rightfully given to Smith, his energetic assistant. Advertisement I put in a call to the Yankees on Thursday hoping to set up an interview with Smith, who turned 25 on June 19. I wanted to find out what plans he had for reaching out, connecting with the community. But the team's media relations director said that the new community relations director would not be communicating at this time. Advertisement They're protecting him. The man explained, "We don't want to throw him into  the fire." Sorry. He's already in the fire. I arrived at the Stadium around 8 o'clock and sat in the outside bleachers,  in back of the handball court next to the employees' entrance. What troubled me, more than anything Kraft said, was the reaction from various circles to Smith's being named to replace him. There were a number of comments to the effect that it was an "affirmative action" move, intended to appease black and Hispanic fans. A Steinbrenner ploy to blunt deep-rooted, long-standing anger directed at the Yankees for demonizing the community in order to extort favors from the city. Certainly the fact that Smith is African American wasn't lost on Steinbrenner, but neither were his credentials for the job. Smith was raised in Mount Vernon, N.Y., and played football at Mount Vernon  High School. He earned a scholarship to the University of Tulsa where he played  linebacker for four years and as a senior was a member of the 1991 team that defeated San Diego State in the Freedom Bowl.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Smith earned his undergraduate degree in four years and received his master's in sports management in 1992. When he returned to New York, Smith taught math and economics in a development program in the Bronx. Last April he took a gamble: he quit the teaching job and accepted an internship with the Yankees. In two months, the Yankees hired him full time for their marketing and  public relations department. Last October, they promoted him to assistant community relations director. On Saturday he replaced Kraft. Dave Rader, Tulsa's head football coach, isn't surprised by Smith's accomplishments. "He will get the job done," Rader said. "As a coach, Brian's the type of guy you want to point to. The focus is always on the kids who drop out, flunk out or don't make it. A kid like Brian is the essence of college football. He leaves Mount Vernon, comes to private school in Tulsa, Okla., doesn't really play a whole lot, gets his undergraduate degree in four years, stayed and got his graduate degree. Went home, beat the bushes, found a job, making the most of it. "All I can tell people who don't know him is to stand back and watch him go," Rader said. "We need to hear more about the Brian Smiths." Advertisement We will. But not now. Smith arrived at the stadium at 9:15. Neat, clean-cut. Surprised. He didn't  expect his day to begin with me. He politely declined my request for a formal interview. "I just want to get started, get organized, get things going," he said. Maybe down the road, when things get settled, we would talk. Smith looked at his watch and said, "I don't mean to brief with you, but I have to go." He disappeared into the employees' entrance. Brian Smith doesn't have an easy task. He must convince a community that someone at Yankee Stadium truly cares at a time when many are convinced that no  one does. Smith has the personality and energy to pull it off. Whether he'll have the  support and sincere backing of Steinbrenner -- beyond this highly publicized juncture -- is a different matter. By promoting Smith, the Yankees took a step toward making their community relations department more than a whistle stop on the ol' boys network. The next  step is letting him answer his own phone. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 30, 1994, on Page 1001029 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times;Redefining The Yankees' Community.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »