Illinois has found its new football coach, and the Illini are not going for the big-name splashy hire. Tim Beckman, now the former coach of Toledo, will be introduced by the universityÂ Friday afternoon at a news conferenceÂ in Champaign, according to The Chicago Tribune. Beckman, 49, will take overÂ immediately and will not coach Toledo against Air Force in the Military BowlÂ on Dec. 28 in Washington. Illinois (6-6) will play in the Kraft Fight Hunger Bowl against U.C.L.A. on Dec. 31 in San Francisco. Toledo announced Friday that offensive coordinator Matt Campbell, 32, wasÂ taking over as interim head coach. Toledo Athletic Director Mike O’Brien gave Beckman his blessing. “We wish Coach Beckman and his family the very best in their new life at the University of Illinois,” O’Brien said, in a statement posted to UTRockets.com. “Tim did an outstanding job in his three years with the Rockets. He built a solid foundation based on discipline and personal accountability, and he leaves our football program in very good shape for our next head coach.”

Illinois fired Ron Zook after the regular season ended. Zook had been at Illinois for seven years, compiling a 34-51 record. Athletic Director Mike Thomas was vocal about Illinois’ search, saying he wanted to find a coach who had Midwestern ties and understood the region. Beckman, who posted a 21-16 record in three years at Toledo, fits Thomas’ bill. Beckman is a native of Berea, Ohio, and helped rebuild the Rockets program with homegrown talent from theÂ Michigan-Ohio region. The Rockets played in the 2010 Pizza Bowl, their first postseason appearance since 2005. Before becoming Toledo’s coach, Beckman worked as an assistant under Jim Tressel at Ohio State and under Urban Meyer at Bowling Green. 
The Quad is a blog about the fierce competition and engrossing culture of college sports. From the Bowl Championship Series to March Madness, to news and features about one's alma mater or local collegiate team, The New York Times will take readers inside the world of collegiate athletics with interviews, insights and analysis from the tailgates to the locker room. 
			The Quad blog’s content moves to the college football and college basketball pages on nytimes.com. Read more… 
			Joe Mihalich, who has spent the past 15 seasons at Niagara, will replace the fired Mo Cassara. Read more… 
			There is a lot wrong with college basketball, but the N.C.A.A. still provides a lot of great opportunities for young athletes, as was evident again during this year’s tournament.Read more… 
			An analysis of the N.C.A.A. tournament championship game between Louisville and Michigan, based on concepts of sport psychology like big-game experience, leadership behind the bench, leadership on the court, error control and consistency.Read more… 
			Tim Pernetti, the former Rutgers athletic director, discussed the tension between running an athletic business inside an educational institution at a New York University Sports & Society program in November, saying the “human capital” in the department is what can be controlled.Read more… Follow Advertisement