Advertisement By JERE LONGMAN and  Four days earlier, the United States soccer team had left the Rose Bowl wrapped in the flag after a stunning 2-1 victory over Colombia. Today, the Americans left wrapped only in uncertainty. A victory or a draw against Romania would have guaranteed the Americans their first advance beyond the first round since the inaugural World Cup in 1930. What the United States received instead was a 1-0 defeat on a merciless afternoon, when the temperature hit 115 degrees on the stadium floor. All of a sudden, the second round is still highly likely for the Americans, but no longer guaranteed. Now it's time to read the fine print: With a draw against Switzerland worth 1 point, the victory over Colombia worth 3 points and the defeat to Romania worth none, the United States finished third in Group A with 4 points. Four of the the six third-place teams in the 24-nation field will advance to the 16-team second round, beginning next weekend. Essentially, the Americans now need two third-place teams to finish with fewer than 4 points. Advertisement A wild combination of improbable events would have to occur to send the Americans home after the first round. For example, at least four of the following five circumstances would have to occur. Advertisement *South Korea would have to beat defending champion Germany. *Cameroon, which lost by 4-0 to Russia in the 1990 World Cup, would have to win this time by three or more goals. *Saudi Arabia and Belgium would have to play to a tie. *Bulgaria would have to tie powerful, undefeated Argentina. *At least one game between Ireland-Norway and Italy-Mexico has to end in a draw in which each team scores at least two goals. Got all that? The good news is the Americans still have an excellent chance to make the second round. The bad news is their opponent is virtually certain to be Germany, the defending champion, in a game in Chicago, or Brazil, a perennial favorite, in a contest in Palo Alto, Calif. Which means the surge of soccer euphoria in this country is likely to be quickly derailed. "We probably have to play against one of the two best teams in the world," said United States defender Fernando Clavijo. "But in the World Cup, you have to sooner or later." Second Yellow Card for Harkes There is more bad news for the Americans. Midfielder John Harkes drew a yellow card from the referee, Mario Van Der Ende of the Netherlands, in the 41st minute for not lining up the requisite 10 yards from the ball on a free kick by Romania. This was Harkes's second yellow card in the tournament, which means that he has been declared ineligible for the first second-round match. The Americans are already missing the injured Claudio Reyna; without Harkes, the attack in midfield would be dangerously reduced. "This is a shock," said Harkes, who believed incorrectly that the yellow cards did not carry over to the next round. "I'm going to complain. The referee was in no position to give me a yellow card." Advertisement Apparently playing for a draw in the brutal heat, Romania packed its defense tight and patiently let the Americans advance while lying in wait for a chance to counterrattack.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In the 17th minute, Romania won a ball in the middle and stretched the American defense dangerously out of shape with three crisp passes that sprayed the ball from one side of the field to the other. Gheorghe Hagi, the talented, tempestuous Romanian midfielder, sent a pass down the left flank to Ilie Dumitrescu, who crossed to Florin Raducioiu above the penalty area. The Romanians thought the American goalkeeper, Tony Meola, was vulnerable from either side, and unlike Colombia, which stubbornly pressed forward down the middle of the field, Romania attacked repeatedly on the flanks. Meola Caught Leaning Meola seemed frozen by Raducioiu as he laid a perfect pass to defender Dan Petrescu, who sprinted upfield past Harkes into open space on the right edge of the penalty area. Harkes had no support from the American defense and Meola did a poor job of cutting down the angle as Petrescu hammered the ball inside the near post for the lone goal. Raducioiu "faked a cross and slid the ball off and caught Tony leaning out a little bit," said American midfielder Tab Ramos. "We showed our inexperience. We forgot that we're still the underdogs and that our first priority is to defend. We got caught going forward and being too aggressive." Ramos questioned whether the Americans should have attacked and left themselves vulnerable on defense, instead of hanging back like the Romanians and playing for a draw. Especially when the Romanians began shoehorning eight or nine players into its defensive wall. "It made it difficult to attack," Ramos said. "They were waiting for us and counterattacking. I don't know if we did the right thing. I know the crowd came wanting to see something, but let's play for a tie. If we had played for a tie, they would have done the same thing, and we'd be in the second round." The Americans kept attacking in the second half, essentially using four forwards in Ernie Stewart, Eric Wynalda, Roy Wegerle and Cobi Jones as they tried to even the score. Romania's defense was impenetrable, but the Americans got a flurry of corner kicks. Still, they could not convert one into a goal. 'We Don't Have to Hide' "I felt we could get a corner-kick goal, but we weren't quite able to do it," said Sigi Schmid, the American assistant coach. Advertisement He added: "The guys are a little down right now. They didn't get the result they wanted. This means we'll see a stronger team faster now, but we showed we can step on the field with anybody. We don't have to hide from anyone." That stronger team is certain to be Germany or Brazil. First, however, the Americans must qualify for the second round before they can prepare. "Our fate is not in our hands," Wynalda said. "That's what really bothers us." Sometimes the Americans appeared to be bothering themselves. Harkes and Marcelo Balboa had words after Harkes drew the yellow card. And Ramos left for the dressing room after being substituted for in the second half. The outlook for advancement is promising. But all that is certain now is the uncertainty. "Guys have got their calculators out, trying to figure out what's happening in the other groups, trying to figure out where we're going, if we're going," Meola said. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 27, 1994, on Page C00001 of the National edition with the headline: WORLD CUP '94; United States Falls to Earth but Not Out of the Tournament.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »