Advertisement Supported by Pirates 5, Mets 2 By Tim Rohan PITTSBURGH — Two months had passed since the Mets had traded Ike Davis, and the drama was gone. The team and the player had moved on; both seemed content. They had history — injuries, trade rumors, a competition with Lucas Duda, all of which had seemed so serious at the time — but time had smoothed the rough edges.  The Mets have more pressing issues now than who is playing first base, as evidenced by their 5-2 loss to the Pittsburgh Pirates on Sunday, which lost the Mets the series, three games to one, and dropped their record to 37-45.  Still, the series served as a reminder that Duda had quietly developed into a serviceable starting first baseman — he did his part Sunday, going 2 for 4 with a double — and that the Mets had not missed Davis much. The franchise will wait until the off-season, it seems, to thoroughly evaluate the trade of Davis. For now, at least, the Mets seem to have been correct in choosing Duda over him.  “We thought if he had the opportunity, he would run with it — and he has,” John Ricco, the Mets’ assistant general manager, said of Duda. “He’s got power. He’s a better hitter than I think people thought, average-wise, and it’s starting to creep up there. He’s having good at-bats. “We’re definitely happy.”  Even while playing for a losing team, Duda has separated himself statistically, batting .255 with 12 home runs and 41 runs batted in. His statistics are just a notch below those of the star first basemen Adrian Gonzalez (batting .253 with 13 home runs and 50 R.B.I.) and Albert Pujols (.261, 16, 49), with fewer at-bats. Duda is on pace for a career year, although he has also never been consistently given this much playing time.  Davis, batting .245 with five home runs and 26 R.B.I., has been platooning with the right-handed Gaby Sanchez for Pittsburgh. Mets Manager Terry Collins said Duda had been put at ease by playing every day at first base. When the Mets had Davis at first, and Duda was forced to play in the outfield, Collins said Duda was affected when he made a mistake in the field. If he allowed one run to score, he felt he needed to drive in two.  “He’s much more relaxed, much more comfortable, much more confident,” Collins said.  In some ways, the trade has also worked out well for Davis. In Pittsburgh, he was welcomed with open arms. On Sunday, one fan held a sign that read, “I like Ike!” Davis has also been freed from receiving hitting tips from New Yorkers while picking up his morning coffee. Still, even if the Mets chose correctly, fans may always be somewhat fascinated by Davis, a former first-round draft pick.  In an interview during this series on the sports radio station WFAN, Davis made a comment that, two months ago, might have started a controversy or offended the Mets.  “There’s definitely a winning mentality that I’ve never been with,” he said of the Pirates when asked to compare the two teams, “just because, you know, I’ve never made the playoffs with the Mets or experienced anything remotely close to it.” The Pirates demonstrated that mentality over the four-game series. On Thursday, they made Daisuke Matsuzaka pay for one particularly poor pitch, which led to a decisive three-run homer. On Friday, they gutted out a one-run win in 11 innings. And on Sunday, their starter, Edinson Volquez, elevated his play whenever the Mets reached base.  The Mets stranded 11 runners, and went 2 for 15 with runners in scoring position. They had nine at-bats with a runner on third base, and only once did the runner score. In those situations, the Mets went 0 for 8, with one intentional walk, the only run scoring on a groundout by Chris Young in the ninth. By then, the game had been decided. The Pirates tattooed Bartolo Colon for five runs in six innings. Afterward, speaking through an interpreter, Colon said the Pirates had hit him hard because this was their second time facing him. He would not change his approach, he said.  Davis led the charge, going 2 for 4 and singling in the Pirates’ first two runs. As he stood at first after that hit, he betrayed no emotion. If he held any animosity for his former team, if he had particularly enjoyed that moment, he kept it all to himself.  INSIDE PITCH The Mets appeared optimistic that David Wright, found to have a bruised left rotator cuff, would avoid the 15-day disabled list. Wright was expected to be re-evaluated by doctors on Monday before a decision is made.  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS