When he was winning in dramatic fashion, Tim Tebow was often criticized for his poor statistical performances.Â In defeat on Sunday, he played one of his better games, statistically and otherwise, with 2 touchdowns and 93 yards on the ground, and 194 passing yards. The ESPN analyst Trent Dilfer said Tebow made encouraging strides, describing his passing in the first half as his best showing of the season. In the ESPN Total Quarterback Rating, which has not been kind to Tebow and which has a 0-to-100 scale, he had a 69.5 rating through the first 51 minutes, a very high score for him, then tailed off to a 3.9 for the final nine minutes — in a reversal of his pattern of poor starts and sizzling finishes during his victory march. At Advanced NFL Stats, Tebow ranked 12th among quarterbacks this week  in Win Probability Added.  At Pro-Football-Reference.com, his Â yards per pass attempt (8.82) was his second highestÂ of the season. The Patriots’ Tom Brady and Bill Belichick sought out Tebow after the game and gave him encouragement, according to Tebow.

Dave Krieger of The Denver Post said Belichick and the Patriots deserved credit for displaying a closer’s mentality, having learned from other teams’ failures in the fourth quarter against the Broncos: It’s not often a team up 11 points in the fourth quarter will run a hurryup offense, but that’s what the Patriots did. They had seen other Broncos opponents try to sit on fourth-quarter leads. They had seen where it got them. Belichick never took his foot off the gas. Extra point If you missed it, “Saturday Night Live” scored with a spoof:  The New York Times will report on the Giants and Jets throughout the season. You can also find links to coverage from around the league, tips for your fantasy football team and discussion with other football fans. 
			The content on the Fifth Down blog is moving to the pro football page on nytimes.com.Read more… 
			The Jets receiver became a critic of the game and its role in American society. But the decision to walk away was also personal.Read more… 
			John Idzik, the general manager of the Jets, will not retain Scott Cohen, the assistant general manager. Ari Nissim, another high-ranking executive, also will depart.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, answers questions from readers.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, will answer questions from readers.Read more… Follow Advertisement