Advertisement Supported by Orioles 3, Yankees 1, Four and a Half Innings By Zach Schonbrun BALTIMORE — Rain cut short the first-half finale at Camden Yards on Sunday night, sending the Yankees sputtering into the break with an even record in the standings, at 47-47, for the first time since 2007. The Yankees fell, 3-1, to the Baltimore Orioles in a contest halted after four and a half innings — and a delay of 2 hours 22 minutes — by rain and lightning, lending an anticlimactic aura to the nationally televised game. The Yankees cannot avoid looking a great deal like a downhill racer wobbling on one ski, veering toward disaster, as they enter the All-Star Game break having lost four of six to finish a long trip, and having also lost the ace Masahiro Tanaka to an elbow injury along the way. Tanaka was supposed to start Sunday’s game. Instead, he was back in New York treating a partial tear and inflammation in an elbow ligament that will sideline him for at least six weeks.  With four of their five original starters out with injury, the Yankees have taken the form of a carnival booth to filling the rotation: Step right up and have a try. A rookie starting pitcher has taken the mound 45 times out of 94 games, a franchise record before the All-Star break. The results have been mixed, from very good to very bad, but it is a dichotomy the Yankees have to stomach for now. On Saturday, Shane Greene pitched seven and a third shutout innings in his second career start. On Sunday, the Yankees turned to Chase Whitley, who had a 14.81 earned run average in his three previous starts, all losses, to take the mound. Not all too surprisingly, the Orioles hit Whitley hard. Baltimore, one of the American League’s hottest teams, is a good offensive team, heating up with the summertime thermometer. And opponents were batting close to .500 against Whitley in his previous four outings.  Whitley did manage to retire five of the first six batters he faced, and he worked out of a bases-loaded jam in the second without allowing a run. But Baltimore eventually broke through in a three-run fourth. The hits, hard hits, piled up quickly. Chris Davis golfed a low sinker into the stands in left for a two-run homer. J. J. Hardy then doubled, Manny Machado hit a hard groundout, Jonathan Schoop singled, and Whitley was finished before getting out of the inning. “He’s a strong guy,” Whitley said of Davis. “You’ve got to tip your hat. I got him once and he got me.” Manager Joe Girardi was looking at cobbling the rest of the game together with the bullpen, until the rains came in the fifth, forewarned by gusting winds that sent napkins and wrappers flying all over the field, and caused a routine pop-up by Kelly Johnson to knuckle so aggressively in the outfield that Nick Markakis wound up sprawling out to catch it.  The Yankees jumped on the board on the fourth pitch of the game from the right-hander Kevin Gausman, which was transplanted over the wall in right by Brett Gardner, one of the few bright spots in the Yankees’ lineup so far this season. Gardner’s home run gave him nine, a new career high, and tied him with Carlos Beltran for the third-most on the team. It also gave the Yankees their 80th home run of the first half, just ahead of the Seattle Mariners for ninth place in the A.L. The Yankees are 12th in on-base percentage and on-base-plus slugging percentage and 13th in runs scored. Before the game, Girardi acknowledged how fortunate the team was to be in the A.L. East, which has finally weakened after more than a decade as one of baseball’s strongest divisions. With a .500 record, the Yankees are still only five games back of the division-leading Orioles.    “With everything we’ve had go wrong, we’re still in it,” he said after the loss. “We’ve got to take advantage of that when we get back to work on Friday.”  The team’s reliance on rookie pitchers comes fraught with obvious concern, however. Girardi described two issues that routinely confront rookie pitchers as they progress throughout the season. There is a physical toll — with more stressful innings and a longer season that extends beyond the minor league limit — as well as a mental one. “Dealing with the ups and downs and wondering, ‘You know I had a bad start, do I need to look over my shoulder?’ ” Girardi said before the game. “You do that in Class AA or Class AAA, you’re going back out there in five days. I think that’s probably the mental approach — that someone is going to take my spot.” Greene, Whitley and a host of others are whom the Yankees will be relying on when they return from a break that started late and does not offer much relief anyway. More concerns and questions lie in wait for the team when it returns Friday. INSIDE PITCH Outfielder Jacoby Ellsbury was given the night off from the field, acting as the designated hitter Sunday. Girardi said Ellsbury needed the additional rest day before the break. “He’s played every day,” Girardi said. “He’s maybe just kind of beat up.” ... David Phelps, Brandon MCCarthy and Hiroki Kuroda will start the Yankees’ first series, against the Cincinnati Reds, after the break.    Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS