Advertisement  Special to The New York Times When Phil Simms's phone rang on Thursday afternoon, the last person he expected it to be was National Football League Commissioner Paul Tagliabue. Tagliabue, after all, had made some comments recently regarding the salary cap and the end of Simms' career as Giants quarterback that greatly angered Simms. But there's nothing like a little communication to straighten out a problem.  Simms said he and Tagliabue "buried the hatchet" during the lengthy telephone conversation. "Let me just say this," Simms said. "I have regretted the harshness of my statement. I did have the opportunity to talk with him and it was a good conversation. Today I feel much better about everything. We buried the hatchet. He told me a lot of things about himself and I feel  better about him.I really appreciated the fact that he took the time to call and explain himself. It was a nice conversation. It's over." Simms, 38, drawing a base salary of $2.25 million and coming off shoulder surgery, was released by the Giants in mid-June and the team said that the league's salary cap was a big reason why. If Simms could not play because of his shoulder, his salary would have still  counted against the cap and the Giants did not want to take the risk considering the amount of money he made. During a conference call with reporters last week, Tagliabue disputed that fact and hinted that Simms, now a football analyst for ESPN, made the move to television because the quarterback figured he could no longer play. Simms responded angrily, saying among other things that that belief was "one of the stupidest things I've ever heard." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 30, 1994, on Page 1001032 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL;Tagliabue, Simms Make Up.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »