Advertisement 
On Pro Basketball  By                     
 HARVEY ARATON
 
JULY 14, 2014
 Carmelo Anthony declared himself a “Knick at heart” a day after LeBron James said, “I’m coming home.” It was a copycat narrative only in programmed exclamation, not so much in practical execution. Beyond the relative quality of these talented individuals with very different career credentials, there is also a clear distinction in how they have balanced the art of playing a team sport with the equally tricky but more desensitized business of professional basketball. In accepting the most lucrative offer on the free-agent table, Anthony quickly embraced the role of loyalty to the Knicks organization and New York, the city of his birth. In leaving Miami and his fading co-star Dwyane Wade after two championships and four consecutive runs to the N.B.A. finals, James left no doubt that self-interest will invariably trump the needs of any friend, franchise, fan or frontier. Advertisement But the great news for the Cleveland Cavaliers is that for however long the Akron King remains committed to them and to his native northeast Ohio the second time around, what is most important to him will likewise be to the maximum benefit of those who play alongside him. Advertisement James’s brand of collectivism is far more valuable than the typically overstated fealty of a good company man. James may be liable to switch uniforms faster than a Marvel superhero, but no matter which one he wears, the indisputable claim he can make — and Anthony cannot — is that he, the consensus best of the best, is also an ultimate team player. “That’s what he knows because that was all he ever heard when he was a kid,” said Dru Joyce II, who coached James on youth teams and for two years at St. Vincent-St. Mary High School. “He’s always understood that once you step on the court, it’s about five guys working together as one.” Outside the lines, James has evolved to represent the essence of the athlete increasingly empowered, the polar opposite of those Red Auerbach would bully in basketball’s dinosaur age with meager salary offers or banishment from Boston to cities where essential playoff revenue might amount to nothing. Now James lets his suitors know where he will play by public decree. The latest one on Friday posted on the website of Sports Illustrated, while well-received compared to the 2010 Decision on ESPN, was still another declaration of tactical independence. Yes, James’s basketball-specific earnings are constrained by a salary cap, though one collectively bargained by the players with the implied admission that the conceptual worth of the 1 percent — James, Anthony and the like — is indelibly linked to being part of a greater whole. Given those boundaries, a person close to James, 29, confided on Monday that his return to Cleveland was, in part, based on less-material gratifications, specifically the challenge of helping to mentor younger teammates into becoming championship-ready players. Just the same, the deal with the Cavaliers is for two years with a reported one-year opt-out to allow James’s earning potential to grow based on projected increases in league television revenue. And, no doubt, to make sure that Dan Gilbert, the chastened and forgiven owner, does not count pennies when the opportunity to trade some youth for the veteran upgrade such as Kevin Love inevitably arises. Advertisement In making his announcement, James wrote: “I always believed that I’d return to Cleveland and finish my career there. I just didn’t know when.” All well and good, but it would not have been now and perhaps would have been never had the Cavaliers not secured three of the past four No. 1 draft picks. Without Gilbert’s run of almost unfathomable draft lottery luck, home and heart would not have made the same sentence.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Had the Lakers not sabotaged their reconstruction by sinking $48.5 million into an aging and injured Kobe Bryant, it’s possible that James would have considered bringing along a special friend with him to Los Angeles to begin a new chapter in that storied franchise’s history. Bryant and others laughed off Jurgen Klinsmann’s reasoned criticism of the Bryant deal as N.B.A ignorant, even un-American, arguing that it was a well-earned career achievement reward. We’ll see what loyalty produces when Bryant and what’s left of the Lakers are getting run out of arenas all over the West come next season. Bryant at least has five championships won with Phil Jackson as his coach to soothe whatever regrets he may come to for failing to strike a healthier balance between business and basketball. In New York, Anthony has committed to a company still suffering the fallout from his original me-first demands in 2011, forcing the Knicks to unload a trove of assets that continue to obstruct meaningful roster upgrades. Jackson, as the Knicks’ president, calculated that building around Anthony was a better bet than starting over from scratch. Anthony is a nice enough guy, less imperious and hard on teammates than Bryant. That said, it remains to be seen which star-level talent will be as eager to play alongside a reputed ball-stopper, as Wade and Chris Bosh were with James in Miami, which James managed to leave without public evidence of acrimony. “I think that people who have seen what you put into it, how hard you work, what you were willing to give, can appreciate your decision,” Joyce said. Still coaching in Akron, he has already heard the question of how Kyrie Irving, a point guard used to having the ball in his hands, will fare with James. But in a telephone interview, Joyce, whose son of the same name was the point guard on James’s youth and high school teams, said, in so many words, are you kidding? “LeBron will do what he’s done everywhere, which is whatever needs to be done,” he said, explaining that James’s understanding of the game traces to his Amateur Athletic Union experiences, which were far from what Joyce called “showcases of necessary evil to get the attention of college coaches.” His teammates, Joyce said, happened to be boys from the Akron neighborhood “who were his brothers, kids he cared about.” Advertisement The cold business of basketball aside, that remains the heart of the matter, in whichever city James calls home. A version of this article appears in print on July 15, 2014, on Page B11 of the New York edition with the headline: Beyond Looking Out for No. 1, Always Putting the Team First.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »