Advertisement By MURRAY CHASS Doesn't anybody here want to replace Darryl Strawberry? Vince Coleman, whom the Mets paid $11.95 million, said last week he wasn't coming here to replace Strawberry. Yesterday, Hubie Brooks, who cost the Mets Bob Ojeda, said he won't replace Strawberry. "That's definitely a no-no," Brooks said when the idea was raised. "I'm coming there to try to do a job. What Buddy needs me to do, what he tells me to do, I'll bust my butt to get it done. I think I can do what I've always done." Brooks does not produce runs as abundantly as Strawberry, but he does drive in runs. Last season, with Los Angeles, he drove in 91 runs, only 4 behind Eddie Murray's team-leading 95. He was one of 14 National League hitters with 90 or more runs batted in. Yet, he quickly declined the role of Strawberry's replacement. "That's not what the deal is," he said in a telephone conference call from Los Angeles. "I'm not replacing Darryl at all. Whether you come there to replace somebody or not, people have a tendency to think that. If you say you're not going to, you can get that monkey off your back before you start. People can say it, but you know in your mind you're not trying to duplicate what anybody has done." Advertisement The other point Brooks tried hard to make was that he was not upset at returning to the Mets, where he began his major league career in 1980. He was, however, not entirely convincing. He did, on the other hand, readily acknowledge that he was disappointed that the Dodgers traded him. Would Have Signed Elsewhere Advertisement Brooks liked the idea of playing at home, and that was the primary reason he signed with the Dodgers as a free agent a year ago. He could have had more money than the $6 million over three years the Dodgers gave him if he had decided to play somewhere else. "If I had known a year ago the events of the weekend would take place, I would have signed elsewhere," said the 34-year-old Brooks. "I could've gone to Toronto, Atlanta, Pittsburgh or Detroit, but the money was not the most important thing. It never has been. Being happy is. There's not a price on happiness." Happy or not, Brooks said: "By no means am I in a state of shock or devastated by all this. There seems to be the impression that I'm upset or I'm broken down by this, but I'm not. It's better to be in New York than other places. I'm going to a good team." Brooks said it was obvious when the Dodgers signed Brett Butler as a free agent to play center field that one of the existing outfielders would be traded. 'Surprised and Disappointed' "I was surprised that it was me, surprised and disappointed," he said. "I had just gotten here, played for one year. I thought I had gotten along with my fellow teammates and everyone else, Also, I was a right-hand hitter and that's something I felt the team needed with all the left-handers they have. But somebody had to go and I was the odd man out."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. When somebody raised economics as the reason Brooks, and not Kal Daniels, the left fielder, was traded, he didn't disagree. "I'm sure it has something to do with it," he said. "I don't know how many dollars Bob Ojeda makes, but it probably has something to do with it. You had to think about it the way they were signing guys." Brooks has a $2 million salary each of the next two years. Daniels is unsigned for 1991, but earned $600,000 this year. Ojeda's 1991 salary is $1.5 million. The Dodgers had been talking about trading Daniels for a left-handed relief pitcher, but they opted for a left-handed starting pitcher instead. Advertisement Now it's the Mets' turn to make decisions on a batting order and an outfield alignment. Asked where he thought he would bat, Brooks said, "I have no idea." Batting Order Unsettled Bud Harrelson, the manager of the Mets, has said he will not determine a batting order until spring training, acknowledging that he has plenty of possibilities. Probably the only set hitters are Coleman first, Kevin McReynolds fourth and Howard Johnson fifth. Brooks very likely would bat third or sixth. If Harrelson wants Tom Herr to bat second, someone -- Gregg Jefferies, Dave Magadan or Brooks -- would have to bat seventh. It probably would not be Brooks because, with Charlie O'Brien, the catcher, batting next, pitchers wouldn't give Brooks pitches to hit. Then for sure, he wouldn't be replacing Strawberry. Brooks does know that he will replace Strawberry in right field. In the five weeks he and Strawberry were teammates with the Dodgers, Brooks never thought that he would play right and Strawberry center. "Not for one minute did I believe it," Brooks said of the idea that Strawberry would be the center fielder. "I thought it was a ploy that management threw out for you guys." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 18, 1990, on Page D00025 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Brooks Will Get the Job Done His Way.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »