Advertisement By CLIFTON BROWN Hubert Davis, the Knicks' top draft choice, agreed to a multiyear contract yesterday and will report to the team's training camp when it opens in Charleston, S.C., next Friday. The Knicks did not disclose contract terms, but a member of the league office and a player agent, both of whom wished to remain unidentified, said Davis signed a four-year contract worth an estimated $3.1 million, with a fifth-year option. Davis will earn an estimated $680,000 this season. Davis, a 6-foot-5-inch shooting guard from North Carolina, was the 20th player selected in the June draft. To make salary-cap room for Davis, the Knicks renounced their rights to backup center Patrick Eddie. Meanwhile, newly acquired point guard Doc Rivers agreed to restructure his contract, giving the Knicks $200,000 of his salary this season to apply to Davis. In exchange for restructuring his contract, Rivers was given a one-year contract extension, meaning he is signed through the 1995-96 season.  Plenty of Candidates Shooting guard is the Knicks' deepest position, with Rolando Blackman, John Starks, Tony Campbell, Bo Kimble, Davis and Rivers all capable of playing there. But while Davis may not play regularly this season, the Knicks are convinced that his shooting ability and work ethic give him an excellent chance to develop into a solid player. Advertisement "I think Hubert is a player who will be in our organization for many years," said Ernie Grunfeld, the Knicks' vice president of player personnel. "We have a lot of veteran players at his position, but that will give Hubert a chance to come along at his own pace. We have high hopes for Hubert."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Davis, who played in a summer league, said he had spent most of his time recently in Chapel Hill, N. C., working out with former Tar Heel players like J. R. Reid of the Charlotte Hornets and Rick Fox of the Boston Celtics. Davis has also begun a weight-training program, hoping to add muscle to his wiry frame. Davis, who played at 183 pounds as a college senior, said he now weighed 195 pounds. Advertisement "I'm very happy that the Knicks drafted me, because it gives me a chance to work with some great players," Davis said. "I think it's great to be able to join a team like this, a team that has an excellent chance to win." Signing Davis put the Knicks' payroll right at the $14 million National Basketball Association team salary cap. That decreased the likelihood that New York will sign a free-agent backup center, such as Eric Leckner, Brad Lohaus or Herb Williams, before the season starts. New York would be permitted to exceed the cap only to sign a free agent at the league's minimum salary ($140,000). "For right now, we have to go with what we have," Grunfeld said of the backup center position. "We feel with Charles Oakley and Charles Smith, we have adequate players who can fill that role." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 3, 1992, on Page 1001031 of the National edition with the headline: BASKETBALL; Knicks Give a 4-Year Pact To a Future 3-Point Threat.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »