Advertisement  Cardinals 6, Braves 5 ST. LOUIS, May 10 (AP) -- The Atlanta Braves blew a lead for the second straight game as Tom Pagnozzi delivered a two-run single with two outs in the ninth inning to give the St. Louis Cardinals a 6-5 victory today. In one of the greatest comebacks in their history, the Cardinals rallied from a 9-0 deficit to beat the defending National League champions, 12-11, Saturday night. Atlanta led by 3-0 in the third and was ahead, 5-4, entering the ninth before the Cardinals loaded the bases with two outs against Alejandro Pena. Pena (0-3) blew a save opportunity for the second time this week. "We just don't give up," Pagnozzi said. "When we get into the seventh, eighth and ninth innings, it's our ball game. Our confidence is just going to get higher and higher." Advertisement Pedro Guerrero broke his bat on a single with two outs in the ninth and Milt Thompson pinch ran. Pinch-hitter Gerald Perry singled to put runners at first and third, and Todd Zeile worked out a four-pitch walk to load the bases. Pagnozzi followed with a single to right, scoring Thompson and Perry. Advertisement It was the third crushing defeat of the week for the Braves. On Wednesday, Atlanta was one out away from a 13-inning victory at Pittsburgh when second baseman Mark Lemke and right fielder David Justice let Jay Bell's popup drop in for the game-tying r.b.i. The Pirates won in 16 innings. Terry Pendleton had three hits for the Braves, including a home run, against his former team. He is 7 for 12 against the Cardinals with two home runs, two doubles and three r.b.i. Phillies 9, Padres 3 PHILADELPHIA (AP) -- Terry Mulholland pitched his second straight complete game and drove in two runs, and Mariano Duncan hit a three-run homer as Philadelphia beat San Diego. The Padres scored with two outs in the first inning against Mulholland (2-3) when Gary Sheffield singled and Fred McGriff hit his 10th home run. The Padres added a run in the second on pitcher Greg Harris's r.b.i. single. Mulholland then settled down as he scattered 11 hits, walked one and struck out one. McGriff had seven straight hits before striking out in the eighth inning. In his career against Mulholland he is 9 for 15 with three home runs. In the three-game series, the Padres scored 14 runs, 13 of them coming with two outs and nobody on base. Reds 6, Cubs 0  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. CHICAGO (AP) -- Tim Belcher pitched a two-hitter to snap a personal three-game losing streak as Cincinnati stymied Chicago. Belcher (2-4) tossed his 13th career shutout and first since Aug. 30, when he defeated the Cubs for Los Angeles. He walked two and struck out five for his first complete game of the season. Darnell Coles had three hits for the Reds, including two doubles, and drove in two runs. Danny Jackson, making his seventh start, dropped to 0-5. He is 1-10 in 21 starts as a Cub. The left-hander's only victory for Chicago was last June 14. Giants 8, Expos 3 Advertisement MONTREAL (AP) -- Kirt Manwaring's tie-breaking two-run double and Mike Felder's three-run homer highlighted a five-run 11th inning as San Francisco defeated Montreal. With one out and runners on first and third, Manwaring doubled into the right-field corner off Bill Landrum (1-1) to make a winner out of Jeff Brantley (2-0). Kevin Bass doubled to lead off the 11th and was sacrificed to third by Cory Snyder. Landrum then issued an intentional walk to Matt Williams to bring up Manwaring. After a walk to Brantley, Felder hit a three-run home run to right off Landrum. Expos starter Dennis Martinez pitched five and one-third perfect innings, and Archi Cianfrocco hit a three-run homer off Kelly Downs to put the Expos ahead 3-0 in the second. Cianfrocco, a rookie, hit a homer and drove in five runs on Saturday. Astros 6, Pirates 4 PITTSBURGH (AP) -- Jeff Bagwell broke out of a slump with a tying pinch homer in the eighth inning and a go-ahead solo shot in the 10th as Houston stopped a nine-game road losing streak by defeating Pittsburgh. The Astros had lost four in a row over all and hadn't won away from the Astrodome since the road opener April 24 at Atlanta. The Pirates lost for only the third time in 15 games at Three Rivers Stadium. With the Pirates leading by 4-3 after Jeff King's homer in the seventh, Bagwell tied it with a leadoff drive in the eighth, the first run allowed this season after 12 1/3 innings by reliever Bob Patterson. Bagwell, last season's N.L. rookie of the year, was in a 2-for-26 slump at the time. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 11, 1992, on Page C00005 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL: NATIONAL LEAGUE; Braves Again Are Victims Of Cardinals' Comeback.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »