Advertisement By TIMOTHY W. SMITH The Jets got in some final sparring -- literally -- against Philadelphia on Thursday night in their final preseason game, and it could come in handy in their season opener Sept. 6 when they face the Falcons at the new Georgia Dome in Atlanta. The Jets finished the preseason with a 5-0 record by beating the Eagles, 22-13, in a game played at a regular-season tempo, complete with flaring tempers, punishing hits and big plays. Minor fights broke out sporadically throughout the night. But in the first quarter a near brawl erupted in front of the Eagles' bench after Philadelphia running back Herschel Walker took exception to a hit near the sideline by Jets free safety Lonnie Young. The Jets' coach, Bruce Coslet, had to call timeout to settle his team down. On Aug. 1, in the Hall of Fame game, the teams played each other without the amount of trash-talking and cheap shots that was evident Thursday night at Veterans Stadium. Advertisement "But it's the end of the preseason and this game is the springboard into that first real game," explained Jets cornerback Mike Brim. "It had a lot of importance to it. Guys were trying to put the little extra into it." Another Loud Team Advertisement In the Falcons, the Jets will be facing another team full of players who like to talk trash and take questionable shots at opponents. You can bet that during the next 10 days, Coslet will emphasize the importance of maintaining poise. Brim said that not since the Detroit game last year had the Jets been in a game where vitriol spilled after almost every play. In the Detroit game, the Lions became upset when nose tackle Jerry Ball injured his knee on a block by Jets fullback Brad Baxter. The Lions players thought it was a cheap shot and tried to brand the Jets as a bunch of cheap-shot artists.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "We definitely don't want to be characterized as a team that's cheap and talks trash," said defensive end Dennis Byrd. "We want to be known as a team that plays good hard defense and whenever the time comes we'll defend ourselves. That's not in us to go out of the way to give a cheap shot or start a fight." Meanwhile, all signs still point to Browning Nagle as the Jets' starting quarterback in the season opener while Ken O'Brien is trying to scrape off rust accumulated by missing 35 days of camp during a contract dispute. O'Brien played nearly three quarters against the Eagles, completing 7 of 18 passes for 111 yards and 2 touchdowns. Nagle completed 4 of 7 passes for 58 yards. Is Nagle, whose inexperience is his main weakness, prepared to start the opener? "I'm sure there's more out there that I need to know," Nagle said. "But I feel very comfortable with what I've accomplished and with what I think I can accomplish. I'll get real prepared for the Atlanta Falcons with the next 10 days that we have." Sanders Won't Be There The Jets got a break of sorts on Thursday when Falcons cornerback Deion Sanders announced that he was going to finish the baseball season with the Atlanta Braves. That means he'll miss the first six games of the Falcons' season and as many as eight games if the Braves make the playoffs. Sanders is the second Falcons defensive back to opt for baseball. Earlier this year, strong safety Brian Jordan gave up football to sign a deal with the Cardinals. Without Sanders, the Falcons' gambling blitz, which requires single coverage on the receivers, becomes riskier. But Jordan's departure could be the bigger blow, because the Falcons' defense against the run will suffer. He was one of the hardest hitters on the team. EXTRA POINTS In addition to the 5-0 record, the Jets take out of their preseason a relatively healthy team. Receiver AL TOON pulled a hamstring and was taken out of the game, but Coslet said it was a minor injury. Strong safety BRIAN WASHINGTON injured his shoulder in the first quarter. That injury was also described as minor. Both are expected to be ready for the season opener. Running back FREEMAN McNEIL was held out of the Eagles game with an ankle injury for precautionary reasons. The most serious injury the Jets have at the moment is running back JOHNNY HECTOR's pulled groin muscle, which will keep him sidelined for the next three to four weeks. . . . ROB MOORE, who had missed the previous three preseason games with a sprained ankle, returned against the Eagles and had 4 receptions for 64 yards. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 29, 1992, on Page 1001031 of the National edition with the headline: FOOTBALL; Jets and Eagles Reach Regular-Season Pitch.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »