Advertisement By PETER PASSELL Wanna see the baseball club owners really squirm? Repeal their exemption from the antitrust laws. Major League Baseball's privileged place in the legal sun, granted by the United States Supreme Court in 1922, has long been questioned by antitrust hawks. And repeal is sure to be on the agenda of frustrated fans and their representatives next week when the House Judiciary subcommittee holds a hearing on the collapse of the 1994 season. What has apparently not yet struck a political chord, though, notes Irwin Stelzer, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute, is how neatly this punishment would fit the crime. Indeed, says Stelzer, Adam Smith himself couldn't have dreamed up a better one: "It would fix the process without dictating the result." Both the players and the clubs, argues George Daly, dean of New York University's Stern School of Business, think the origins of the conflict lie in free agency, the right of veteran players to sign with the highest bidder. In fact, says Daly, the explosion in players' salaries can be explained equally well by the surge in national television revenues that are shared among the clubs. Comparable television bonanzas, he notes, yielded comparable surges in incomes for football and basketball stars even when they lacked the freedom to play where they pleased. As long as revenues were growing rapidly, this distinction could be dismissed as diversion for M.B.A.s who would rather talk sports than crunch numbers. But now that baseball's national television revenues have dropped, there is far less cash to spread around. More to the point, Daly argues, greater dependence on income from stadium and local television revenues has increased the disparity in potential earnings between large-market teams like the Los Angeles Dodgers and small-market teams like the Pittsburgh Pirates. Advertisement It is still far from clear that well-managed, well-promoted teams in small markets are doomed to be unprofitable because they are forced to pay competitive salaries. Baltimore, for example, with its spiffy retro stadium and gung-ho fans, looks like a winner. Advertisement Nor, for that matter, is it clear that successful teams can't be built on shoestring budgets. Roger Noll, an economist at Stanford who consults for the players, points out that a handful of small-market teams -- notably Montreal and Cleveland -- were doing very well this year with payrolls one-third below the average. What is clear, though, is that more aggressive revenue-sharing that took the financial pressure off struggling small-market teams would cost the successful major-market teams a lot of money. That apparently explains why major-market club owners brushed aside the possibility in the now-defunct negotiations. And it also explains why attempts to limit team payrolls -- more specifically, salary caps low enough to insure that small-market clubs could bid for their share of the superstars -- became the mantra that united the club owners. "Salary caps," argues Louis Guth, a senior vice president at National Economic Research Associates and sometime-consultant to the owners, "would be no threat to the American way of life." Indeed, Guth thinks the players were foolish to make a stand on what he believes is a false principle. They might have done very well, he says, by pragmatically accepting the concept and bargaining for a bigger percentage of revenues.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But players have given no sign they are about to touch a single feather on the free-agency goose they (perhaps mistakenly) believe has been laying all those golden eggs. By the same token, the owners seem immovable, setting the stage for what Daly labels "a holy war of attrition." And that's where the antitrust exemption fits in. Were baseball just another business subject to free-market forces, notes Guth, the enormous disparities in the earning power of teams -- and, by implication, the club owners' rationale for insisting on salary caps -- couldn't survive long. Unprofitable franchises would move, often to large cities already occupied by very profitable ones. But as long as baseball is exempt from the antitrust laws, he says, large-market teams can and will veto moves that undermine their profitability. Guth doesn't necessarily favor the removal of this legally sanctioned impediment to club mobility. Baseball just wouldn't be baseball, he suggests, if, say, the Cardinals could head for Chicago at the whim of some brewmeister. But he concedes that it would force the owners to confront the contradiction between their self-proclaimed roles as managers of profit-maximizing enterprises and legally privileged custodians of the national pastime. Stelzer is more sanguine. If the Dodgers or the Yankees had to worry about local competition, he argues, they would do what was necessary to reduce other teams' financial incentives to poach on their franchises. In such a world, aggressive revenue-sharing -- say a sharp increase in the percentage of ticket revenues that went to visiting teams -- would thus serve all team owners rather than just the small-market clubs. And while the salary cap might still be an attractive way for the owners to share the risk of baseball's declining economic fortunes with the players, Stelzer points out that the lure would be much diminished. In Stelzer's view, then, repeal of the antitrust exemption is a no-brainer: "It wouldn't do any harm," he says, "and it might do a lot of good." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 16, 1994, on Page B00010 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL: ANALYSIS; Now at Risk Is Owners' Security Blanket: Antitrust Exemption.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »