Advertisement By KAREN CROUSEJUNE 28, 2014
 BETHESDA, Md. —  Tiger Woods’s new golf bag, with the neon green MP on the front panel, a pocket and the base, is an attention grabber. The initials stand for MusclePharm, a Denver dietary supplement company that recently signed Woods to a multiyear endorsement deal. In the fields of nutrition and science, supplements fall on the hazard line, with officials divided on whether they are O.K. or out of bounds. The subtext is serious, but the question was posed to Woods lightly on Friday: Will the neon green MP on his bag make him a can’t-miss target for random drug testing on the PGA Tour? He laughed. “I haven’t been tested all year,” said Woods, who lost his world No. 1 ranking last month while sidelined with a back injury that required surgery. Advertisement With his enthusiasm for strength training and his sculptured physique, Woods, 38, pumped up the golf fitness craze started by Gary Player in the 1950s. Having erased golf’s stereotype as a game for the unfit, Woods has turned his attention to the negativity surrounding supplement use. Scores of prominent athletes with failed drug tests have blamed their results on tainted supplements, and health problems ranging from depression to kidney failure and heart attacks have been linked to products sold as dietary supplements. “Our goal is to take the stigma out of supplements,” said Woods’s agent, Mark Steinberg. “Tiger Woods, maybe the most fit golfer that we’ve had, let’s show that it’s O.K. to align yourself with supplements. Just be safe when you do it. That’s the message we collectively want to spread.” Dietary supplements are a billion-dollar industry, and Brad Pyatt, the chairman and chief executive of MusclePharm, argues that Woods can help the company become the industry’s gold standard. “Tiger Woods is kind of the stamp of approval we were looking for,” Pyatt said in a telephone interview. “He’s the biggest figure in athletics we can get other than LeBron James.” Advertisement Pyatt, 34, is a retired receiver who played in the N.F.L., mostly on special teams, for the Indianapolis Colts in 2003 and 2004. He founded the company in 2008 with Cory Gregory. “There’s no miracle pills,” Pyatt said. “What we sell is to support the athlete’s regimen.” MusclePharm sponsored the Ultimate Fighting Championship in 2009 and has gone on to acquire a stable of spokesmen that also includes Colin Kaepernick of the San Francisco 49ers and Jets receiver Eric Decker. The company said it had earned revenue of more than $110 million in 2013. “My long-term goal,” Pyatt said, “is to become the first mainstream supplement company to take the scariness out of supplements.” MusclePharm’s ascent has not been without turbulence. The director of marketing, Jeremy DeLuca, pleaded guilty in 2012 to selling misbranded dietary supplements containing synthetic anabolic steroids when he was the president of Bodybuilding.com, an online sports nutrition company. In December, NSF International, a nonprofit organization that tests supplements for the N.F.L. and other professional sports groups, cited MusclePharm for unauthorized use of NSF certification marks. Pyatt said DeLuca’s predicament with Bodybuilding.com, which resold products it acquired from other manufacturers, “is why the industry is in need of a company like MusclePharm.” He said he had removed DeLuca from the executive board for the sake of propriety. The situation with the NSF “was just a miscommunication,” Pyatt said. Steinberg said he had thoroughly researched the company and was satisfied with its commitment to putting the athlete first and producing safe, healthful (and helpful) products. He said he had taken his research to Woods and said, “Are you O.K. with me moving forward on this?”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Woods explained why he saw MusclePharm as a great fit. “It’s something that I believe in and something that I do, something that I put in my body and for recovery,” he said. “As we all age and get a little bit older, it’s about nutrition, and that’s how we are able to stay explosive and how we are able to recover and stay strong for a long period of time.” Advertisement Plans are afoot for Woods’s own line of products, including liquids and bars similar to those routinely consumed by golfers during their rounds. Pyatt predicted that there would be “something in the works” by the end of this year. “We are going to sit with them in detail in the coming months on current products and products we may develop together,” Steinberg said. Ahead of those meetings, Steinberg this month held a troubleshooting session with Andy Levinson, the PGA Tour’s vice president for tournament administration and antidoping. “Anything we do, if we create a Tiger line, we’ll make sure it’s approved by the tour,” Steinberg said, “so nobody’s going to ingest anything that puts him in harm’s way.” Reached by telephone, Levinson said he told Steinberg what he told any player who asked about supplements. “You need to know the manufacturing controls,” Levinson said, adding: “Supplements in general as an industry are poorly regulated by the F.D.A. So there’s no guarantee that what’s on the label is what’s in the product.” At MusclePharm, safety and science form the backbone, Pyatt said. The company’s liquids and gels, he said, are made at its 35,000-square-foot facility. The proteins and pills are outsourced. All products are subject to in-house testing by a team of scientists, pharmacists and doctors to ensure that there are no ingredients other than those that appear on the labels, Pyatt said. Advertisement In addition, MusclePharm uses Informed-Choice, a third-party quality-assurance company that also serves the United States Ski and Snowboard Association, to test its products. “Being an ex-athlete and being around ex-athletes, I know how much effort goes into their training,” Pyatt said. “If they fail a drug test, it’s going to taint all that hard work, and if one of my athletes fails a drug test, it’s going to ruin my reputation and the reputation of the company.” In a mall three and a half miles from Congressional Country Club, where Woods returned to competition last week, there was a GNC store stocked with a few shelves of MusclePharm products. They included an empty bottle, with the NSF-certified seal, of B.C.A.A. (branched chain amino acid complex). What happened to its contents? “Someone stole them,” the clerk said Friday. “MusclePharm, very popular.” A version of this article appears in print on June 29, 2014, on Page SP11 of the New York edition with the headline: Hoping to Erase the Supplements Stigma.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »