A section-by-section look at the Women’s Singles draw of the 2011 United States Open, and predictions on which 16 women will advance to the second week. A tournament where the overwhelming favorite is the No. 28 seed? Now that’s different. Here is a look at the top half: The 2011 United States Open marks Caroline Wozniacki’s fifth consecutive Grand Slam as the top seed, a record for a player without a Grand Slam title to her name. Wozniacki’s defensive, moonballing style of play has attracted a great deal of criticism, criticism that recently caused her father Piotr Wozniacki to announce the end of his role as her primary coach. But however much criticism her tactics attract, Wozniacki wins a lot of matches. And coming off a title in New Haven last week (a title she won by reverting to her comfortable, defensive style), Wozniacki’s confidence in her game should be high. Wozniacki lost only a total of three games in her first three matches at last year’s Open, and her road through the first week of this year’s tournament is only marginally trickier. Predicted to reach the Round of 16:  Caroline Wozniacki. On talent alone, 2004 Open champion Svetlana Kuznetsova should be able to move through this section of the draw with some ease. But inconsistency has tormented Kuznetsova ever since winning in New York seven years ago, and no loss of hers can be considered a real surprise. Daniela Hantuchova, the other seed in this section, has proven to be a far more consistent presence this year, making runs to the quarterfinals in San Diego and Cincinnati earlier this month. A potential second-round match against Wimbledon quarterfinalist Tamira Paszek could prove difficult, but Hantuchova still should be considered the favorite to advance through to the second week. Should she and Wozniacki both advance, it would set up an interesting rematch of their third-round encounter at this year’s French Open, which Hantuchova won in a 6-1, 6-3 upset. Predicted to reach the Round of 16: Daniela Hantuchova. Andrea Petkovic broke out at the 2010 Open, dancing her way into the fourth round with three-set wins over Nadia Petrova and Bethanie Mattek-Sands. Petkovic has been able to build on that initial Grand Slam success in 2011, making the quarterfinals of both the Australian and French Opens, runs that helped her crack the top 10 for the first time this summer. If she can cope with the slight tear to her right meniscus that she sustained en route to the semifinals in Cincinnati, Petkovic should be able to power her way through Zheng Jie and the steady Roberta Vinci. Predicted to reach the Round of 16: Andrea Petkovic. Kaia Kanepi quietly made her third career Grand Slam quarterfinal at last year’s Open, but an Achilles’ tendon injury has kept her out of action for the entire summer hardcourt season. Kanepi’s rust could give an opening to 40-year-old Kimiko Date-Krumm, who proved with a close three-set loss to Venus Williams at Wimbledon in June that her big-match ability has not faded with age. But neither Kanepi nor Kimiko Date-Krumm should be able to knock out French Open champion Li Na, who seems to have regained her form after a clear loss of conditioning after Wimbledon. Li’s toughest test of the first week could be the hard-hitting Romanian teenager Simona Halep, who knocked out Svetlana Kuznetsova in the first round of Toronto. Predicted to reach the Round of 16: Li Na. Seeded in the No. 25-32 range, Serena Williams was guaranteed to draw one of the top eight seeds in the third round. That this was seen as a scarier proposition for the top eight than for Williams herself says a great deal about how poorly Williams’s current ranking of No. 29 reflects her current form. The unlucky top seed to be placed opposite Williams was No. 4 Victoria Azarenka, who lost to Williams in the semifinals of Toronto and then missed Cincinnati with an elbow injury. If Azarenka’s elbow keeps her from being near 100 percent, the powerful Canadian Rebecca Marino or the speedy Argentine Gisela Dulko could knock Azarenka out before she even has the chance to lose to Williams. Azarenka, who made her first Grand Slam semifinal at Wimbledon this year, has beaten Williams once in their six previous meetings, and nearly defeated her in the 2009 Australian Open quarterfinals. But with the intangibles Williams will bring into this Open (not to mention a 12-match winning streak), it’s tough to see her losing in the first week. Predicted to reach the Round of 16: Serena Williams. Though a likely fourth-round date with Serena Williams puts something of a damper on it, all eight players in this section of the draw should be very happy to find themselves surrounded by one another. After an exceptional 2010, the Israeli Shahar Peer has been struggling throughout 2011, but should be able to use her consistency to get through the erratic players in this section. Sania Mirza, erratic though she may be, holds a 4-1 career record against Peer, her first-round opponent. The 18-year-old American wild card Sloane Stephens gets an extremely winnable match against qualifier Reka-Luka Jani. Petra Cetkovska made her first W.T.A. final last week in New Haven, and might have been seeded if the tournament started a week later. Ana Ivanovic, who has struggled in Grand Slams all year, gets a chance to avenge her loss to Cetkovska at Wimbledon. Ksenia Pervak, who made the second week of a Grand Slam for the first time at Wimbledon, could sneak past Ivanovic if she catches the former W.T.A. No. 1 on an off day. If all eight play their best (although there is no reason to assume they will), Ivanovic would be the one moving through. But based on current form, Cetkovska will have a huge advantage. Predicted to reach the Round of 16: Petra Cetkovska. The young American Alison Riske has the weapons to beat most players on a fast court, but Jelena Jankovic is not one of those players. The resurgent Jankovic should make it past Riske and past Jelena Dokic with relative ease, but her likely match with Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova would be a close one. Jankovic’s play depends on her self-belief as much as any player in the game, and her recent run to the final of Cincinnati (a final she barely lost to Maria Sharapova) has the former No. 1 and 2008 Open runner-up nearly as confident as ever. Predicted to reach the Round of 16: Jelena Jankovic. Her draw did not look especially difficult initially, but Francesca Schiavone was dealt the two toughest qualifiers in the field to deal with early on in the tournament. Galina Voskoboeva notched two top-10 wins (over Marion Bartoli and Maria Sharapova) on her way to the quarterfinals of Toronto three weeks, and has a brand of first-strike power that could unsettle Schiavone. If she were to survive Voskoboeva, Schiavone could face another tough test from Marina Erakovic, who upset Victoria Azarenka earlier this summer. But Schiavone rises to occasions better than almost any player in the game today, and the importance of this Open should give her the edge she needs to survive both qualifiers and a likely third-round encounter with Maria Jose Martinez Sanchez. Predicted to reach the Round of 16: Francesca Schiavone. Journalists from The New York Times and The International Herald Tribune (along with a few dedicated fans) are following the Grand Slam tournaments, on and off the court. They will provide updates, insights, links and analysis while setting the scene from the stands as well as the press room. 
			This blog’s regular features, including live tournament analysis, news and notes from Christopher Clarey, Ben Rothenberg and others, and other coverage, can now be found on the tennis section front.Read more… 
			Venus Williams, ranked No. 63, beat No. 2 Victoria Azarenka in Tokyo on Tuesday, her first win over a player in the top two since 2009.Read more… 
			The United States learned on Wednesday that it would host a first-round tie with Britain for the 2014 Davis Cup.Read more… 
			According to one celebrity marketing index, Andy Murray is the most appealing of the so-called Big Four in men’s tennis. Read more… 
			Sloane Stephens walked the runway Thursday night in the Just Dance With Boy Meets Girl fashion show, modeling the designs of Stacy Igel.Read more… Advertisement