Advertisement By JOE SEXTON Patience, as often as not a virtue for the Rangers this season, had become a form of torture last night against the Edmonton Oilers at Madison Square Garden. Chances weren't taken, more rushes were abandoned than finished, shots were held and then misfired. "As a rule," said John Muckler, the coach of the Oilers, "the Rangers don't attack that much." And so, as a strategic option, Kevin Miller's decision not to shoot as he spun to face Bill Ranford from a dozen paces with the Rangers trailing by 2-1 midway through the third period appeared destined to be one more hesitation that would haunt the Rangers. "I should have shot," Miller said afterward. "I tend to go back, though, to my instincts to pass." As it turned out, Miller's instincts were right and the pass he made was even better. And so at long and painful last for the Rangers, the moment was theirs, the tense, often tedious wait ultimately worth it. A Perfect Pass Randy Moller, a defenseman who had snuck into the slot behind the play, took Miller's late but perfect pass and buried it behind Ranford, the Edmonton goaltender, with barely 11 minutes left in the third period. It earned the Rangers a 2-2 draw with the Oilers. Advertisement "He doesn't dish it to me right then, I'm bailing out, peeling back," said Moller. "But he'd seen me and understood the options he had. He made the right choice." Advertisement Ranford, who had made every other sort of save during the night, couldn't get anything on Moller's off-speed snapshot from the inner rim of the right face-off circle. "I didn't see Moller at all," said Ranford, the tireless full-time goaltender for the Oilers and the man who carried them to the Stanley Cup last spring. "I was just scrambling, and I wound up actually overplaying the shot. Miller had waited, and then Moller did for a split-second, too, before he shot. Smart play all around." And for the Rangers, it salvaged a decent, if not explosively entertaining effort over all. The Rangers, whose 4-3 triumph over Hartford Sunday nght terminated one of their most unsightly minor patches of the season, employed the single point gained to forge further ahead in the Patrick Division, their lead over the pack extended to 9 points.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "A tough, hard game, one that we had more chances in," said Roger Neilson, the coach of the 26-15-8 Rangers. "We didn't quite click on them. We thought they might tire. They never did. They were strong all night." None of the Oilers were more dramtically resilient than Ranford. Ranford, who emerged from an unfair obscurity last season to earn the Conn Smythe Trophy as the Most Valuable Player in the playoffs, has started all but 5 of the Oilers' 44 games this season. "A quality goaltender," said Mike Gartner, who watched his high-caliber, high-velocity blast from the right wing in regulation's waning seconds spectacularly kicked out by Ranford. "Not a lot of people have heard that much about him. He just keeps piling up the numbers." His counterpart, John Vanbiesbrouck, totaled his own estimable collection of saves in the course of the night, stopping a pair of breakaways in the second period with the Oilers ahead 1-0 and threatening to race away from the deliberate Rangers. The Oilers, on Petr Klima's goal less than three minutes into the second period, had put the Rangers on the defensive. Then, after Gartner's stuff from in front slid under Ranford 61 seconds later, Joe Murphy walked through the slot and whipped a shot over Vanbiesbrouck's shoulder to make it 2-1 entering the third. "We were kicking ourselves," said Bernie Nicholls, the center for the Rangers. "Good players with the puck understand above all else when to get rid of it." Advertisement Last night, Kevin Miller, a good player, made a great decision with the puck. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 16, 1991, on Page D00021 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; Rangers Rally For a Tie.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »