The players who brawled in the final seconds of the Xavier-Cincinnati men’s basketball game on Dec. 10 will not face criminal charges. The Hamilton (Ohio) County prosecutor, Joe Deters, said Wednesday that heÂ  and pother prosecutors reviewed the video of the vicious fight and came to the decision not to pursue charges that might have been considered, likeÂ assault and battery or disorderly conduct. The fight, whichÂ broke out with 9.4 seconds to play in the annual “Crosstown Shootout” game between the two teams, includedÂ the Cincinnati senior guard Yancy Gates’s punching Xavier center Kenny Frease in the face and opening a bloody gash beneath his left eye. Both schools have suspended four players each, and apologies–Â  some tearful, likeÂ  Gates’ on Monday, have been issued for their unsportsmanlike conduct. Xavier won the game 73-65. “This was an unfortunate situation,” Deters said in a statement released Wednesday. “However, after talking with both coaches, I truly believe that the teams will be able to deal with the situation more effectively than the criminal justice system.” Frease accepted Gates’ apology, and Deters said that act of forgiveness also mattered in his decision not to prosecute. 
The Quad is a blog about the fierce competition and engrossing culture of college sports. From the Bowl Championship Series to March Madness, to news and features about one's alma mater or local collegiate team, The New York Times will take readers inside the world of collegiate athletics with interviews, insights and analysis from the tailgates to the locker room. 
			The Quad blog’s content moves to the college football and college basketball pages on nytimes.com. Read more… 
			Joe Mihalich, who has spent the past 15 seasons at Niagara, will replace the fired Mo Cassara. Read more… 
			There is a lot wrong with college basketball, but the N.C.A.A. still provides a lot of great opportunities for young athletes, as was evident again during this year’s tournament.Read more… 
			An analysis of the N.C.A.A. tournament championship game between Louisville and Michigan, based on concepts of sport psychology like big-game experience, leadership behind the bench, leadership on the court, error control and consistency.Read more… 
			Tim Pernetti, the former Rutgers athletic director, discussed the tension between running an athletic business inside an educational institution at a New York University Sports & Society program in November, saying the “human capital” in the department is what can be controlled.Read more… Follow Advertisement