Advertisement By KAREN CROUSEJUNE 26, 2014
 BETHESDA, Md. —  If it had been a band from the swing era, the Tiger Woods trio would have been booed off the stage Thursday at Congressional Country Club. But it was a golf group, and the crowd, which lined up five deep around the 10th tee and formed a human outline around the 208-yard par-3 hole, was overwhelmingly supportive from start to finish. Woods and his playing competitors, Jason Day and Jordan Spieth, were out of sync in the first round of the Quicken Loans National. How ragged was their performance? Woods, playing in his first tournament in 102 days, hit nine fairways, equaling the total Day and Spieth reached. As a group, the three found the fairway with their drives on only one hole, their second. Through nine, they were a combined 12 over. By the time they were done, they had whittled their collective score to eight over.  Woods birdied two of his final three holes to finish at three-over 74, tied for 83rd with Spieth, among others, who birdied his last hole. Day, who is coming back from a thumb injury,  posted a 73. The morning wave of 60 players averaged 71.9 strokes and included the leader, Greg Chalmers, who had a five-under 66. Advertisement “We were all kind of looking to break 80,” Woods said. “It was a bit of a fight today for all of us, but we all hung in there.” Advertisement Woods said earlier in the week that his stroke on and around the greens was sharper than his ball striking, because he was able to spend more time chipping and putting than hitting full shots after having surgery March 31 for a pinched nerve in his back. “That’s all I’ve been doing is chipping and putting,” said Woods, who hit 10 greens, two fewer than Chalmers did. He took 31 putts to Chalmers’s 25. On his seventh and eighth holes, Nos. 16 and 17, Woods missed consecutive 6-footers, one for birdie and the other for par. On his sixth and ninth holes, he two-putted for bogeys. “I made so many little mistakes,” Woods said. “So I played a lot better than the score indicated, which is good.” It took Woods a while to find his rhythm, which was understandable. In practice matches it is hard to replicate the adrenaline that kicks in during a tournament. “You play with your buddies all day for cash and stuff,” Woods said, “but it’s just not the same as tournament golf.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. He said he was hitting the ball farther than he had at home, making club selection tricky. “Got the adrenaline going, hit the ball a little further, try to hit my numbers and then the wind crops up a little bit,” Woods said. “Trying to get a feel for that and all the different things — if you play all the time, it’s second nature. But I’ve been off for a while, and I’ve been held back where I just haven’t been able to let it go. Now I’m able to start doing that, try to get my numbers again. That’s always been the challenge.” Woods, 38, smiled through his travails. He conversed easily with Day and Spieth and appeared happy to be back at work. Advertisement “It’s always fun to come back out here and play against these guys, the best players in the world, and to get out here and see what I can do,” he said. On every hole, Woods heard cries of “Welcome back, Tiger” and “We’re glad you’re back.” The size of the players’ gallery was impressive given that they teed off at 8:12 a.m. “It was great to see everyone behind Tiger welcoming him back and wishing him well,” Spieth said, adding, “I enjoyed it.” The last two times Woods played here, in 2009 and 2012, he won. Both times, he broke 70 in the second round, which he will need to do again Friday to advance to the weekend. In 313 PGA Tour starts as a professional, Woods has made 302 cuts. Of the 11 he has missed, six have come in the past six seasons. Woods played his second nine in one under, giving him cause for optimism. “The more I played, the more I felt comfortable about shot selections, my sight lines, all different things,” he said. Chalmers, an Australian who has never won on the PGA Tour, will tee off Friday in the afternoon, as will the Woods trio. “By the time I get here tomorrow I’ll probably be well behind,” Chalmers said. Woods has some catching up to do, but at least one person who watched him play was not prepared to count him out. “He finally found his rhythm, and we saw what happens when he found his rhythm there,” Spieth said. “So look for a pretty solid round tomorrow out of him. Wouldn’t be surprised if he shoots a few under.” A version of this article appears in print on June 27, 2014, on Page B14 of the New York edition with the headline: After More Than 100 Days Away, Woods Plays Like His Partners: Raggedly.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »