Advertisement  Special to The New York Times Just before the start of tonight's game between the Islanders and Detroit Red Wings, the 11,807 fans in Nassau Coliseum received this message over the public-address system: "For tonight's game, scratch number 16, Pat LaFontaine." LaFontaine, the Islanders' best player, sat out because he had the flu. And when his absence was announced, a large number of fans responded with depressing sighs. And when this game ended as a 2-2 tie, the fans were not feeling much better as they headed for the exits with a chorus of hardy boos. 3 Shots Miss in Overtime The Islanders, who squandered an early 2-0 lead, had three shots on goal in overtime, and two of the shots, both off of the stick of Randy Wood, were nearly game-winners. The Red Wings managed just one shot at the net in the overtime, but never mounted a serious threat. Advertisement "A number of guys were out of the lineup tonight, but that's no excuse," said Al Arbour, the coach of the Islanders, who was also without the services of Jeff Norton and Brad Lauer. Advertisement Two minutes into the overtime session, Wood, who had just hopped onto the ice after a line change, took a lead pass from Bill Berg and broke in all alone on Tim Cheveldae, the Detroit goaltender. But Cheveldae, who made 25 saves, turned Wood's shot aside. With one minute left in overtime, Wood fired a shot on net from the slot area, but Cheveldae was equal to that task as well. The Islanders built their 2-0 lead at 11:59 of the second period on a goal by Wood, his 14th score of the season.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Wood's goal was set up by Brent Sutter, who wheeled into the Detroit end of the ice and fired a slap shot. Sutter's shot sailed wide and to the left of Cheveldae, who had skated out about 10 feet to cut down Sutter's angle. But the puck caromed around the end boards and onto the stick of Wood, who realized Cheveldae was out of position, and quickly hacked at the puck, sending it into an empty net. Ray Ferraro had given the Islanders a 1-0 lead with a goal at 12:01 of the first period. Fedorov Starts Rally But the Islanders, who are 15-23-6 and in last place in the Patrick Division, had just 32 seconds to savor their two-goal advantage. Sergei Fedorov, the top scoring rookie in the National Hockey League, responded with his 22d goal of the season. Fedorov, who leads all rookies in assists with 27, and points, with 49, took a pass from Rick Zombo along the right-wing boards, and weaving through a maze of players, lifted a wrist shot past the short side of Glenn Healy. Advertisement The Red Wings, who trailed by 2-1 after two periods, tied the score at 17:03 of the final period on Yves Racine's fourth goal of the season. Healy, who made 33 saves on the night, attempted to kick the puck out but released his left leg too soon. The puck skipped off of the inside of his skate and into the net. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 13, 1991, on Page 8008005 of the National edition with the headline: PRO HOCKEY; Islanders Waste 2-0 Lead.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »