Advertisement Supported by By Jeff Z. Klein and Allan Kreda PHILADELPHIA — The Islanders could be a little more intriguing in the near future, and not just because of the team’s move to Brooklyn a year from now.  At the N.H.L. draft Friday night, they picked Joshua Ho-Sang, 18, a high-scoring Jamaican-Chilean-Chinese-Canadian player whose reputation for cockiness turned off clubs that might have chosen him.  Islanders General Manager Garth Snow, praising his own often-criticized drafting acumen in expletive-laden statements on live television during the draft, depicted Ho-Sang as a maverick chosen by another maverick — Snow himself. Ho-Sang is a departure from the mold of the deferential young hockey player.  “I’m a little bit different than some people — I think that’s pretty known,” Ho-Sang, a right-handed-shooting forward, said Friday after being selected No. 28 over all.  He said that he spent the morning with his parents at the Rodin Museum — “I quite enjoy art, actually,” he said — and that he had emotionally steeled himself for the evening’s event.  “Tonight, I was prepared to not get drafted,” he said, adding, “I was very grateful.”  The reason for Ho-Sang’s doubts lay in the cool reception he received at the recent N.H.L. combine. Only 18 of the league’s 30 clubs interviewed him, and a few of the interviews were fairly hostile. General managers asked him about reports of discipline problems, why Hockey Canada had never chosen him to play on the national youth team and whether he was more concerned with making flashy plays than with winning games. That line of questioning has persisted even though Ho-Sang had a team-high 85 points (32 goals and 53 assists) last season for the Windsor Spitfires of the Ontario Hockey League, as well as a plus-26 mark.  But Ho-Sang says he admires Patrick Kane and P. K. Subban, the kind of offense-first stickhandling wizards whom hockey traditionalists are leery of. Ho-Sang, like Kane and Subban, is no grim, grinding stoic. In an interview with The Toronto Sun last week, Ho-Sang described the star forwards Sidney Crosby, Pavel Datsyuk and Jonathan Toews as “stone-faced.”  “The guys with more personality play with something more,” he said. “I love to dangle. I love to play an offensive game. I love to celebrate when I score. I believe in myself.” He also told The Sun that if he were a general manager with the first pick in the draft, he would select himself. “There are guys ranked ahead of me who are nowhere near me,” he said. Ho-Sang’s father is a tennis professional from Jamaica with a grandfather from Hong Kong. His mother is a business analyst who was born in Chile and whose parents were an Eastern European Jew and a South American. It is a diverse background not entirely unusual in suburban Toronto, Ho-Sang’s hometown, and less unusual than it once would have been in hockey.  Still, Ho-Sang stands out with his personality, and his supposed character issues caused him to slip in the draft. Snow, the Islanders’ general manager, used the No. 5 pick to select the left-shooting forward Michael Dal Colle, who had 39 goals and 56 assists last season for the Oshawa Generals of the O.H.L. Snow then traded two second-round picks to the Tampa Bay Lightning for the 28th pick, which he used to grab Ho-Sang.  That raised eyebrows. Asked about Ho-Sang by the Canadian network TSN, Snow responded that Ho-Sang would “fit right in” and added with an expletive that he himself was used to being criticized.  “We get the players who we feel can help us win a championship,” Snow, whose Islanders have made the playoffs twice since he became the general manager in 2006, later told reporters. Again using an expletive, he said he did not care what others said. Ho-Sang said he had already heard from a more traditional star whom the team is built around: John Tavares. “I actually got a call from John Tavares, and that was amazing, obviously,” Ho-Sang said. “Clearly a top-five player in the N.H.L. It’s pretty cool.” Ho-Sang stopped short of predicting when he would join Tavares, 23, the top overall pick in 2009, on the Islanders.  “I have to get there first,” Ho-Sang said with a smile. SLAP SHOTS The Devils used the last pick of the first round to draft John Quenneville, a center who had 58 points last season for the Brandon Wheat Kings of the Western Hockey League. He is a second cousin to Blackhawks Coach Joel Quenneville. ... The Rangers did not pick until No. 59, near the end of the second round, on Saturday. They took the 6-foot-4 goalie Brandon Halverson, who logged a .904 save percentage last season with the Sault Ste. Marie Greyhounds of the O.H.L. ...In the seventh round, the Islanders picked forward Lukas Sutter, 20, whose father, Rich, is one of six Sutter brothers who played in the N.H.L. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS