Advertisement By CLAIRE SMITH and  Over the first two games, the starting pitchers for both the Oakland Athletics and the Toronto Blue Jays have sparkled in the American League Championship Series while some of the teams' top hitters have not. As the clubs head into Game 3 Saturday afternoon even at 1-1, the question is which came first, the slew of unhittable pitches or the crippling slumps? No matter; the bottom line is that either the hottest of pitchers or the coldest of hitters has assured that the series has been tautly played, with runs a lot scarcer than either team is used to having. That has made for exciting baseball, not to mention some mighty tough acts to follow for Toronto's Juan Guzman and Oakland's Ron Darling, the scheduled starters for Game 3. Guzman, 16-5 in the regular season, follows Jack Morris, who pitched a complete game Wednesday. Even though Morris lost, 4-3, he offered no apologies for a game most pitchers would have gladly turned in. Then came David Cone, who on Thursday pitched in a zone specially reserved for untouchable pitchers, allowing Oakland only five hits and one run in eight-plus innings in a 3-1 Toronto victory. Darling (15-10) follows Dave Stewart, who pitched seven and two-third innings of seven-hit, three-run ball in Game 1, and Mike Moore, who carried a one-hitter into the fifth inning in Game 2. Kelly Gruber's two-run home run in the fifth resulted in a loss for Moore. But as A's Manager Tony La Russa pointed out after the game, neither Moore nor any other starter has had any reason to hang his head in this series. Advertisement Some hitters wish they could say the same. Those most conspicuous by their absence: Oakland's Rickey Henderson and Carney Lansford and Toronto's Joe Carter. Advertisement Henderson, a batter used to feasting on pitching in October, as his career playoff batting average of .349 indicates, has not had a hit in six times up, with two walks and no stolen bases. More alarming, Henderson, foisted into position to make a huge difference in Game 2 by coming to bat with five runners in scoring position, did not advance one. One psychologically damaging hit by Henderson in the fifth inning on Thursday could have put Toronto down by two games and seriously crippled its pennant hopes. But that didn't happen. Instead, Henderson, batting with runners on second and third in a scoreless game, went down on strikes on four pitches, flailing wildly. "We definitely got a reprieve," Cone said. Henderson, though, did not as Toronto fans tauntingly chanted his first name in sing-song fashion. La Russa is not counting on Henderson to drive in runs. He's hoping the leadoff batter can reach base more frequently.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Rickey getting on base is like one or two runs a game," La Russa said today. "When he's going great, he's like three runs. I figure if he's on base, he's going to score. He's a special weapon." Three years ago, Henderson carried the A's virtually by himself, batting .400 in five games against Toronto, getting on base 13 times and stealing 8 bases. He was chosen the most valuable player of the series. "He's a big key for them," said Blue Jays reliever Tom Henke. "He disrupts things as soon as he gets on base. I don't know if he's 100 percent, but even if he isn't, he's still better than most guys." Advertisement Henderson, bothered at the end of a season by a sore back, is fine, La Russa said. "I think he's O.K., but I wouldn't be surprised if he's a little achy," La Russa said. "I don't think it will take away from his ability." 'Rickey and I Are Frustrated' The A's are also waiting for Lansford, the batter behind Henderson, to get going. He is 0 for 8 at the top of an offense now hitting just .194. "Without a doubt I know that Rickey and I are frustrated," said Lansford, who entered the series with a .361 playoff average. "But we're 1-1 with a chance to get it going in Oakland." Ironically, Toronto is also hoping that a change of scenery brings a change of fortune for its silent gun, No. 3 hitter Carter. The right fielder's 1-for-7 series has been overshadowed by Toronto's victory, but Carter has to know that his team also has the right to play what-if, given the fact that a timely hit here or there could have reversed the Jays' opening-game loss. In that game, Carter went to bat four times and collected a harmless bloop hit. He also began a trend of stranding runners in scoring position and now has marooned four, which is out of character for a player who drove in 119 on the season and has knocked in 98 or more the last seven seasons. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 10, 1992, on Page 1001030 of the National edition with the headline: THE PLAYOFFS; Pitchers Leave Tough Act To Follow.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »