Advertisement By JACK CURRY and  After all the dreary pitching performances that have dominated what fast became a dreary season, Sam Militello has arrived from the minor leagues and allowed the Yankees to dream about the future. In his second major league start tonight, the 22-year-old Militello was opposed by Charlie Hough, the 44-year-old knuckleball artist. But it was Militello's poise and command, not Hough's knuckleballs, that dominated the action and helped the Yankees whisk to 4-2 victory over the White Sox at Comiskey Park. Militello pitched eight solid innings, limited the robust-hitting White Sox to six hits and paced the Yankees to just their sixth victory in their last 20 games. Chicago entered the game with a .303 batting average in its last 23 games, but Militello's assortment of breaking pitches baffled them for most of the night. "He bent in a couple of areas, but he did not break," said Manager Buck Showalter. "He showed his composure in a couple of areas. It was good to see him pitch competitively against a tough team." Advertisement After watching the likes of Jeff Johnson, Tim Leary and Shawn Hillegas get hammered start after start, the Yankees have uncovered a refreshing pitcher who was at Class AAA Columbus eight days ago. The Yankees waited until their situation was too drastic to resuscitate before summoning Militello, and now it is easy to wonder what took them so long to send for him. Advertisement Despite the rapid start, Militello remained cautious. "Two good games doesn't make a pitcher, just like two bad games doesn't make a pitcher," said Militello. "I would like to do it on a consistent basis. Just go out there and help the team win." After pitching seven innings of one-hit ball in his debut against the Red Sox last Sunday, he was just as impressive tonight because he was facing a better offensive club with a mild stake in the pennant race. But it did not matter to Militello, who struck out Frank Thomas twice and held Tim Raines and Robin Ventura hitless. Militello threw 103 pitches, 65 for strikes, while walking three and striking out four. The Opposition Is Impressed Dan Pasqua reached Militello for a run-scoring single in the fourth and Dale Sveum had a bases-empty homer in the seventh, but that was all the White Sox mustered. George Bell and Thomas each told first baseman Don Mattingly they were impressed with the rookie.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Those are two pretty good hitters and they had respect for him," Mattingly said. "He's made some right-handed hitters look bad." The Yankees have had rookies get off to fast starts before as Scott Kamieniecki and Wade Taylor each began their stints last season with 2-0 records. But in such a gloomy atmosphere, with the Yankees skidding closer and closer toward last place, Militello gives them reason to hope. If he wins his next start against the Athletics Thursday, he would became the first Yankee rookie since Mel Stottlemyre in August of 1964 to win his first three games. "You think about those things regardless of where you are in the standings," said Showalter, about Militello's future. "A lot more needs to be proved until we can feel that way." The Yankees jumped on Hough for three runs and five hits in the third inning to give Militello an early cushion. Bernie Williams belted a 2-2 pitch into the right field seats for his third homer to make it 1-0. Danny Tartabull contributed a two-out run-scoring double and Mel Hall had a run-scoring single to increase it to 3-0. "I have no complaints," Militello said about his first two major league starts. "It's been fine with me the way things have turned out. I'm hopeful things will keep going from here." INSIDE PITCH STEVE FARR pitched the ninth for his 17th save as the second-largest crowd at Comiskey Park (42,834) went home unhappy. . . . MIKE GALLEGO will have the cast removed from his right wrist Tuesday and might be ready to play three weeks after that. He has not played since being hit by a pitch July 6. BUCK SHOWALTER said the Yankees are considering sending PAT KELLY to play winter ball. Kelly has had a disappointing season and the club would like to see him get more at-bats. . . . Before the game, Showalter said he had not yet spoken to SCOTT KAMIENIECKI about the pitcher's outburst on Friday night. He threw a wild pitch that scored the decisive run and then seemed to scream at catcher MATT NOKES. Kamieniecki has refused to comment on whether he was yelling at Nokes. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 16, 1992, on Page 8008003 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Yankee Fans Have a Question: Where Has Militello Been Hiding?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »