If Manchester United Manager Alex Ferguson presents his players with gifts on Saturday, his 70th birthday, they are more than likely to be powerful hairdryers. In the English Premier League’s early match, Manchester United lost to Blackburn, 3-2, its second loss at Old Trafford this season (indeed, only its second loss over all in the league) and only its second loss to Blackburn at its home stadium in 49 years. Blackburn began the day in last place. Before the match, Ferguson, who is in his 25th season in charge, said he had no plans to step down any time soon.  “I think I’ve got three years at the club,” Ferguson told the club’s Web site. “As long as my health stays up, and as long as I’m still enjoying it and still getting the satisfaction of the team doing its best.” After games like Saturday’s Ferguson might be rethinking his plans, losing a game which began with 34 points separating the two teams. While Ferguson probably could stay at Old Trafford as long as he likes, his opposite number Saturday, Rovers Manager Steve Kean, has been criticized by his club’s fans. Last week, after Blackburn’s loss to Bolton on Dec. 20, Ferguson had sent Kean a message of encouragement as Kean attempts to keep his young squad from relegation. “Sir Alex left a long message and I called him back,” Kean told The Guardian. “We had a good chat and I was very appreciative of his message of support, along with most other managers who have been in contact. Sir Alex’s enthusiasm and appetite is an inspiration to any young manager and coach. The amount of miles you see him covering. He will be at a Champions League game, then a reserve match, then you see him at other grounds. I know what his work ethic is like. For him to be at that level for so long and turn around so many teams at a club that size and continue to win is remarkable.” It is hard to know if Kean shared the message with his players, but it now does not seem to matter. With a chance to finish 2011 in first place after an up-and-down first half to the Premier League season (Manchester City plays at Sunderland on Sunday), United conceded a penalty kick in the 16th minute that was converted by Ayegbeni Yakubu. Yakubu made it 2-0 in the 51st minute when he beat an increasingly shaky David De Gea with a low shot. United sprang into action a cut the lead in half one minute later when Dimitar Berbatov, fresh off a hat trick against Wigan, scored. Berbatov tied the game in the 62nd minute off a pass from Antonio Valencia. United put on the pressure, assaulting the Blackburn goal, but failing to punch in the go-ahead goal. With 10 minutes left in normal time, Blackburn won a corner kick that Morten Gamst Pedersen sent to the far post where De Gea came out to punch the ball, but missed and fell to the turf. Hanley, a 20-year-old defender, headed the ball once, then followed the ball toward the goal line where he nodded it down and into the net for the game-winner. It was Hanley’s first career goal in the Premier League. “Obviously it’s a disappointment, we never expected that,” Ferguson told ESPN. “We lost two terrible goals in a game, you can’t do that in games like this.” Kean told ESPN, “It’s great to win and great to win in a place like this, it can be a springboard for us.” Was this one of the worst losses in Ferguson’s tenure? Is United playing with enough consistency to overhaul its crosstown rival City? Will the Blackburn victory give Kean a respite from the withering criticism he has recently faced? Goal, The New York Times soccer blog, will report on news and features from the world of soccer and around the Web.  Times editors and reporters will follow international tournaments and provide analysis of games. There will be interviews with players, coaches and notable soccer fans, as well as a weekly blog column by Red Bulls forward Jozy Altidore.  Readers can discuss Major League Soccer, foreign leagues and other issues with fellow soccer fans.
	 
			The Goal blog’s regular features, including live match analysis, player ratings from key matches, reader discussion, news and notes and more, can now be found on the soccer section front.Read more… 
			Crystal Palace won promotion to England’s Premier League on Monday. Now the club must retool under Manager Ian Holloway if it is to avoid relegation next season.Read more… 
			When congress opens, FIFA will be dealing with issues from President Sepp Blatter’s possible run for another term to accusations of vote-rigging among executive committee members.Read more… 
			Sacha Kljestan, who just won his second straight Belgian title with Anderlecht, could have a role to play for the United States in its exhibition against Belgium on Wednesday.Read more… 
			Alonso Hernandez, who plays in Mexico for Monterrey but has never represented the United States at any level, will get a chance to earn a place on the Under-20 World Cup team.Read more… Follow Advertisement