Advertisement By WILLIAM N. WALLACE and  When Lance Hamilton, a free-agent defensive back, was cut by the Giants in early August 1986, he secretly recorded a conversation he had with Coach Bill Parcells before departing from the team's Pace University training camp in Pleasantville, N.Y. That conversation was heard today by a jury of six men and two women as part of a civil suit Hamilton has brought against the Giants in the Superior Court of New Jersey. Hamilton charges that the Giants broke a promise to hire him as an assistant coach, and he has sued the team for breach of contract and racial discrimination. In the tape played in Judge Benedict Lucchi's courtroom at the Bergen County Court House, Parcells was heard to say to Hamilton, then 21 years old and newly graduated from Penn State: "I think you'd be a hell of a coach. I might be interested in you." Returns to Penn State According to the tape, Parcells suggested to Hamilton, who had never thought of coaching as a career, that he "include that in your possibilities . . . as a consideration." Advertisement The Giants' coach also encouraged Hamilton to "get some experience," which he did. He returned to Penn State and served as a graduate assistant coach under Joe Paterno during the Nittany Lions' 21-day spring practice in 1987. Advertisement Hamilton testified that he then wrote Parcells about employment and the Giants' coach replied that there were no openings but that he would keep the letter on file.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Parcells is expected to testify Friday or Monday, according to the Giants' attorney, Andrew Berry, who insisted that Hamilton had been presented only with the possibility of a coaching job and that none was available for him. Recorder Hidden in Gym Bag Hamilton testified that he had used the tape recorder, hidden in a thin nylon gym bag, only to furnish a record of the conversation that he could play back to his father. "I wanted to find out why I had been cut," he said. After gaining a master's degree in business administration at Penn State, Hamilton graduated from Yale Law School and now lives in Tampa, Fla., where he is a clerk with the United States Circuit Court of Appeals. His older brother, Harry, was also a defensive back at Penn State and later played with the New York Jets and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. Harry Hamilton was placed on the Plan B list by the Buccaneers last winter and is a free agent. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 29, 1992, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: FOOTBALL; Recorded Conversation Played In Civil Suit Against Giants.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »