Advertisement By JACK CURRY and  Two days ago, Pat Kelly was demoted to Class AAA as the Yankees made a roster spot for Jesse Barfield, who was coming off the disabled list. Tonight, Kelly rejoined the Yankees because Barfield was back on the list. Kelly was activated after Barfield incurred a recurrent sprain of his left wrist and was placed on the 15-day disabled list. Barfield reinjured his wrist swinging and missing at Frank Viola's changeup Wednesday night in Boston. "If you swing and hit the ball, it's no problem," said the team physician, Dr. Stuart Hershon. "It's when you miss when you can have the problem." Barfield's absence might stretch longer than 15 days because he had his left wrist operated on in 1987 and now it is troubling him again. The outfielder first injured the wrist last month when he slipped in a sauna. The club wanted him to rehabilitate himself for one week at Class AA Albany this week, but Barfield balked and played only two games in the minors. Advertisement Then, in his first game back in three weeks, Barfield injured his wrist again and went 0 for 3, lowering his batting average from .141 to .137. "It's a tough situation to be in," Barfield said. "I'm just going to let it heal and be patient." Kelly was disappointed when the Yankees activated Barfield and demoted him on Wednesday because Showalter had told him three weeks ago in Minnesota that he would not be sent to Class AAA Columbus. Though Kelly and Peter Grosz, his agent, met with the Yankees' assistant general manager, Bill Bergesch, Thursday at Yankee Stadium and explored various options, a friend of Kelly's said the 24-year old second baseman did not demand a trade. Advertisement "That's ridiculous," said the friend, who requested anonymity. "I don't think a guy hitting .224 is in a position to demand to be traded. Demand is the wrong word. It was one of the options discussed." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 20, 1992, on Page 1001033 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Quick Returns: Kelly to Yanks, Barfield to D.L.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »