Advertisement By JOSEPH SIANO You could refer to what will happen at Charlotte Motor Speedway two weeks from now as the dawn of an era in stock-car racing. But considering the schedule of events on May 16, it's more of a sunset on the age when racing lasted only as long as the daylight. On that date, Charlotte Speedway, a 1.5-mile superspeedway in the heart of stock-car country, will turn on the switch of a $1.7 million, 1.2 billion candlepower lighting system and at about 8:58 P.M. Eastern time, the Winston, a 105-mile series of sprint races, will be held under those lights. This will not be the first time that an event on Nascar's most prestigious circuit will take place at night. Bristol International Raceway in Tennessee and Richmond International Raceway in Virginia hold a Winston Cup race at night each year. Trend for Long Tracks? But Charlotte is longer than those two tracks combined, and if its owners can prove that a superspeedway can successfully and economically be illuminated, it could light the way for other long tracks on the Winston Cup circuit to do the same. Advertisement And that could open up room for new tracks on the crowded 29-race Winston Cup schedule. Most of the hundreds of tracks in the United States are small ovals of less than a half-mile in length, said Humpy Wheeler, president and general manager of Charlotte Motor Speedway, and just about all of them run weekly programs on Friday and Saturday nights, featuring local heroes on the bottom rungs of the sport. "So it's just a logical extension of the grass-roots of racing," Wheeler said, describing Charlotte's decision to go to lighting. Advertisement By being able to race at night, Wheeler said, his track could hold a race in summer, normally too hot for a daytime event. In Case of Rain Charlotte's main race is the Coca-Cola 600, run on Memorial Day weekend. "If we ran into problems, say, with the 600 and we only had 210 miles in and it rained, we could finish the race under the lights," Wheeler said. "And track rentals near urban areas are a big source of revenue," he said, adding that last year the track was rented for 254 days, close to its limit. "This will literally be able to double our track rental," Wheeler said. Even though Charlotte's 600-mile race draws more than 100,000 spectators, it exists in the shadow of a certain race held that weekend in Indiana. But the lights could help eliminate that shadow. "We might look at moving back the starting time," Wheeler said, referring to the 600-mile race. With the Indy 500 starting at noon and ending about 3 P.M., a later start in Charlotte could eliminate much of the conflict in television scheduling. Extensive but Inexpensive  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. There are 1,200 fixtures -- each with a 1,500-watt bulb -- in Charlotte's lighting system, which was designed and installed by Musco Lighting, an Iowa firm that also lit the movie "Dances With Wolves" and the Statue of Liberty rededication. Despite all that illumination, needed to be so bright because the cars don't use headlights, Wheeler estimated his electric bill would be only $200 per hour. "We knew that going in," said Wheeler. "That's the first thing we checked." He credited the efficiency of Duke Power, the local utility, for the low cost. Paul Sawyer, president of Richmond Raceway, spoke about the benefits of night racing last September, a few hours before the lights went on for his Winston Cup race. Advertisement "I'm not saying I'm setting a trend," Sawyer said, "but the way I look at it, I've never been in favor of Monday rain dates." He had to use one in 1988, and it caused traffic nightmares because the track is on one of the main highways linking Richmond to its suburbs. "I had people sitting in line three hours, and they never could get in the raceway because of the traffic," Sawyer said. Now, by being able to schedule a race Saturday night, Sawyer has a Sunday rain date to fall back on. He thinks that if more Winston Cup tracks light up and go to Saturday race dates, some of the weekends kept open as rain dates could be used for events at new tracks. Sawyer rebuilt the Richmond track in 1988. Between his race in February and the one in September, he tore it down completely and replaced it with a modern three-quarter-mile track that now has about 60,000 seats. His isn't the only first-class oval track in the country. At least two others -- Pennsylvania International Raceway in Nazareth and New Hampshire International Speedway in Loudon -- want a Winston Cup race, but Nascar can't find room on the schedule. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 4, 1992, on Page C00009 of the National edition with the headline: AUTO RACING; Lights, Action, Nascar: Charlotte's New Nightspot.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »