Advertisement By RICHARD SANDOMIR Not only are fans not watching the Mets at Shea Stadium in mass quantities, they're not watching them in droves on television. Through Sunday, the Mets' average Nielsen rating on WWOR-TV has tumbled 27 percent, from 7.3 after 47 games last year to 5.3 now. By comparison, the Yankees' rating on WPIX-TV through 29 games has risen to a 4.8 from 4.6 last season. Ratings on the stations generally reflect viewing on SportsChannel and the MSG Network, the Mets' and Yankees' cable outlets, respectively. With few important games, the Mets' television performance has stagnated for two months -- coinciding with the team's decline -- and has not recovered since June 2, when the team reached its highest post-opening day prime-time rating of 7.9. Advertisement The Mets rose a bit on the Nielsen meter over the weekend with ratings of nearly 5.5 for victories against the San Francisco Giants. Advertisement Lower ratings mean reduced ad revenues for WWOR. Tom Ryan, WWOR's general sales manager, said: "We're in the same recession everybody else is in. We're not that far off last year. But the third quarter is not strong." The bulk of WWOR's commercial time on Mets' games was purchased before the season, but the station isn't getting any extra gravy from new clients signing up during the season with short-term commitments. Mike Siegel, senior vice president of Vitt Media International, a media buyer said, "Nobody's been clamoring for the Mets or Yankees." The Yankees' ratings on WPIX, which finished at 4.4 last year, haven't had as far to fall as those of the Mets, who wrapped up 1991 at 6.1. The Mets have fallen hard when compared with last year, but the Yankees have stumbled badly in the last two months, experiencing a 28 percent ratings downdraft since May 22. In that period, the Mets' rating is flat.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. No Yankee game has rated above 5.0 in a month. Sunday afternoon's game against the California Angels rated a mere 3.0, the nadir of the season. Yet, Yankees advertising sales are up about 15 percent over last year. MSG, which sells ads for itself and WPIX, enlisted more upfront sponsorships this year. "Advertisers feel the team has been competitive all year and they're fun to watch," said Andi Poch, MSG's director of ad sales. "It's live, fresh summer programming that advertisers find appealing." Advertisement Baseball ratings and advertising often reflect how successful or promising a team is, not necessarily whether fans love Tim McCarver's analysis on WWOR or can't figure out whether WPIX's Phil Rizzuto is on Earth or Pluto. But for those who care about the coverage, the TV announcing teams offer wide variety: McCarver-Ralph Kiner (WWOR): They define teamwork better than the others. On top of his skillful, punnish and puckish analysis, McCarver's care and feeding of Kiner is masterly. Ralphie Boy is at his best when spinning yarns and McCarver is ever eager to lead Kiner into temptation. Theirs is the best example of bantering that doesn't require a play-by-play man to right them. Kiner's malaprops are legendary, but part of the texture of his work; they are easily forgiven because they're funny and Kiner is engaged in the games. Tony Kubek-DeWayne Staats (MSG): The most straightforward duo. Kubek is McCarver's equal as an analyst, but looks pained to show a lighter side when Al Trautwig tries to prod him into humor. Kubek and Staats are the "Dragnet" team, giving just the facts. Kubek fits more analysis into 60 seconds than most of his colleagues offer in 60 minutes; his tendency to be harsh on players shows an admirable independence. Kiner-Fran Healy-Rusty Staub (SportsChannel): Serviceable but bland. Staub and Healy are not distinguished analysts by any measure, and Staub stumbles over his thoughts too often, even in taped segments. Healy and Staub are close friends and know baseball, but their voices and insights are not clarion calls to listen. Neither elicits what McCarver does from Kiner, who seems less interested in the games on SportsChannel. Rizzuto-Tom Seaver-Bobby Murcer (WPIX): PHIL'S WORLD! PARTY TIME! EXCELLENT! A frat party at each game, overseen by chief chaperone Rizzuto. Phil's fans suggest you have to let Rizzuto be Rizzuto. Maybe. But if Rizzuto were less engaged, he'd spend all nine innings on the George Washington Bridge. "Are you listening to me, Seaver?" he keeps asking. Vintage Rizzuto used to listen to his partners better, which sparked the broadcasts. Listening to Seaver and Murcer sans Rizzuto is becoming a marginally more rewarding experience if you want to know what's happening in the game. On the radio side, WFAN's Bob Murphy and Gary Cohen are a sparkling duo on the Mets, who improve year-to-year. Murphy's word images and Cohen's straightforward, playful style make for lovely listening. On WABC's Yankees broadcasts, all one can say is, "Poor Michael Kay." He will never learn anything positive from partner John Sterling, whose shilling for George Steinbrenner and digressions from the game are poor examples for the rookie announcer. Kay has a weak radio voice and is too absolute in his judgments. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 21, 1992, on Page B00010 of the National edition with the headline: TV SPORTS; Yoo-Hoo! Is Anybody Home? It's Mets and Yanks Calling.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »