Advertisement  TENNIS  No. 230 Bounces Becker  Boris Becker, playing in a clay-court tournament for the first time since June, was beaten by 230th-ranked Jordi Burillo, 1-6, 7-6, 6-4, yesterday in the Conde de Godo tournament in Barcelona, Spain. Becker, who has never won a tournament on clay and often struggles on the slow surface, took control early, but then lost his touch. Burillo, a 19-year-old native of Barcelona, was playing in his second ATP Tour event. He had to qualify, and then defeated Carl-Uwe Steeb in the first round. Second-seeded Ivan Lendl, fifth-seeded Sergi Bruguera, seventh-seeded Alberto Mancini and eighth-seeded Magnus Gustafsson all won to advance to the quarterfinals. (AP) Edberg and Courier Advance: Stefan Edberg of Sweden and Jim Courier of the United States, locked in a tight battle for the world's top ranking, advanced to the quarterfinals of the Japan Open in Tokyo. Edberg, ranked No. 1, relied on his serve to beat 15th-seeded Wally Masur of Australia, 6-3, 6-3. Courier, who is trying to regain the top ranking, which he held in February, defeated 16th-seeded Gianluca Pozzi of Italy, 6-3, 6-3. (AP) Graf Moves to Quarterfinals: Brenda Schultz has always admired Steffi Graf's game. She thought that respect cost her a chance to upset the top-seeded player in the Bausch & Lomb Championships at Amelia Island, Fla. Graf advanced to the quarterfinals of the clay-court tournament with a 6-2, 6-2 victory over Schultz in a match that was closer than indicated by the final score. Graf, seeded first in the tournament, broke Schultz in the sixth game to go up, 4-2, in each set, then didn't have much difficulty finishing off her opponent from the Netherlands. Joining Graf in the quarterfinals were Leila Meskhi, who beat Patty Fendick, 6-2, 6-2; No. 3-seeded Arantxa Sanchez Vicario, a 6-0, 6-2 third-round winner over Ines Gorrochategui; No. 4-seeded Conchita Martinez, who defeated Sandra Cecchini, 6-2, 6-0, and No. 8-seeded Zina Garrison, who beat Natalya Zvereva, 6-3, 6-1. (AP) GOLF  Three Tied for Lead  Jeff Barlow, who was playing professional golf in South Africa as recently as February, charged into a three-way tie for the lead yesterday after the first round of the Deposit Guaranty tournament in Hattiesburg, Miss. Barlow missed a 4-foot birdie putt on No. 18 at the Hattiesburg Country Club, missing a chance to take sole possession after the first round of the $300,000 event. Instead, he settled into a tie at the top of the leader board with Mark Carnevale and Greg Twiggs at five-under-par 65. (AP) We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 10, 1992, on Page B00017 of the National edition with the headline: RESULTS PLUS.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »