Advertisement By JAIME DIAZ and  Raymond Floyd put aside potentially distracting thoughts of advanced age and the fire that recently destroyed his home and shot a second consecutive 67 today to gain a one-shot lead at the Doral Ryder Open. The 49-year-old Floyd, making his 24th appearance in a tournament he won in 1980 and 1981, made five birdies and no bogeys on Doral's Blue Monster to post a 36-hole total of 10-under-par 134. A stroke behind is Keith Clearwater, who had a 67, and first round leader Fred Couples, who had a 69 in his quest for a second consecutive PGA Tour victory. At 136 were two other players in the over-40 bracket, 1988 champion Ben Crenshaw, who is 40, and 46-year-old Hale Irwin. Headed for Senior Tour "Age is something that I don't really think about," said Floyd, who is planning to join the Senior Tour when he turns 50 on Sept. 4. "You can handle it mentally. If you are physically fit, age should not affect you in golf." Advertisement Nor did the painful memories of losing his six-bedroom home on Indian Creek Island, Fla., in a fire on Feb. 19 interrupt his play.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "I'm just not a person who tends to dwell on things," said Floyd. "People in the gallery have mentioned how sorry they are, but it hasn't preoccupied me. You truly only need to concentrate for about a 10-second span before and during the shot. That's all concentration is in golf." Floyd, whose last won on the PGA Tour in 1986, said that he recently changed his swing back to a more upright plane, which is a more natural motion for him. Advertisement "My quality of play has been at its highest level for me," said Floyd. "Until recently, I've been in a putting slump, but that is coming back. I've always taken pride in being as good as anyone around that green." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 7, 1992, on Page 1001035 of the National edition with the headline: GOLF; Floyd Tunes Out Distractions.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »