Tommy Haas may be 33 — the oldest player left in the draw — and ranked 400-something in the world, but when healthy, he can still play, as he demonstrated by ousting Alejandro Falla in straight sets Thursday. In his prime, Haas was a legitimate contender to win a Grand Slam title, and he came close a number of times: Haas was a three-time semifinalist in Australia, and three-time quarterfinalist here. It was injuries that always seemed to slow Haas down. And, true to form, Haas returned this spring from a 14-month hiatus to recover from hip and shoulder problems. His next opponent, Juan Monaco, of Argentina, is another clay-court specialist, but is a tad more dangerous on hard courts than Falla. He beat Haas in three tough sets just a couple weeks ago in Cincinnati, but I’m betting with the crowd behind him Haas will have just enough to pull this one out. Jelena Jankovic vs. Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova: The big question in this matchup is Jankovic’s back, which the former No. 1 and 2007 runner up injured during her second round win over Jelena Dokic. Jankovic was clearly not at her best, but was able to brush Dokic aside in straight sets. If healthy and playing like the Jankovic of a few years ago, this could be one of the very best matches of the day. At 20, Pavlyuchenkova is a rising star who is one of the biggest hitters on the women’s side, and Jankovic one of its best defenders. The last time these two met back in February, Pavlyuchenkova won in three sets, and there’s no reason this one can’t go the distance again if Jankovic is healthy. Marcel Granollers vs. Juan Carlos Ferrero: It has been eight years since Ferrero held the No. 1 ranking, but he scored a huge upset on Thursday by ousting seventh-seeded Gael Monfils in five sets. Ferrero isn’t the player he was in 2003 when he won the French Open and was the runner-up here, but the 31-year-old clearly has some game left in him. His opponent and countryman, Marcel Granollers, is having a career year, with recent wins against over Stanislas Wawrinka, Mikhail Youzhny and Fernando Verdasco on his way to his first A.T.P. title in July. But that was on clay, not hard courts, where Granollers has not had great success and Ferrero has always had it. Unless he is feeling the effects of his nearly five-hour battle with Monfils, Ferrero should pull this one out. Andrea Petkovic vs. Roberta Vinci: Like Pavlyuchenkova/Jankovic, this match pits offense against defense. And like Pavlyuchenkova/Jankovic, the question here is health — in this case that of Petkovic’s right knee, which she injured at a tournament last month. When healthy, Petkovic is a dynamic player on court, and a crowd favorite both for her aggressive playing style (which has gotten her to No. 10 in the world) and her signature victory dances. Petkovic played through pain to beat a tough player in Jie Zheng of China in the second round, while Vinci had a convincing win over Alize Cornet. Vinci doesn’t have the biggest strokes on the tour, but she is quick around the court, has a nice forehand and slice backhand. If Petkovic’s knee holds up, this could be a highly entertaining match. * Sloane Stephens vs. Ana Ivanovic: Stephens, yet another up-and-coming American teenager, scored one of the biggest wins of her young professional career on Thursday beating the No. 23 seed Shahar Peer. Things don’t get any easier today when she takes on the former world No. 1. * Jo-Wilfried Tsonga vs. Fernando Verdasco: Two of the biggest forehands in the game. This should be a highly entertaining slugfest. * Kevin Anderson vs. Mardy Fish: A tougher test for Fish than it seems on paper. Anderson, who just missed being seeded here, has a huge serve, and solid all-court game. He took out the No. 25 seed Michael Llodra easily in the second round. * Roger Federer vs. Marin Cilic: As always, which Cilic shows up here? If Cilic plays like he did on Thursday, Federer could be in for a tough match. Journalists from The New York Times and The International Herald Tribune (along with a few dedicated fans) are following the Grand Slam tournaments, on and off the court. They will provide updates, insights, links and analysis while setting the scene from the stands as well as the press room. 
			This blog’s regular features, including live tournament analysis, news and notes from Christopher Clarey, Ben Rothenberg and others, and other coverage, can now be found on the tennis section front.Read more… 
			Venus Williams, ranked No. 63, beat No. 2 Victoria Azarenka in Tokyo on Tuesday, her first win over a player in the top two since 2009.Read more… 
			The United States learned on Wednesday that it would host a first-round tie with Britain for the 2014 Davis Cup.Read more… 
			According to one celebrity marketing index, Andy Murray is the most appealing of the so-called Big Four in men’s tennis. Read more… 
			Sloane Stephens walked the runway Thursday night in the Just Dance With Boy Meets Girl fashion show, modeling the designs of Stacy Igel.Read more… Advertisement