The new manager of Glasgow Rangers, Ally McCoist, clearly has an affinity for American soccer players. Hot on the heels of signing Alejandro Bedoya from Orebro of Sweden, the Scottish Premier League club landed the captain of the United States national team, defender Carlos Bocanegra, 32, from St. Etienne of France’s Ligue 1 for an undisclosed transfer fee. Rangers’ Web site reported that Bocanegra has signed a three-year contract. In addition to Bedoya, Bocanegra joins midfielder Maurice Edu, who has been with Rangers since 2008. It turned into a lightning quick turnaround for Bocanegra, who played for Rangers in Thursday night’s Europa Cup loss against Maribor in Slovenia. Bocanegra was signed on Wednesday and joined his new teammates immediately in Slovenia. “The move came as a bit of a surprise because I had a good situation in France,” Bocanegra, who has played nearly 100 times for the United States, told the club’s Web site. “I was happy there and not looking to leave. Rangers have lots of history, though, and you can’t say no to them.” “I was very excited when I heard there was interest from Rangers,” he said. “The possibility of coming to Rangers and looking for titles and trophies is awesome. You don’t get a chance to do that kind of thing too much in your career. It’s just fantastic to be here.” Coincidentally, Bocanegra was part of a contingent of Americans who recently played for Fulham, earning the English Premier League club the moniker Fulhamerica. Good move for Boca and Bedoya? A step down for Bocanegra? A step up for Bedoya? Do you think Bocanegra could still be part of U.S. Coach Jurgen Klinsmann’s plans for World Cup qualifying?  Goal, The New York Times soccer blog, will report on news and features from the world of soccer and around the Web.  Times editors and reporters will follow international tournaments and provide analysis of games. There will be interviews with players, coaches and notable soccer fans, as well as a weekly blog column by Red Bulls forward Jozy Altidore.  Readers can discuss Major League Soccer, foreign leagues and other issues with fellow soccer fans.
	 
			The Goal blog’s regular features, including live match analysis, player ratings from key matches, reader discussion, news and notes and more, can now be found on the soccer section front.Read more… 
			Crystal Palace won promotion to England’s Premier League on Monday. Now the club must retool under Manager Ian Holloway if it is to avoid relegation next season.Read more… 
			When congress opens, FIFA will be dealing with issues from President Sepp Blatter’s possible run for another term to accusations of vote-rigging among executive committee members.Read more… 
			Sacha Kljestan, who just won his second straight Belgian title with Anderlecht, could have a role to play for the United States in its exhibition against Belgium on Wednesday.Read more… 
			Alonso Hernandez, who plays in Mexico for Monterrey but has never represented the United States at any level, will get a chance to earn a place on the Under-20 World Cup team.Read more… Follow Advertisement