Advertisement By WILLIAM N. WALLACE and  Mike Gilmore displayed a self-conscious smile when the contingent of Michigan State fans cheered and clapped as he entered the Holiday Inn lobby here 15 minutes after midnight this morning. The diffident 24-year-old Gilmore was the hero of the moment for what he had just accomplished in the building next door, the Civic Center, in the last 20 minutes of the Spartans' remarkable hockey victory over Maine. The event was the last game of the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament's East Regional. "Just lucky," he had said. Nonsense was the retort from the coaches, Ron Mason of Michigan State and his son-in-law, Shawn Walsh of Maine. 20 Shots, 20 Saves The Spartans held a 3-2 lead all through that intense third period against the team widely acclaimed as the best in college hockey. Turning up their speed game to its highest level, the Black Bears took shot after shot at Gilmore: 20 shots and 20 saves. Advertisement When it was over, with Maine the fifth and last Eastern team to be eliminated, Walsh said: "It's sad, it's sick, to play that well and lose. But that's hockey. Credit No. 30. We had the shots, and I mean good shots, right in on him." Advertisement The 52-year-old Mason, speaking of his daughter and son-in-law, said: "I feel sorry for Tracey and Shawn, and I know how they feel. I've been there." Mason has been a hockey coach for 26 years, and he recalled how another underdog with a torrid goaltender, Providence College and Chris Terreri, eliminated the Spartans, who had won 38 of 44 games, in the 1985 N.C.A.A. tournament. Terreri had already been drafted by the New Jersey Devils, his present team. The parallel? Gilmore, a fifth-year senior from Detroit, was drafted by the Rangers two years ago. Tough Format "I still think Maine is the best team," Mason said, a comment reiterated by Walsh, who added, "That's what can happen in a single-elimination tournament."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The format for the 12-team tournament was changed this year, from a two-of-three-game series at campus sites in the first and quarterfinal rounds to two single-elimination regional tournaments, East and West. The decision is still being debated among the coaches. "Isn't the object to get the four best possible teams into the semifinals?" asked Joe Marsh of St. Lawrence. "Then Maine belongs." Marsh had no quibble with Wisconsin's 5-2 victory over his Saints in the other game here Saturday night. The Badgers, said Marsh, "certainly proved they belong at Albany." That city's Knickerbocker Arena will be the site on Thursday and Saturday of the semifinals and the N.C.A.A. championship game. The title was won last year by Northern Michigan over Boston University, 8-7, in three overtimes at St. Paul. Advertisement Wisconsin will play Michigan, which defeated Northern Michigan, 7-6, tonight in Detroit. Michigan State will meet Lake Superior State, which defeated Minnesota, 8-3, this afternoon. Since the N.C.A.A. hockey tournament began in 1948, only twice -- 1981 and 1984 -- have there been no Eastern teams in the semifinals. The games Saturday night were similar in that Michigan State (25-10-8) and Wisconsin (25-13-2) both played outstanding defensive hockey, neutralizing the speed of the smaller Maine and St. Lawrence teams. The Saints had only 23 shots on goal. "The chances we did get were few and far between," said Marsh. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 30, 1992, on Page C00007 of the National edition with the headline: COLLEGE HOCKEY; Gilmore Brings Cheer to Michigan State's N.C.A.A. Title Quest.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »