Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJUNE 23, 2014
 Chris Davis interrupted his frustrating season with a pinch-hit, three-run homer in the ninth inning to give the host Baltimore Orioles a 6-4 victory over the Chicago White Sox on Monday night. Davis was excluded from the starting lineup after batting just .130 in his previous 14 starts. Called upon by Manager Buck Showalter with runners on first and second and one out in the ninth, Davis launched a 3-2 pitch from Ronald Belisario (3-4) into the seats in right field. Davis, who led the majors in home runs and runs batted in last year, started the game in the dugout, with a .216 batting average and 78 strikeouts in 218 at-bats. Adam Jones and Caleb Joseph also homered for the Orioles, who trailed, 4-2, in the eighth before rallying to hand the White Sox their fifth straight defeat. Advertisement Brad Brach (1-0) pitched two hitless innings for Baltimore. CARDINALS 8, ROCKIES 0 Lance Lynn allowed three hits in eight innings, and Matt Adams ignited the offense with two homers and a career-high six R.B.I. as St. Louis beat host Colorado. Advertisement Lynn (8-5) struck out seven and walked none before being taken out for the ninth after throwing 108 pitches. ROYALS 5, DODGERS 3 Jeremy Guthrie pitched into the eighth inning, Jarrod Dyson drove in two runs off Zack Greinke and host Kansas City beat Los Angeles to end a four-game skid.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Guthrie (5-6) allowed two runs and seven hits while winning his third straight start. He was buoyed by an offense that had scored only eight runs during its recent slide. MARLINS 4, PHILLIES 0 Casey McGehee hit a two-run double, Nathan Eovaldi pitched six-hit ball into the seventh inning and visiting Miami defeated Philadelphia. Eovaldi (5-3) went six and a third innings and got 12 of his 19 outs on fly balls. He had not won since May 26. NATIONALS 3, BREWERS 0 Gio Gonzalez combined with three relievers to hold Milwaukee’s potent lineup to three hits, and Adam LaRoche hit a three-run homer to help visiting Washington top the Brewers. REDS 6, CUBS 1 Devin Mesoraco hit a grand slam with two outs in Cincinnati’s five-run ninth inning, leading the visiting Reds over Chicago. PIRATES 8, RAYS 1 Pedro Alvarez hit a three-run homer to back the pitching of Edinson Volquez and lead visiting Pittsburgh past Tampa Bay. A version of this article appears in print on June 24, 2014, on Page B12 of the New York edition with the headline: Benched to Start Game, Davis Rescues the Orioles.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »