Advertisement By TIMOTHY W. SMITH and  The Jets' defense, reshuffled to compensate for injuries to defensive ends Jeff Lageman and Dennis Byrd, took a deep breath going into last week's game against New England. The players acquitted themselves admirably, coming up with seven sacks and two interceptions, in the Jets' first victory of the season. Now, the Jets' defense can't exhale. The Colts, using the no-huddle offense brought from Buffalo by the new coach, Ted Marchibroda, will present the Jets' defense with little breathing room when the two teams meet Sunday (4 P.M.) at the Indianapolis Hoosier Dome. And that could be crucial considering the Jets' propensity for rotating fresh players on the defensive line. "It inhibits us from substituting as much as we normally would," said Jets defensive tackle Paul Frase. "If a guy gets winded you have to stick it out for a few extra plays before you can get somebody else in there. With the no-huddle it's obviously harder to get a guy in off the sidelines." Familiar-Looking Offense Advertisement Jets Coach Bruce Coslet isn't worried about matching up against the Colts' no-huddle offense. The Jets have seen the offense twice a year for the last two years against Buffalo. Advertisement The Colts, like Buffalo, run their no-huddle with three wide receivers, one running back and one tight end, and they do everything, including third-and-long and short-yardage situations, from the set. Because the offensive personnel remains constant throughout a drive, and because the offense gets back to the line of scrimmage quickly, it doesn't allow defenses easy substitutions. . But Coslet said the Indianapolis offense is not the same type of no-huddle that Cincinnati ran when he was the offensive coordinator with the Bengals. "They call plays and go," he said. "They don't try to quick snap if you try to change personnel or anything like that. We'll match up with what they put on the field and play." The Colts don't have the same talent in their no-huddle attack that the Bills have. Indianapolis's version of Bills running back Thurman Thomas is Anthony Johnson. Colts receivers Jessie Hester and Bill Brooks take the roles of the Bills' James Lofton and Andre Reed. And Colts tight end Kevin Call acts as Bills tight end Keith Metzelaars. Marchibroda was delicate when talking about the differences between the personnel in Buffalo's no-huddle and the Colts' offense.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "The no-huddle is the no-huddle," Marchibroda said. "What we have to do in Indianapolis is what we feel our people can do best. That's what we did in Buffalo." The main thing that the Colts' no-huddle has going for it is quarterback Jeff George. He is such an integral part of what the Colts are doing with the no-huddle that they did not use the offense while George was out for the first three games of the season because of torn ligaments in his right thumb. "It was something that we worked on in preseason and training camp," Marchibroda said. "Jeff George received the majority of the work. When he got hurt we definitely couldn't use it. We waited until he got healthy again." Advertisement Last week against the Buccaneers in Tampa, Fla., George got his first opportunity to run the offense. He got off to a shaky start, completing just 3-of-13 pass attempts and throwing two interceptions in the first half. He didn't remind anyone of Bills quarterback Jim Kelly. But he warmed to the offense in the second half, completing 12 of 20 for 177 yards two touchdowns and one interception and led the Colts to a surprising 24-14 victory and lifted their record to 2-2 for the season. George, one of the most harried quarterbacks in the league last year, getting sacked 56 times, likes operating with the no-huddle. "The main thing is having the flexibility of calling your own plays," George said. "I'm not so sure it's an advantage. It just tires a lot of people out. Not only our guys but the defense gets tired. And you're able to do more. "It was tough last week in Tampa because of the heat. The main thing is that you're not able to do a lot of substituting on offense or defense and you're able to do a lot more." EXTRA POINTS Receiver ROB MOORE, who didn't practice Wednesday, is the only Jets player on the injury report. Moore is listed as probable for the Colts game this Sunday because of a bruised knee. . . . Strong safety BRIAN WASHINGTON (sore shoulder) also didn't practice Wednesday. . . . The Jets waived tight end ERIC KATTUS and activated rookie tackle SIUPELI MALAMALA, out with a shoulder injury, from injured reserve. Tight end JOHNNY MITCHELL (shoulder injury) was activated from injured reserve to the practice squad. . . . Cornerback TONY STARGELL (knee injury), the Jets' third-round pick in 1990 who was cut before the start of the season and picked up by the Colts, is listed as questionable for the game. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 8, 1992, on Page B00032 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL; No-Huddle Means No Time For Jets' Defense to Adjust.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »