Advertisement Supported by Mets 9, Marlins 1 By Tim Rohan The Mets celebrated the last win of their best homestand in four years by shaking hands and patting one another on the back. They had just won their eighth of 10 games against Texas, Atlanta and Miami, a 9-1 victory over the Marlins on Sunday at Citi Field.  They had pitched well. They had hit well. They had looked dominant. Yet their greatest accomplishment may lay in that moment, in how natural and ordinary they made it look.  The Mets had not won so many games in a homestand since April 2010, when they won nine, and the run might end up saving their season. They enter the All-Star break with a 45-50 record, seven games out of first place in the National League East.  What is more, they believe their current play is sustainable, they said. Manager Terry Collins said the Mets were making all the correct plays, the unselfish plays, moving runners over, taking extra bases. If they make outs, their outs are productive. They have faith that the next batter will deliver.  Their hitting approach is mostly unchanged: They are still waiting for the right pitch to drive. But Lamar Johnson, their new hitting coach, has also stressed putting the ball in play and living with the consequences. And the consequences are mostly good. Entering Sunday, the Mets led the National League in home runs since June 17. They did not add another to their total on Sunday, but they raised their average over the homestand to 5.5 runs a game, about 1.6 more than they had been scoring this season. Up and down the order, players continued to contribute.  The home runs, the distributed production and the unselfish play have relaxed the Mets. They have not seemed to worry as much or act as cautious. Their confidence has grown with each game, as if they are proving to themselves that their approach works, that they can impose their will against any team and that, if all else fails, they can come from behind. “Younger players with confidence and a little cockiness can be dangerous,” David Wright said. “Once they get a little taste of that success, get a little taste of what it feels like to go out there and play well over a long period of time, a nice stretch, they start going up there expecting to get hits rather than hoping to get hits or expecting to make pitches rather than hoping to make their pitches.” That swagger was evident Sunday. The rookie Jacob DeGrom, in his 12th career start, struck out eight batters and allowed one run over seven innings, lowering his earned run average to 3.18. His ascent has mirrored that of the Mets: Over his past five starts, he has allowed only six runs.  DeGrom (3-5) might have kept the Marlins scoreless, too, if not for a defensive miscue in the fourth inning. Eric Campbell, who was starting at second base for the first time this season, appeared to lose a pop fly in the afternoon sun, and Curtis Granderson, the right fielder, apparently did not notice. The ball landed safely between them; an out would have ended the inning. The next batter, Marcell Ozuna, reached on an infield single, and a run scored to tie the game at 1-1.  Earlier in the season, even two weeks ago, this was the kind of sequence that hurt the Mets’ confidence. But deGrom struck out the next batter, and the Mets’ offense, having learned to counterpunch, responded with four runs over the next three innings.  Again, everyone contributed. DeGrom hit a two-out, run-scoring single for his first career run batted in. Granderson, Juan Lagares and Wright each added run-scoring doubles. And the Mets finally broke the Marlins’ spirit by adding four more runs in the eighth inning. Afterward, the mood was light as the players packed for the four-day break. They said that despite their momentum, it was much needed. Wright would get a chance to rest his shoulder, which recently forced him to miss seven games. He was given a cortisone shot after Sunday’s game and indicated it was precautionary. Reinforcements were also on the way. Jon Niese, on the 15-day disabled list with a tired shoulder, pitched two simulated innings Sunday and said he felt great. If all goes well, he will rejoin the rotation after the break. Dillon Gee, who just returned after missing two months with a back injury, will also have time to regroup.  In addition, Sandy Alderson, the Mets’ general manager, had said he would be using this homestand to evaluate the team before deciding what to do at the trade deadline, and there may now be a greater chance he will seek to add a bat.  With Wright saying the team was poised to make a run at the heavyweights atop the N.L. East, the Mets were talking as if they were already contenders.  “What we’ve shown the last 10 days is, yes, we can compete,” Collins said. “Now, we’ve got 67 more games; we’ve got to go out and do it. We can’t just talk about it. We got to go do it. But I think if we can continue to play like this, September is going to be a fun month.”      Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS