Advertisement By JAIME DIAZ and  While Tom Kite was surviving the perils of United States Open afterglow, five golfers overcame the tricky winds and high rough of the venerable Westchester Country Club today to tie for the first-round lead of the Buick Classic. Steve Elkington, Bob Tway, David Frost, Ted Schulz and Greg Kraft all shot four-under-par 67's as Westchester's 70-year-old course once again ably resisted the PGA Tour's best attempts to humble it. Trailing the leading five were five golfers at 68 and four at 69. Kite, meanwhile, was happy to be one of the 10 golfers at one-under-par 70. "I'm very relieved it's over with," said Kite, the newly crowned United States Open champion. "This is a tough golf course, and I got it in the red." In fact, only 25 of the starting field of 156 were able to break par 71 on a day in which gusting winds swirled through and around the tree bordered, rough-lined fairways of Westchester. The conditions, complete with small, firm greens, were not drastically different from what the golfers encountered last week at Pebble Beach. Advertisement "This is like a miniature U.S. Open course," Elkington said. "You can't attack it." All four of the leaders needed excellent putting rounds to post their scores. Schulz had nine one-putt greens, and made four second putts longer than five feet. Frost had the most dramatic round. Advertisement After a one-over-par 37 on the back nine, Frost had 10 putts on the front nine for a closing 30. He saved the best for last, holing a 30-footer on the 505-yard par five ninth to give him five birdies on his final six holes. There is nothing in Frost's recent record that could have foretold his opening round. Currently 125th on this year's PGA Tour money list with less than $59,000 in earnings and seven missed cuts in 12 tournaments, the South African's last victory came in New Orleans in 1990, when he holed a sand shot on the 72d hole to defeat Greg Norman. Falling Out of the Swing  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Renowned for having one of the finest swings on the tour, Frost thinks his game has disintegrated under the mental weight of becoming too analytical. "I've just been very mechanical with my golf game," said the 32-year-old resident of Dallas, who has worked in recent years with a swing coach, David Leadbetter. "I'm just trying to eliminate all swing thoughts, just play an average game like some 16- or 17-year-old would play." The 33-year-old Tway is in a remarkably similar boat. Along with having beaten Norman with a holed sand shot at the final hole to win the 1986 P.G.A. Championship and winning his last event in 1990, Tway, who also works with Leadbetter, is going through a similar transition with his swing. "I'm trying to get back to what feels comfortable for me," said Tway, who has missed 7 of 13 cuts and stands 167th on the money list. "I was getting a little too mechanical. Today I played as good a round as I've played in a long time. Maybe this is the start of something." CHIP SHOTS The P.G.A. champion, JOHN DALY, withdrew from the tournament when he missed a flight from Denver on Monday night after having an altercation with a flight attendant. Daly said he asked to get off after a stewardess was rude to him. Because he missed the flight, Daly was unable to fulfill a commitment Tuesday to attend a junior clinic at Westchester. The same day, Daly's agent, BUD MARTIN , told tournament officials his client was withdrawing because he wanted to spend time with his wife and two-week-old daughter. According to PGA Tour rules, Daly has two weeks to submit in writing his reasons for missing the event. If he is found to have violated tour policy, he will be suject to a fine of up to $1,000. CBS Sports has scheduled an interview with Daly on the subject to air during the telecast of the final round Sunday. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 26, 1992, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: GOLF; All Bunched Together in Westchester.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »