Rafael Nadal, a player who has had various injuries and ailments throughout his impressive career, expressed some frank thoughts on the destructive nature of elite sports in his new memoir, “Rafa.” “Playing sports is a good thing for ordinary people,” he wrote.  “Sport played at the professional level is not good for your health.” The 2011 U.S. Open certainly doesn’t seem to have been good for the health of the players. Plagued by a right shoulder injury, No. 9 seed Tomas Berdych became the highest-profile player to drop out of the tournament mid-match in the men’s singles field.  Trailing No. 20 seed Janko Tipsarevic 6-4, 5-0, having lost eight consecutive games, Berdych pulled the ripcord, citing a right shoulder injury. The ailment also forced him to retire against Novak Djokovic in the semifinals of Cincinnati, his previous tournament (Djokovic himself retired in his next match, also citing right shoulder woes). Although the third round of the tournament has only just begun, Berdych was the ninth player to retire mid-match due to injury. The retirement of Marcel Granollers of Spain a few minutes later due to a bad back tied the tournament’s record of ten retirements on the men’s side. The specific causes for the pullouts at this year’s tournament have ranged from the expected (Marinko Matosevic’s ankle) to the unusual (Conor Niland’s food poisoning), but general trend has to be of concern to organizers and fans alike. No. 4 seed Andy Murray certainly seems to think so. “is the 18th pull out in the us open telling the tennis authorities anything?? No?? Thought not….” Murray said in a Twitter message.  Journalists from The New York Times and The International Herald Tribune (along with a few dedicated fans) are following the Grand Slam tournaments, on and off the court. They will provide updates, insights, links and analysis while setting the scene from the stands as well as the press room. 
			This blog’s regular features, including live tournament analysis, news and notes from Christopher Clarey, Ben Rothenberg and others, and other coverage, can now be found on the tennis section front.Read more… 
			Venus Williams, ranked No. 63, beat No. 2 Victoria Azarenka in Tokyo on Tuesday, her first win over a player in the top two since 2009.Read more… 
			The United States learned on Wednesday that it would host a first-round tie with Britain for the 2014 Davis Cup.Read more… 
			According to one celebrity marketing index, Andy Murray is the most appealing of the so-called Big Four in men’s tennis. Read more… 
			Sloane Stephens walked the runway Thursday night in the Just Dance With Boy Meets Girl fashion show, modeling the designs of Stacy Igel.Read more… Advertisement