Advertisement 
On Baseball  By                     
 TYLER KEPNER
 
JULY 10, 2014
 This is not about 2014 anymore. The Yankees will not and cannot say that, but it is the truth. Masahiro Tanaka was the only player keeping this season from sinking, and now he has a partial tear in his ulnar collateral ligament. “There are success stories,” General Manager Brian Cashman insisted in his conference call with reporters on Thursday, but success, in this case, would still probably mean failure for the Yankees. Even if the platelet-rich plasma injections work on Tanaka’s right elbow, and he returns this season, that means at least six weeks without their ace in the heat of a pennant race. Yes, the American League East is relatively weak, and the Yankees could always make more trades. But they have now lost four starting pitchers, and their lineup is too old and brittle to muscle past opponents. The Baltimore Orioles, who have impact players in their prime, were the best team in the division at the start of the season, and they still are. The really important question is whether Tanaka can pitch in 2016. If the Yankees try this plan and still miss the playoffs, and Tanaka breaks down again next season ... well, it is easy to figure out. Recovery from Tommy John surgery takes at least a year. Advertisement Every player is different, Cashman said the doctors told him, and they are right, of course. But ask the Los Angeles Dodgers how this plan worked with Chad Billingsley. In September 2012, the Dodgers announced that Billingsley — then a 27-year-old former All-Star with six seasons of at least 10 wins — had a partial U.C.L. tear. Instead of having surgery, he underwent plasma injections and was back on the mound the next April. He started twice, needed Tommy John surgery anyway and has not pitched since. Last month he tore the flexor tendon in his pitching arm. That is the nightmare scenario. The Yankees are far from a hard-luck franchise, but they are now becoming used to such harrowing visions.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Players seem indestructible from a distance, come to the Bronx, often experience success for a while and then corrode — with lots and lots of money still owed them. It has happened with the Yankees’ three highest-paid players — Alex Rodriguez, C. C. Sabathia and Mark Teixeira — and now Tanaka’s immediate future is in danger. There were warning signs about Tanaka, the way there were for the Mets when they traded for Johan Santana in 2007 and signed him for $137.5 million. Both pitchers were durable and dominant for their former teams, the very definition of an ace. They started their New York careers exhibiting those same traits. But Santana’s durability quickly caught up to him, and shoulder trouble ruined his career. Tanaka, at least, has a more correctable issue. The Yankees knew about Tanaka’s huge workload in Japan, but they still invested $175 million in him. Theirs was the highest offer, Cashman has said, but to be fair, other teams also made lavish bids for Tanaka, a polished star who is only 25. Advertisement The Yankees could not have known how much they would really need him. Sabathia, Ivan Nova (Tommy John surgery) and Michael Pineda were all gone by May 10, and the offense has gotten little from the newcomers Carlos Beltran and Brian McCann. The Yankees are 13-5 when Tanaka pitches and 33-40 when he does not. That record equates to a winning percentage in the neighborhood of the White Sox, the Twins and — how about this? — the Mets, who have played this season without their ace, Matt Harvey, who had Tommy John surgery last October. So without Tanaka, the Yankees are essentially the same team as the Mets without Harvey. At more than double the payroll. A version of this article appears in print on July 11, 2014, on Page B9 of the New York edition with the headline: Yanks’ Future Hinges on a Troubled Elbow.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »