HARRISON, N.J. — The Red Bulls, considered at the start of the season by many to be among the elite teams in Major League Soccer, are on the verge of being eliminated from the league’s postseason playoffs. A win Thursday against Philadelphia at Red Bull Arena would send the Red Bulls to the postseason as the 10th and final qualifier. With a league record 16 draws this season, a long dry spell during the summer and a season interrupted by a raft of players leaving for national team duty there are enough excuses to go around. Some of them were on display Tuesday as the club trained at its stadium. “In a normal league we would not be alive with 16 draws,” Erik Soler, the team’s sporting director and general manager, said. “We would be out. This set up allows us to still be alive. And if we get to the postseason, we could be dangerous. In 2008, the Red Bulls were the last team to qualify and went to the final. R.S.L. did the same thing in 2009, and won the final. Anything can happen.”  With the club in a precarious position, Soler was asked if Coach Hans Backe’s job was in jeopardy, whether or not the club qualifies for the postseason. “Hans is the head coach next season, regardless,” Soler said. “I met with our owner three weeks ago to discuss the next two seasons. Red Bull is showing a lot of faith, of course they want to win all the time.” The club is owned by the Austrian Dietrich Mateschitz. The company also owns the club in Salzburg, where it has its corporate headquarters; a club in the lower divisions in Germany; and academies in Ghana and Brazil. It also sponsors a Formula One race car team, a Nascar team, and assorted action sports. Many of the team’s struggles this season, Soler asserted, were because of its roster of players who shuttled in and out on national team duty during the Concacaf Gold Cup, assorted friendly matches, and World Cup and African Nations Cup qualifying games. That list includes Tim Ream and Juan Agudelo (U.S.), Rafael Marquez (Mexico), Dane Richards (Jamaica), Roy Miller (Costa Rica) and Bouna Coundoul (Senegal). “It took away the backbone of our team, and it’s hard,” Soler said. “Too many players and too many games played away. Next year, there’s no Gold Cup and I’ve been told that M.L.S. will not play on FIFA dates.” For the record, there are only three FIFA dates between the start of 2012 and the European Championship on June 8. Later next summer, World Cup qualifying matches will begin in the Concacaf region.  “All our players qualified for their national teams based on what they did here,” Soler said. “Tim Ream had never played on the national team until he played for the Red Bulls. The same for Agudelo.” Perhaps the most controversial and most dissected move Soler made this season was trading Danleigh Borman, Tony Tchani and a draft pick to Toronto for Dwayne De Rosario. De Rosario, who never seemed to fit in, was then dispatched to D.C. United (along with the promising left-side midfielder Austin da Luz) for Dax McCarty. Today, De Rosario is tied with San Jose’s Chris Wondolowski for the league lead with 15 goals. “He didn’t work out, he didn’t score,” Soler said. “He’s a great player as long as he has the ball, and we already have those kinds of players here. Our problem is not scoring goals, our problem is defensive mistakes. He’s not a guy who likes to play a complementary role. He didn’t fit in. I’m happy for him. He’s a great guy, but he wouldn’t score 15 goals here. We know that Thierry Henry needs the ball, and on a smaller scale DeRo is the same. It’s not our mistake. It just didn’t work out.” If the Red Bulls fail to make the playoffs, should Backe stay? Should Soler? Does the idea of another possible roster churn set your blood to boil? Goal, The New York Times soccer blog, will report on news and features from the world of soccer and around the Web.  Times editors and reporters will follow international tournaments and provide analysis of games. There will be interviews with players, coaches and notable soccer fans, as well as a weekly blog column by Red Bulls forward Jozy Altidore.  Readers can discuss Major League Soccer, foreign leagues and other issues with fellow soccer fans.
	 
			The Goal blog’s regular features, including live match analysis, player ratings from key matches, reader discussion, news and notes and more, can now be found on the soccer section front.Read more… 
			Crystal Palace won promotion to England’s Premier League on Monday. Now the club must retool under Manager Ian Holloway if it is to avoid relegation next season.Read more… 
			When congress opens, FIFA will be dealing with issues from President Sepp Blatter’s possible run for another term to accusations of vote-rigging among executive committee members.Read more… 
			Sacha Kljestan, who just won his second straight Belgian title with Anderlecht, could have a role to play for the United States in its exhibition against Belgium on Wednesday.Read more… 
			Alonso Hernandez, who plays in Mexico for Monterrey but has never represented the United States at any level, will get a chance to earn a place on the Under-20 World Cup team.Read more… Follow Advertisement