Advertisement By CLIFTON BROWN and  The pressure of defending their championship has weighed heavily on the Chicago Bulls during the playoffs. And no one has felt the burden more than Scottie Pippen. Pippen had a scoreless second half in Monday's 99-85 victory by the Cleveland Cavaliers, who evened the four-of-seven-game Eastern Conference championship series at two games to two. And throughout the playoffs, Pippen's game has fluctuated like a high-risk stock. He is an All-Star, a member of the 1992 Olympic men's basketball team, and one of the National Basketball Association's most versatile players. But lately, the 6-foot-8-inch small forward has been a target of criticism whenever the Bulls lose. How does Pippen feel about this?  Today, he wouldn't say. Pippen sat out a team practice while getting treatment for his sprained right ankle, then refused to answer questions from the news media when the practice ended. He did sit down briefly to read a local sports page, and it is unlikely he enjoyed what he read. The Bulls can only hope that printed criticism helps motivate him for Game 5 on Wednesday night in Chicago. 'Lets Offense Bother Him' Advertisement "I think he's got to respond more positively," said Bulls assistant coach Tex Winter, when asked about Pippen after the practice. "He's got to play through the officiating. I think he lets offense bother him to the point that it affects the rest of his ball game. If you're not scoring, or if you're not getting the shots, so what. Go out and play. Play defense. Play the boards. Make things happen for you. Bounce back. I think he will bounce back. He knows what it takes." Advertisement It will take more than the 13-point performance the Bulls got from Pippen in Game 4 for Chicago to beat Cleveland. The Cavaliers have shown the depth, the intelligence and the poise that enabled them to win 57 games during the regular season. With All-Star point guard Mark Price battling a stomach virus in Game 4, teammates Larry Nance (22 points), Brad Daugherty (14 points, 14 rebounds), Craig Ehlo (21 points) and John Williams (18 points) filled the void. While the Cavaliers acted like a team coming together, the Bulls today sounded today like a team coming apart. After Game 4, Pippen said Coach Phil Jackson should be blamed for the forward's lack of offense because Jackson had ordered the Bulls to slow the tempo. 'Didn't Mention Anything' Asked about Pippen's comments today, Jackson said: "Scottie didn't mention anything of that sort to me. I don't think he's going to say that to us as a group or to the coaching staff. "Our offense isn't predicated on getting the ball to Joe Blow and letting him go one-on-one. We do create post-up situations for Michael Jordan because he's our best post-up player. We are not a team that says, 'Get the ball to him.' If guys are hot, they know how to get them the ball. And if a guy's struggling and things are going well offensively, sometimes he just doesn't get the shots. "Scottie got the ball run out of his hands. We could care less if he only had one shot in the second half yesterday if we would've won the ball game. But when you lose, everybody says, 'Why didn't you score; why didn't this happen?' Then it became an area that you focus on." After his performance in Game 4, Pippen remained under the microscope. His inconsistency during the playoffs has probably been caused by a number of things. Bothered by a sprained ankle and a sore wrist, he has not been 100 percent healthy. But what concerns the Bulls more is that he has not always responded in kind to aggressive defensive play. Bothered by Knicks' McDaniel  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In Chicago's seven-game series against the Knicks, Pippen was bothered by New York's physical defense, not to mention the verbal and physical punishment he received from Knicks small forward Xavier McDaniel. And in this series, the Cavaliers' tall, shot-blocking frontcourt players -- Daugherty, Nance, and Williams -- have done an excellent job clogging the lane. When Pippen wants to drive, there is often no lane available. And the Cavaliers have limited Chicago's open-court, fastbreak opportunities, where Pippen is at his best. Advertisement Jordan scored 35 points in Game 4, but he also took 33 shots from the field. The Bulls don't want Jordan to dominate the offense to that degree, but he may have to if Pippen or some of his teammates do not respond. Asked if he would have to try to take control of the series, Jordan said: "I hope that's not the case. I'd like to see what we had last year and all season long, where everybody made a contribution. If everybody's going to sit back and wait for me to do all the work, I don't know if I can carry that type of load." Responding to a question about Pippen's disappearance in Game 4, Jordan said: "We're not going to start pointing fingers. Scottie not being involved offensively yesterday, I think, is something you've got to ask Scottie. We can't comment on that." But Jordan did say after Game 4 that the Bulls' bench had been outplayed. Jackson also said he was disappointed in the bench, which contributed just 15 points, including 8 from Cliff Levingston. None of the Bulls were willing to shoulder the blame, though. "I totally disagree with that," said backup point guard B. J. Armstrong, when told of Jackson's and Jordan's comments about the bench. "If Phil and Michael want to point to the bench, then I think that's something that needs to be talked about in house, rather than going to the media. We're all men. We're adults. If they have a knock against the bench, they should come and talk to the guys on the bench and work it out, rather than trying to point fingers." Can Pippen, the bench and the Bulls pull together in time to win this series? The answer will come this week. "I still think we want to win," Jordan said. "Now our play has to reflect that." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 1992, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: BASKETBALL; Will Prime-Time Pippen Please Stand Up?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »