Advertisement By JOE LAPOINTE and  His spectacular stickhandling effort to score the tying goal in Game 1 left everyone talking about Pittsburgh's Jaromir Jagr today as the Penguins prepared to be hosts to the Chicago Blackhawks in Game 2 of the Stanley Cup finals at the Civic Arena on Thursday. Jagr scored by weaving through several Chicago players before beating Ed Belfour with a backhand shot with 4 minutes 55 seconds left Tuesday night. The Penguins won, 5-4, when Mario Lemieux scored on the power play with 13 seconds left. The victory extended Pittsburgh's winning streak in the playoffs to eight game. Chicago had won 11 games games in a row. Jagr's goal atoned for several flaws in his play in the first game of the four-of-seven-game championship round. Jagr was on the ice for three Chicago goals. On one of them, by Michel Goulet, he accidentally passed the puck to the wrong team after a strong check into the boards by Steve Smith. Jagr, a second-year player from Czechoslovakia, said he was somewhat surprised and distracted by the way the Blackhawks treated him. They hit him with their bodies and their sticks, and they bad-mouthed him. Advertisement "Well, I guess I will have to deal with this in the future," Jagr said. Some of the nastiness came even before the game began, when Chicago's Mike Peluso, who didn't play, taunted Jagr during the warm-ups. Jagr, whose understanding of English is limited, said Peluso was cursing him. When Jagr spoke back and the two came close to each other, Rick Tocchet of the Penguins intervened. Harder to Hide in Chicago Advertisement "We made eye contact, and a little bit more," said Peluso, a fighting specialist. "It looked to me like he was hiding behind Tocchet. He's got to come to the Chicago Stadium, too, and it's a little harder to hide there."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Chicago's efforts to rattle Jagr may be part of a strategy by a team that doesn't yet respect him. "He has to earn his respect," said Darryl Sutter, the assistant coach. "He's not in a class with Mario." Sutter said that his team respected a player like Rick Tocchet but that Jagr "has to find his own little piece of ground and he has to earn it." Distracted by Matteau Jagr may have to skate with his head up. During the second period of Game 1, Jagr's progress was distracted by Stephane Matteau. With Jagr's attention diverted, Jagr was lined up from the blind side for a hard hit by Matteau's teammate, Dirk Graham. But Jagr managed to duck and avoid the collision. Most of Jagr's conversation today, however, concerned his ability with the puck. "I can beat anybody," he said, "and anybody can beat me. I am still learning. I am 20 years old." Told that Lemieux called him the best one-on-one player he had ever seen, Jagr smiled and said, "It's nice to hear the best player in the world say that." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 28, 1992, on Page B00014 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; Jagr Will Keep Head Up Against Physical Hawks.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »