Advertisement By ROBERT MCG. THOMAS JR. A day after the agreement with Jack Trudeau made Browning Nagle one quarterback too many, the Jets shed Nagle and his $825,000 salary yesterday. The release of Nagle, which had been expected after the Jets came to terms with Trudeau on Thursday as the backup to Boomer Esiason, came as the Giants attempted to get their payroll in order by waiving Mark Jackson, the highly paid wide receiver they signed a year ago, plus kicker David Treadwell and offensive lineman Clarence Jones. The Giants' decision to waive Jackson had also been forecast by a series of off-season moves, including the trade that brought them Arthur Marshall from Denver and the use of their first-round pick to draft Indiana wide receiver Thomas Lewis. Jackson, a former Bronco who had a career-high 58 receptions last season, didn't help his future when he dropped a series of late-season passes. Advertisement But it was his $1.35 million salary that weighed most heavily against him. Treadwell Also Released Treadwell, who also had a good season last year handling most field goals, was judged a luxury because the Giants, who had also carried a second kicker, Brad Daluiso, who kicked off and handled long field goal attempts, decided they could afford only one kicker this season. Daluiso was their choice, partly because moving the kickoff back from the 35- to the 30-yard line places a premium on leg strength and partly because Coach Dan Reeves felt he deserved a chance to compete as a regular field goal kicker. Advertisement Although Nagle, a former Louisville quarterback known for his strong arm, signed a contract with the Jets just a week ago, he had been getting strong hints that his future with the club was in jeopardy. The Jets, who saw their onetime quarterback of the future as a still developing commodity, had spent much of the off season auditioning and courting a series of quarterbacks with extensive National Football League experience as starters, among them Steve DeBerg, David Krieg and Steve Bono. Nagle's agent, Leigh Steinberg, said he had been repeatedly assured that the Jets wanted to keep Nagle. It was not until the Jets shifted their attention from the 35-year-old DeBerg and the 40-year-old Krieg to the 32-year-old Bono, that they had an inkling the team might be going for a quarterback both experienced enough and young enough, not to mention expensive enough, to displace Nagle. The agent's analysis should cheer Jet fans. He believes the Jets began looking for an experienced backup closer to his prime because they became convinced they will be fielding a playoff contender this season. Trudeau, who was released by Indianapolis last month after eight seasons with the Colts, had an ideal resume: 31 years old, 47 N.F.L. starts, a 52.9 percent completion rate and no realistic chance of wresting the starting job from Esiason. Nagle, who was drafted in 1991, displaced Ken O'Brien as the starter in 1992, but may have been asked to do too much too soon. Nobody particularly blamed him for the team's 4-12 record that season, but it was clear when the Jets got Esiason that Nagle's future was receding. It receded further last month when the Jets, who also have Jeff Blake on the roster, drafted quarterback Glenn Foley of Boston College on April 24. Salary Cap Presents Problems  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Even so, the Jets would have preferred to keep Nagle in the quarterback mix, but the new salary cap made that a luxury they could not afford. As the team's general manager, Dick Steinberg, put it yesterday, "We would have liked to have kept him and Jack Trudeau, but in today's environment, it's impossible to do." Advertisement Nagle was said to be traveling yesterday and unavailable for comment, and Trudeau, who agreed on a two-year contract worth $1.725 million, spent the day playing in a celebrity golf tournament. But before he left his home in Carmel, Ind., Trudeau had a brief telephone conversation with the Jets spokesman, Frank Ramos. "He said he was very excited about coming here," Ramos said, "and that the Jets had shown the most interest in him." Trudeau, who had also drawn interest from the Los Angeles Rams and the Cleveland Browns, may have been swayed by the fact that the Jets' quarterback coach, Walt Harris, was his college quarterback coach at Illinois. The release of Nagle and Jackson sent phone bills soaring as their agents scrambled to find new jobs for their clients. "I've been burning up the phone lines," Leigh Steinberg said last night, expressing confidence that Nagle would find a position, perhaps with the Rams or the Browns. In Denver, one of Jackson's agents, Peter Schaffer, expressed similar confidence about his client's future, but could not discuss it in detail. "We've got a lot of teams on the line right now," he said. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 7, 1994, on Page 1001034 of the National edition with the headline: FOOTBALL; Nagle Cut By the Jets; Giants Let Jackson Go.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »