Advertisement By IAN AUSTENJULY 13, 2014
 NANCY, France —  Television production of the Tour de France is a technological and logistical marvel involving fleets of motorcycles, helicopters and airplanes. But it lacks one element that has long been a part of motorsports broadcasting: onboard live cameras. The 2014 edition of the Tour is not quite there. This year, though, for the first time, special exemptions by cycling’s governing body allow teams to fit tiny video cameras on the front or back of some riders’ bikes. On-bike video recordings have long been a staple at amateur bike races, though the results are often little more than vanity projects. And even some cycling commuters strap cameras onto their bikes or helmets to capture dubious maneuvers and behaviors of passing drivers. But it took until May for the International Cycling Union to give the Tour of California a rule exemption making it the first major professional race to experiment with cameras that take viewers inside the pack. The results, particularly a sequence documenting a sprint for a stage finish by John Degenkolb of the Giant-Shimano team, rapidly became online sensations in the cycling world. Now, at least nine teams at this year’s Tour are experimenting with their bikes as camera platforms. For the moment, however, the videos are being recorded for online posting or postrace broadcasts. While it is still early in the experiment, it appears many professional riders, who generally are particular about adding anything to their bikes, are enthusiastic about doubling up as camera operators. Advertisement “I’d thought about just putting a camera on my bike, but it wasn’t allowed at the time,” said Koen de Kort, a rider with Giant-Shimano, who is sometimes using a camera at the Tour and who had them on his bike in California and at the Tour of Switzerland. “But now, finally, it is allowed. It’s great. Advertisement “Everybody can see what we see.” Unlike conventional television images, the onboard cameras’ views effectively capture the chaos and sense of “controlled danger” that dominate de Kort’s workdays, he said. “From the helicopter, it looks hectic, but it’s nothing compared with what we actually go through and what we see from the bike camera,” he said before the start of Friday’s stage. Although small, waterproof cameras from the American company GoPro first made point-of-view sports video accessible and popular, it has largely been shut out of professional cycling. Shimano, the Japanese company that dominates the bicycle parts industry, supplied the cameras used in California, edited the video and posted the results on its website. At the Tour, it has supplied cameras to eight teams, including two that do not use its bicycle parts. Team Garmin-Sharp is using a camera made by its lead sponsor. As is the case with many sports, modifying the rules governing equipment in cycling can be as fraught as amending a nation’s constitution. Dustin Brady, the marketing manager for Shimano in North America, who is spearheading the camera program, said he has left it up to teams and race organizers to deal with the cycling union. He added that Shimano had also made it clear that it would not hold the rights on the images from its cameras it posts and provides to broadcasters, avoiding another potential quagmire. The immediate popularity of the videos, he said, has meant that Shimano has not had to make sales pitches to teams for the cameras, which the company announced earlier this year. “We have not been persuading anybody to do this,” Brady said. “After the Tour of California, I was overwhelmed with requests.” Advertisement The cameras are tucked either under the handlebars or, for a reverse view, under the rider’s saddle. They can record for only about two hours, about half the time of a typical Tour stage, leaving it up to the riders to switch them on. De Kort said that he tries to do that when there are about 30 miles remaining in a race, but sometimes he doesn’t get around to it until much later. “Just as long as I got the last bit, that’s the most interesting,” de Kort said. One issue with the cameras is their three-ounce weight. While that seems slight, costly materials like carbon fiber and titanium are used in bike parts for much smaller weight advantages. Iwan Spekenbrink, the manager of Giant-Shimano, said the cameras may not be attached during the mountain stages, where every gram counts. If a rule change eventually allows cameras as standard equipment, the cycling union’s minimum weight rule for professional bikes will give teams leeway for lightening other parts to at least partly offset the weight gain. The weight issue aside, Spekenbrink is enthusiastic about the cameras, which, he noted, also capture the riders’ shouted warnings and instructions to one another. “What you see is the cooperation, you see the risk, the maneuvering on the bike, you see communication,” Spekenbrink said, adding that these elements elude the television motorbike cameras, which are outside the peloton.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Spekenbrink said he believed that live in-race cameras have expanded the fan base of Formula 1 auto racing and could do the same for cycling. At the Tour, the Amaury Sport Organization, the race organizer, puts cameras on the bikes of two riders on two teams daily. At the finish it collects their memory cards, edits the video and posts the result on its website while providing copies to broadcasters and the teams for their use. Julien Goupil, the media director for the Tour, said that the organization experimented with live transmissions from a bike using a dedicated motorcycle to capture the signal at a small race in the Netherlands last year. On the whole, Goupil said, the result wasn’t as good as the edited product. Advertisement “If nothing is happening, the picture is nothing,” he said. “We need to make something sexy.” There are also technical issues with going live. A wireless signal strong enough to be picked up from a Tour rider for a sustained period, Brady said, would further increase the camera’s weight and likely require a larger, heavier battery to operate for substantial time. If teams tried to do that now, he added, they would be “taking away from what the bike is supposed to do, which is race.” A version of this article appears in print on July 14, 2014, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: The View From the Handlebars Makes Its Debut.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »