Advertisement 
Sports of The Times  By                     
 JULIET MACUR
 
JULY 12, 2014
 When Argentina midfielder Javier Mascherano cracked heads with a Dutch player during a World Cup semifinal last week, millions of soccer fans saw it. From all over the world, they posted comments about it on Twitter and Facebook — the Spanish words for concussion are conmoción cerebral, by the way — and some fans probably held their breath as they watched Mascherano’s reaction to the collision. He staggered for a few steps, as if he had downed one too many cocktails, and collapsed with a zombie’s blank stare. Spectators didn’t need a medical degree to realize that he had hurt his head, and probably his brain, and that someone with a medical degree should properly evaluate him. But then came yet another example of the dysfunction of FIFA, the sport’s world governing body, and how it is apparently indifferent to player safety, given what it has shown at this World Cup: Mascherano spent about two minutes on the sideline before returning for the rest of the match. That’s about four or five minutes before he should have returned, if he had received a proper neurological evaluation to determine the extent of his injury. Advertisement This came about three weeks after Álvaro Pereira of Uruguay was knocked cold by a knee to the head during a first-round World Cup match against England, with millions of those same fans watching as he lay on his back, unresponsive. The Keystone Kops treated his injury; trainers tried to slap him awake. Advertisement After waking, he resisted leaving the field and eventually stepped off for less than two minutes before returning to play the final 30 minutes of the game. Later, he said that “the lights went out” after he was hit in the head. Mascherano’s injury came about a week after the Brazilian star Neymar took a knee to the back in a quarterfinal match and fell to the ground, writhing in pain and saying he couldn’t feel his legs. Medical workers went to him without a backboard and instead rolled him onto a stretcher. Then they jogged off the field with him jostling around and crying out with every step. One person even slapped his right leg several times. Once again, no medical degree was needed to see that it wasn’t the best treatment of someone who might have just sustained a serious spinal injury. Neymar, as it turned out, had a fractured vertebra. It’s a wonder what medical protocols FIFA enforces — if it enforces any at all — when the world is not watching. But it’s a good bet that the federation would have snapped to attention if any of those players had faked an injury. FIFA and fans have been shouting full-throated demands for rule changes to combat diving. Pretending to be injured to draw a foul is apparently a scourge that must be banished in the game at all costs. FIFA’s president, Sepp Blatter, has even suggested using video replay to punish it retroactively. But injuries — including serious ones, like head injuries — haven’t seemed to bring about anything similar in terms of outrage. Players, who make the game so beautiful for its fans, deserve better. FIFPro, the world players union, knows that. It called for an immediate investigation by FIFA into how the Pereira head injury was treated, calling the problem of head injuries in the game “a ticking time bomb.” Whether FIFA plans to change how it deals with game-time concussions is unclear, but what is obvious is that it didn’t do anything quickly enough to protect players like Mascherano. His teammate Pablo Zabaleta also appeared to sustain a head injury in the game after smacking an opposing player, but he continued to play. Advertisement This must stop. If FIFA and the game’s fans value the players as human beings, they should complain just as loudly when a player with a head injury pops right back into a game as they do when a player nearly wins an Oscar by diving to draw a foul.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Right now, though, FIFA is showing its cowardice by saying the onus is on the team doctor to determine if a player is healthy enough to return to the match. It’s as if FIFA hasn’t been following the issue of head injuries in sports at all. Even the N.F.L., which for years ignored the seriousness of concussions, has learned that a doctor with no link to either team in a game needs to evaluate a player’s fitness after a head injury. Only that doctor can decide if a player heads back to the field. The N.F.L. has also learned the hard way — most recently through thousands of players suing the league for concealing what it knew about the dangers of repeated hits to the head — that players with concussions shouldn’t play until they have fully recovered from their injuries. But FIFA has that in its own guidelines, which it must have left back at headquarters in Switzerland. For the players, there are huge risks of playing after a head injury, including second-impact syndrome, which can occur when a player with a concussion sustains another before the first one has healed. The result could be fatal, although that’s rare. Is it going to take something that severe for FIFA to start taking care of the players who have made its sport so rich? Players who return to the game too early or have repeated concussions could also be setting themselves up for a lifetime of headaches, sensitivity to light and sound, and chronic fatigue. Taylor Twellman, a former player in Major League Soccer, has been struggling with those symptoms after a series of concussions ended his career. That’s why, after seeing how Pereira and Mascherano resumed playing after obvious head injuries, Twellman excoriated FIFA for acting as if it were living in the 1950s when it came to its medical care. He called it barbaric and pathetic, but it’s more than that. Given how much the sports world knows about concussions and how they can ruin lives, FIFA has been irresponsible and callous in how it has treated its players at its biggest event. Its own guidelines say: “Do not take a head injury lightly. No match is that important.” Why write that when you don’t really mean it? Email: juliet@nytimes.com A version of this article appears in print on July 13, 2014, on Page SP9 of the New York edition with the headline: Shouting About Diving, but Shrugging About Concussions.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »