Advertisement By JAIME DIAZ and  Coming frighteningly close to satisfying his own quest for perfection, Nick Faldo made a break from the field today with a record-breaking performance in the second round of the British Open. Employing near-flawless ball-striking, zoned-in putting and an uncharacteristically joyful attitude, Faldo shot a seven-under-par 64. His two-day total of 12-under-par 130 broke by two strokes the championship's 36-hole record, which was established by Henry Cotton in 1934 and matched by Greg Norman and Faldo in 1990. The jarringly low number gave Faldo, whose 35th birthday is Saturday, a three-stroke advantage over John Cook of the United States and Gordon Brand Jr. of Scotland. Next was one of the first-round leaders, Steve Pate, at 134. Raymond Floyd, Donnie Hammond and Ernie Els of South Africa were five shots back. "That was my best round ever in the Open championship," said Faldo, the champion in 1987 and 1990, who has played every year since 1976. "I felt so comfortable, I just kept firing away. I had all the right thoughts. It didn't matter what club I had in my hand; I kept hitting good shots." Advertisement Although Faldo was clearly on a different level, the scoring remained generally low on a Muirfield course that had only slightly heavier wind than Thursday's benign opening round. The 36-hole cut of 143 tied the championship record for the lowest ever, matching the mark at St. Andrews in 1990. Advertisement The casualties included Fred Couples, whom Faldo would overtake as the world's No. 1 player on the Sony Ranking with a victory; Davis Love 3d; five-time champion Tom Watson; three-time champion Seve Ballesteros, and Jack Nicklaus, who failed to make the cut for only his second time in 31 British Opens. Faldo's round was reminiscent of his two previous victories in the world's oldest championship. He exhibited the same mastery of Muirfield in this 121st Open that he achieved here in horrible weather in 1987, as well as the palpable command of himself and his swing that is the enduring image of his five-shot victory at St. Andrews. Seven Threes in Eight Holes "I'm swinging as well as I've ever swung," said Faldo, who has become less immersed in technical aspects in the last year. "I have far fewer swing thoughts when I play. The old mechanical man is gone. I'm going au naturel." After playing the first eight holes in one-under par today, Faldo exploded with seven threes in the next eight holes. The streak was ignited by an eagle at the 504-yard, par-5 ninth, where he hit a 3-wood shot from 245 yards to four feet and made the putt. "That ball just came off like a rocket," said Faldo. It elevated the Englishman to an extended moment of pure golf that even champions only achieve a few times in their careers. Converting birdies with perfectly paced putting on Muirfield's consistently smooth greens, Faldo holed a four-footer on the 475-yard 10th, a 15-footer on the 381-yard 12th, a 20-footer on the 449-yard 14th and a 15-footer for his final birdie of the day on the 417-yard 15th.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Faldo missed an opportunity to tie the championship's one-round record of 63 when he failed to birdie the relatively easy 550-yard 17th. After a good drive, he pulled a 5-iron into deep rough to the left of the green. On the final hole, Faldo left a 20-foot birdie attempt an inch from the cup. As the round progressed, Faldo became unusually animated for a player who usually projects dour intensity. "All of a sudden there, I just felt so good inside," said Faldo, who has tried to be more forgiving of himself and spontaneous on the golf course. "Considering the cirumstances and where we are and what we are doing, this is a unique feeling." Advertisement Faldo was loose enough after the round to joke about a putting tip that coach David Leadbetter -- "Lord Leadbetter" he called him -- had given him before the championship. Asked to talk specifically about the change, Faldo protested that it was "top secret." "The code name is 'Basil' at the moment," he said dryly. At this point, Faldo's competitors surely wouldn't mind if he were debriefed. Except for Faldo and Floyd, none of the lowest 10 scorers has ever won a major championship, and only Faldo has ever won the British Open. Indeed, of the 26 players within eight shots of Faldo, the only other former champion is 1985 winner Sandy Lyle, who is at four-under-par 138. Those facts would point to the 49-year-old Floyd, who followed his opening 64 with a 71, as Faldo's most dangerous challenger. Floyd is trying to complete a career Grand Slam by winning this championship. His experience and the recent level of his play are in his favor, but the rain and heavy winds that have been forecast for Saturday would seem to work against an older player. "This is the one championship that I would dearly love to win," said Floyd, who lost to Faldo in a sudden-death playoff at the 1990 Masters. Faldo's greatest threat could be his recent tendency to give away leads. At the Irish Open last month, where he achieved his first tournament victory in 12 months, he led by eight shots with 23 holes to play but shot a final-round 75 to fall into a playoff. Three weeks later in the French Open, he had the lead with five holes to go but dropped five shots to par to tie for third. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 18, 1992, on Page 1001031 of the National edition with the headline: GOLF; Faldo Is 3 Feet Off Ground And a Record 12 Under Par.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »