Advertisement  Pirates 2, Cardinals 1 PITTSBURGH, Aug. 2 (AP) -- The Pittsburgh Pirates rallied with two outs in the bottom of the ninth today on run-scoring singles by Jeff King and Don Slaught against St. Louis closer Lee Smith, beating the Cardinals by 2-1 today and completing a four-game sweep. The Pirates held St. Louis to four runs in the series for their first four-game sweep of the Cardinals in Pittsburgh since May 28-31, 1962. They hadn't swept any opponent in four home games since San Francisco on July 14-17, 1988. Smith (3-4), who has a 2-8 career record against Pittsburgh, inherited a 1-0 lead from Rheal Cormier, who pitched three-hit ball over seven innings, and Todd Worrell, who worked a scoreless eighth. Smith got the leadoff hitter, Jay Bell, in the ninth, but Andy Van Slyke singled and stole second. Pinch-hitter Orlando Merced flied out for the second out, but King singled to center to drive in Van Slyke and took second on the throw home. Slaught followed with a single to right-center, and King scored just ahead of center fielder Ray Lankford's throw to the plate. Advertisement The Pirates had been only 3-40 when trailing after eight innings. Bob Walk (4-4) retired all three hitters he faced for the victory as St. Louis lost its eighth in nine games to fall eight and a half games behind the division-leading Pirates. St. Louis is 4-13 since the All-Star Game break. Expos 1, Phillies 0 Advertisement MONTREAL (AP) -- Chris Nabholz and John Wetteland combined on a four-hitter and Larry Walker knocked in the only run of the game with a double as Montreal gained a split of its four-game series with Philadelphia. Nabholz (7-7) struck out one and walked one. Wetteland pitched the ninth for his 23d save. The only run came Delino DeShields drew a walk off Ben Rivera (0-2) in the sixth. DeShields stole both second and third and scored on Walker's two-out double, which Phillies right fielder Wes Chamberlain misjudged. Chamberlain appeared to have the ball lined up at his knees but at the last moment had to dive, and the ball skidded off his glove. DeShields made up for a blunder he committed in the first when he tripled but failed to touch home after Marquis Grissom flied to center. DeShields was tagged out at the plate. Astros 5, Reds 4 CINCINNATI (AP) -- Ed Taubensee's two-run homer and a pair of r.b.i. by Steve Finley gave Houston the victory over Cincinnati and snapped the Astros' three-game losing streak. Taubensee's second homer of the year came off Jose Rijo (8-8) in the seventh and drove in Pete Incaviglia, who had reached base on a fielder's choice.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Reliever Joe Boever (3-4) got the final out of the sixth and the first of the seventh for the victory in relief of Pete Harnisch. Harnisch struck out six in five innings but stood to be the loser when he was lifted for a pinch-hitter. But the Astros tied the score at 1-1, getting to Rijo for the first time. Taubensee's homer in the seventh gave Houston a 3-1 lead. Braves 3, Giants 0 Braves 8, Giants 5 SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -- Greg Olson's two-run single capped a six-run, sixth-inning rally in the nightcap that gave Atlanta a doubleheader sweep of San Francisco. The sweep gave the Braves a one-game lead over the Cincinnati Reds in the National League West. The two clubs begin a three-game series Tuesday night in Atlanta. Right-hander Pete Smith and relievers Kent Mercker and Alejandro Pena combined on a five-hitter for the victory in the opener. It was the Braves' major league-leading 19th shutout of the season. Advertisement The Braves jumped to a 2-0 lead in the first inning of the nightcap on Otis Nixon's double and an r.b.i. single by Dave Justice. Giants Manager Roger Craig was ejected by third-base umpire Gary Darling during the inning for protesting a call on Ron Gant's run-scoring fielder's choice grounder. Dodgers 4, Padres 1 LOS ANGELES (AP) -- Orel Hershiser continued his career-long brilliance against San Diego, pitching a five-hitter for Los Angeles. Hershiser (8-9), who had won only one of his previous nine starts, retired the final 13 batters in order. He did not issue a walk and struck out three in lowering his career e.r.a. in 24 starts against the Padres to 1.95. It was his first complete game since Aug. 18, 1989, against the Mets. Mitch Webster, replacing injured Eric Davis in right field for the Dodgers, keyed a two-run second inning with the first of his two doubles. Davis was hit hard on the left wrist by a Jose Melendez pitch Saturday night and is listed as day-to-day. The Dodgers' Brett Butler beat out a two-strike bunt in the fifth inning to extend his hitting streak to 17 games. The streak is the longest of Butler's career and the second-longest in the majors this season, behind an 18-game streak by San Diego's Gary Sheffield. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 3, 1992, on Page C00011 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL: NATIONAL LEAGUE; Pirates Rough Up Smith And Sweep Away Cards.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »