Advertisement By JAIME DIAZ and  At the same time it was solidifying its position as golf's fifth most important tournament, this year's Players Championship did much to clarify the picture for the coming Masters. With the start of the first major championship of the year looming only 10 days away, several players showed by their play and their outlooks that they are in the prime of their preparation for the rigors of the Augusta National Golf Club. Foremost among them was Davis Love 3d, who demonstrated by his closing 67 on Sunday over the nerve-racking TPC Stadium course that he is now capable of winning anywhere. Always considered promising because of his length and classic swing, the 27-year-old Love offered proof that his composure and short game are now at the level necessary to win major championships. Love Takes Control In fact, Love took control of the tournament when he holed a difficult pitch shot from 30 yards for a birdie on the eighth and a 30-foot putt for a 3 on the 10th hole, a par 4. He then saved it with yet another great recovery after flying a 9-iron from 158 yards over the 14th, a par 4. Advertisement Love has only played at Augusta twice, missing the cut in 1987 and tying for 42d last year at one-over 289, 12 shots behind the winner Ian Woosnam. But Love was encouraged by the 19 birdies he made in 72 holes, many of them on the course's four relatively short par 5's, three of which he can usually reach with medium irons. Advertisement "If I can make 19 birdies, I can sure figure out a way to only make 10 bogeys," said Love. With his victory Sunday, Love has finished in the Top 10 six times this year, and his earnings of $585,465 rank second to Fred Couples on the PGA Tour's money list. Watson Is Confident Besides Love, a pair of double winners at Augusta, Tom Watson and Nick Faldo, also showed impressive form at the Players Championship by each posting their best finish ever in the event, a tie for second. The 41-year-old Watson, who won his first tournament in five years two weeks ago at the Hong Kong Open, said that after his closing 69 he is as confident going into Augusta as he was last year, when he was tied with the winner, Ian Woosnam, on the final hole before finishing tied for third. "My nerves were a little jumpier today," admitted Watson on Sunday, who has had difficulty shooting strong final rounds in recent years. "The putter could be better, but I am in a good frame of mind. I'm looking forward to the Masters."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Faldo, despite a final-day 74 in which he never seemed to have a short birdie putt, was uncharacteristically optimistic after losing a tournament he led after 54 holes. "It was a good day for finding out any fine-tuning I need in my swing under pressure," said the normally intense and perfection-minded Faldo. "I also want to go out and play relaxed golf, and I made an awful lot of progress this week." Strong Tournament Last year's runner-up at Augusta, Jose Maria Olazabal of Spain, also had a strong tournament. The 26-year-old Basque was tied for the lead after two rounds before finishing 75-71 to tie for ninth, seven shots back. His countryman, Seve Ballesteros, opened as Olazabal finished to miss the cut, but still has a third victory at Augusta very much in his sites. Both men have already won two tournaments this year on the European Tour. The same cannot be said of Woosnam, whose best finish this year was a tie for seventh at the Mediterranean Open. Woosnam has missed the cut the last two weeks in the United States and will be trying to find his form this week at New Orleans. Advertisement Of course, the Players Championship did nothing to diminish the shadow of domination Couples has cast over the American Tour. After a course-record 63 in the third round that looked as if it might propel him to his third victory in five weeks, Couples closed with a 74 to tie for 13th. After playing in seven straight tournaments, Couples is taking this week off with a plan of arriving refreshed at the Masters, where he has finished fifth twice in the last four years and where he is almost sure to be the favorite. "I can't really wait to get there," said Couples. Although he did not play at the Stadium Course, Raymond Floyd also seems primed for Augusta. The 49-year-old Floyd spent the week in Japan winning the Fuji Electric Grand Slam, a seniors event, by seven shots over Gary Player. Floyd won't be 50 until Sept. 4, but in Japan, a player's age is set on Jan. 1. Floyd, who won the Doral Ryder Open and finished third at the Honda Classic last month, won the Masters in 1976 and lost in a playoff to Faldo in 1990. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 31, 1992, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: GOLF; Love Is a Success on Masters Launching Pad.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »