Advertisement By HARVEY ARATON He made three huge plays down the stretch of his team's first playoff victory since 1984, and now Chris Dudley was about to receive a bandage of honor for each of them. When the door to the New Jersey Nets' locker room opened after their season-preserving 109-104 victory over the Cleveland Cavaliers on Tuesday night, trainer Fritz Massmann was found standing over a seated Dudley, strapping an ice pack to the reserve center's lower back. "Something that's been bothering me the last week," Dudley said. "It's been spasming up." Next, Massmann applied Ice Pack II to Dudley's left knee, which has been creaky since Antoine Carr of San Antonio rolled into it all the way back in late November. "Under here, Fritzy," said Dudley, reaching behind his left thigh, pinpointing the location for Ice Pack III. The hamstring, Dudley reported, had been tight all season long. Advertisement On the bottom of his right foot, Dudley was already sporting an unsightly bandage. "It's a hole in the skin, just general wear and tear," he said, uncovering the wound, which was uglier than the ravaged bandage. "I'm hurtin', yeah, but feeling no pain." Advertisement Sitting there, nearly mummified, Dudley was clearly the embodiment of a team that somehow managed a stiff march to the playoffs, despite its many bloody, mostly self-inflicted, wounds. Down two games to none and 10 points in the fourth quarter Tuesday night to a Cleveland team eager to leave New Jersey's imitative parquet floor behind for Boston's authentic floor, the baby squabblers of the Meadowlands rose in unison for a rousing victory. Perhaps it will be one that sets a precedent for such future demonstrations of maturity and poise. At the very least, the Nets forced the Cavaliers to return to East Rutherford tonight for Game 4, one the visitors will be loath to let slip away. "They're not going to want to play Game 5," said Dudley, a former Cavalier who knows that franchise has lost the fifth game of a first-round playoff series in its last three attempts to advance. There were no reports of Nets dissension Tuesday night, no mutinous acts on the bench. Even the proud but stubborn coach, Bill Fitch, softened in the interests of playoff expediency. In the fourth quarter, the game and season most assuredly slipping away, Fitch handed the ball to Kenny Anderson, the point guard he has made an example of by not using, even when the rookie might have helped him win.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Ego, greed, laziness, selfishness and all of the other unwelcome characteristics that too often define professional sports are less tolerated come playoff time, and that alone makes it a second season worthy of its hype. The playoffs are a reward for all for putting up with the rest of the season. They are about dedication and excellence, about winners, not whiners. A player had better grow up fast in the playoffs, or his act will quickly grow old. Derrick Coleman, for instance. While he may never respect Fitch's -- or any coach's -- ultimate authority, Coleman learned Tuesday that he doesn't have nearly the run of a playoff game that he apparently has of the Nets' administration. Advertisement Early in the second quarter, called for an offensive foul by Referee Mike Mathis, Coleman childishly slammed the ball to the floor and into the stands. He was not only hit with a deserved technical foul, but the next time Coleman got the ball, Mathis also blew the whistle and called him for traveling. Coleman's laugh and shake of the head as he trotted the other way suggested he knew he'd been had. In their comeback, fueled by Coleman, Dudley, Drazen Petrovic and Terry Mills, the Nets were all business. After 28 points, Morris sat out the last 7 minutes 18 seconds, without so much as a frown. Starting center Sam Bowie, in a fog most of the game, deferred to Dudley, whose three big plays were a steal of an inbounds pass with 6:17 left and the Nets down by 92-86; a tip-in reaching behind his body at 2:49 to give the Nets their first lead, and a block of a 3-point attempt by Mark Price at 1:53 with the Nets leading by 1. "We don't get paid extra for this," Dudley said. "It's just about competing. It felt good." So, too, for this franchise to have finally won a playoff game. There was loud, excited chatter all around the room and laughter from the office of Fitch, embattled and likely soon to be departed. Some of the owners known as the Secaucus Seven made the rounds. One of them, David Gerstein, planted a kiss on Petrovic's cheek. The mood was so festive that Massmann, who is retiring after the season, allowed a visitor into the trainer's room, his usually off-limits domain. "I told you you'd have more work Thursday," Petrovic, toweling off nearby, told Massmann. The old trainer smiled, the way he has for his 22 dedicated years on the Nets' bench. There would be more taping tonight, more ice packs to apply. "I'm ready to go, but I'm glad these young guys got a chance to taste this," Massmann said. "I always told them, 'Once you taste the playoffs, you can't get enough.' " We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 30, 1992, on Page B00018 of the National edition with the headline: ON PRO BASKETBALL; A Hot Dudley Gets The 'Cold Treatment'.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »