Advertisement By RICHARD SANDOMIR Triplecast. Triplecast. Triplecast. I'm so awash in Triplecast commercials I'm writing in Triplicate. I can't avoid the Olympics Triplecast's $40 million propaganda campaign to persuade Americans to pay pay pay $125 for 15 days of commercial-free Olympics action on three channels. The average cable subscriber will see eight or nine Triplecast commercials this week. I'm sure I've seen a hundred. "LIVE WITH NO INTERRUPTIONS. CHOOSE WHAT YOU WANT TO WATCH WHEN YOU WANT TO WATCH IT." At least by Sunday, when it signs on at 5 A.M. for its first 12-hour live stint, all the pre-Triplecast prognosticating will be done. Will NBC and Cablevision lose $100 or $100 million? Will two million people buy it, or 200,000? How did NBC and Cablevision, the partners, get mixed up in a venture mocked regularly by David Letterman (who, it is believed, discovered that the regular female intruder to his Connecticut estate was the first subscriber)? The drumbeat of negativism has apparently not bothered Jim Dolan, the rough-hewn executive in charge of the daily operations of the Triplecast. Advertisement "Bother me? Nah, not in the least," he said. "You can look for both sides of the story. If you want to look for negative, you look for negative. If you want to look for positive, you look for negative. Heh!" Advertisement Dolan has been the point man in delineating the differences between the Triplecast and NBC's 161 hours of free coverage. Most notably, he has told anyone listening that the Triplecast is worth buying because it has no commercials. He said he was misquoted in saying that NBC's commercial load will be worse in Barcelona than it was for the 1988 Olympics in Seoul, South Korea. What he really said was this: "If there will be the same this time as there were last time, that will be a lot." Inevitably, Dolan's remarks came out as NBC-bashing. Some NBC and Cablevision executives privately wonder why he has not been reined in. Dolan doesn't view himself as a basher but as the spokesman for true Triplecast values, which just happen to differ from NBC's. "To understand the Triplecast, you have to look at what's out there for free," he said. "I'm not trying to criticize them. Even though they won't have a lot of commercials on NBC, it's still a lot compared with the Triplecast, where there are none." He added: "One out of every four minutes each hour on NBC will be a commercial or a promo. There's nine and a half minutes of NBC commercials, station time and promotions. That adds up to 15 minutes." Thus is the conundrum inherent in NBC staging a traditional Olympics on broadcast TV and being a partner in the pay-per-view Olympics. Commercials for both appear on NBC stations and on cable, clashing in the viewer's brain.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. To push the Triplecast, NBC's network effort must be positioned negatively as commercial-laden. To promote NBC, the Triplecast must be ignored. A corporation waging war with itself. Advertisement One Triplecast spot hammers at NBC, asking a viewer if he likes "interviews with equestrian trainers" or "when action is interrupted with commercials." Phrased that way, NBC is framed. Next thing, NBC's promotions should ask: "Do you want 12 hours of continuous dressage or butterfly heats where you learn nothing about the athletes or get no commercial cues to get a brew from the fridge?" Triplecast success hinges on attracting at least 2.4 million buyers, some purchasing the $125 package for 15 days, others the $29.95 per day option. As of last week, Dolan reported there were as many as 60,000 buyers. Out of the universe of 40 million potential buyers, that's a 0.15 percent buy rate. Now, Dolan said, there are more than 60,000, but won't say how many more. A survey of large cable systems showed activity picking up, but not strangling operators. Time Warner's Manhattan, Queens and Brooklyn systems have about 1,000 buyers out of 600,000 subscribers. Out of 10 million potential buyers for Denver-based Tele-Communications Inc., about 15,000 have purchased. Only 329 have purchased at Dallas-based Sammons Communications out of 700,000. Dolan is betting that the buying pace will mirror the impulsive, last-minute buying characteristic of major heavyweight fights on pay-per-view. No one knows if he's right or wrong, or whether 60,000 bookings as of July 13 will equal the stated corporate goal of two million at Olympics' end. The Triplecast does not mirror megafights in one major way. Nobody needs the Triplecast to see the Olympics. The Triplecast doesn't have the Olympics exclusive, as pay-per-view does for a megafight. Plus, the live portion of the Triplecast, from 5 A.M. to 5 P.M. occurs when people are sleeping or working, and the 12 hours of replay coincide largely with NBC's prime-time coverage. "There's no guarantee it'll be the same buying curve," Dolan said. "When you lay it up against what's happened before, it looks good." Then he added: "But we're flying blind here, inasmuch as we can't say it'll turn out the way others have turned out." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 24, 1992, on Page B00012 of the National edition with the headline: BARCELONA: TV SPORTS; Triplecast Still Hopes To Attract Subscribers.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »