Advertisement By MURRAY CHASS Although no vote for the re-election of Fay Vincent as commissioner can be held for six months, some owners who are concerned about talk of a group's trying to induce Vincent to resign said yesterday that he would be re-elected if the vote were held today. Vincent has said repeatedly he would not resign, even if 25 owners asked him to, explaining that it would be a bad precedent. But he has not said if he would run for a second term. His current term, which began nearly three years ago, expires March 31, 1994. A vote for re-election would be held between 15 months and six months before the end of his term. He would need a majority of the 28 clubs, including at least five in each league. The way some Vincent supporters counted yesterday, they said he could get 15 to 17 votes, including more than enough in each league. That count is in stark contrast to recent reports from some anti-Vincent owners that they had as many as 22 owners who wanted the commissioner to resign. But that number has become suspect based on interviews with some of the owners purportedly among the 22. Colorado Casts Its Vote for . . . Advertisement According to the pro-commissioner count, American League clubs supporting Vincent are: Baltimore, Boston, Detroit, Kansas City, Oakland, Seattle, Texas and Toronto; National League clubs are: Atlanta, Colorado, Florida, Houston, Montreal, the Mets and San Francisco.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Cincinnati and San Diego were also considered possible supporters if a vote were held. Interviews with the owners of about half of those clubs have confirmed that they support Vincent. But the other half have not returned telephone calls seeking comment on the matter, which has become an issue in light of an effort by some owners to collect enough signatures on a letter designed to induce Vincent to resign. One pro-Vincent owner said yesterday that that attempt has ended in failure because the group, said to be led by Peter O'Malley of the Los Angeles Dodgers and Jerry Reinsdorf of the Chicago White Sox, couldn't get enough signatures to make an impact. O'Malley, Reinsdorf and other owners who have been identified by some owners as being involved in the resignation effort have refused to comment on the matter. Advertisement Clubs said to oppose Vincent beside the Dodgers and the White Sox are California, Cleveland, Milwaukee, Minnesota, the Yankees, the Chicago Cubs, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh and St. Louis. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 15, 1992, on Page B00010 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Vincent Gets Nod in Owners' Poll.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »