Advertisement By GEORGE VECSEY AT least the Vice President didn't get on New York for our baseball teams. That would have truly stung. He can taunt New York for all our other failures, our politics and our potholes, but leave the Mets and Yankees out of it. We'll take care of our own problems. As Jeff Torborg says, "We'll keep it in the family." Despite all the money spent last winter, the 1992 Yankees look depressingly like the 1991 Yankees and the 1992 Mets look alarmingly like the 1991 Mets. There is a feeling of betrayal rampant in our town, which is usual for New York because our expectations are so high. A lot of people stay in New York or migrate here because of the energy and the people and the exotic food and foreign films you can't find in the malls out there in McReynoldsland. The negative side is that when things go wrong in New York, it must be somebody's fault. Steinbrenner understood our fevered minds more than was healthy. He used to tell New Yorkers that they deserved pennants. Did he mean that Cleveland, the hometown he deserted, did not deserve pennants? Who is to blame for the Mets' five-game losing streak that ended with last night's 5-2 victory over the Expos? I cannot blame the front office for spending money because they went after the best talent. Advertisement I cannot place the blame for the Mets' troubles on Jeff Torborg's little gigs on WFAN. The aggravation may not be worth the money, but that's for him to decide. This is a tough town. The press is always among us, but in New York Torborg gets paid to be grilled by hometown announcers. Advertisement He had to explain on WFAN yesterday why he had been off base this week in saying John Franco, his star relief pitcher, had a tender elbow. Franco was testy about it because he had been available for an inning's work, which is normal for him. Torborg said he shouldn't have disclosed this minor tenderness because he broke his own house rule about keeping things within the family. This being New York, the manager then sat in the dugout and explained it all over again yesterday afternoon to a crowd of reporters so big that it could have investigated the entire Watergate incident in the first week in 1972. Because the jets were taking off from LaGuardia and the Shea Stadium sound system was booming Sinatra, however, I only caught bits and pieces of it: "I really believe . . . Vroom . . . My kind of town . . . The play at third, the play at first . . . Vroom . . . Love and marriage . . . Everybody is at fault . . . Vroom . . . He had a little stiffening in the elbow . . . Ask the local gentry . . . Vroom . . . I can see why he got mad . . . And they will say it's elementary . . . Sheer stupidity." My own reading is that Torborg got himself in a wee bit of trouble because he told the truth. He kept his sense of humor later when asked if Franco had set the pre-game firecrackers in the lumber rack. "I don't know who to blame or credit," Torborg said with a smile.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Torborg may never find a way to pull all these players together, but he works harder at it, with meetings and information and private talks with the players, than Dave Johnson did. Only thing is, Johnson won a World Series. Do not minimize it: That 1986 World Series hangs over the Mets like the framed photograph of an old flame they can't quite take down from the wall. The front office brought in some older professionals this year, but the Mets are still waiting for Keith Hernandez to charge a bunt and throw a runner out at third base. Advertisement I've got bad news for them: Hernandez attended the old-timers' game last weekend. It doesn't do the current players any good to hear this, but I think the Mets are still haunted by the ghosts of Mookie and Lenny and Raffy and Straw and Wally and Bobby O, the team the front office couldn't wait to disband. Speaking of franchises with glorious pasts, the Yankees are not really disappointments because only their last three or four diehard fans had any optimism. No matter how proud the tradition is, the Yankees will not be a viable organization until Steinbrenner sells the team. One of the nice things about baseball is that it is possible for fans to enjoy the other side, without the elbows and glares of hockey and basketball. We can watch Jose Lind make a leaping catch and tag out a runner in the same motion. We can watch Gary Carter throwing out Mets' runners four years after I personally pronounced the Kid's arm dead. The weather's good. It's baseball season. How bad can that be? We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 17, 1992, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; Holy Liddy!  Now It's Francogate.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »