Advertisement By JENNIFER FREY Dwight Gooden walked off the Shea Stadium field and could only think about one thing. Why does it have to be over? Why now? He faced the Pittsburgh Pirates yesterday, the East Division champions, and held them to four hits over nine innings to give the Mets a 2-1 victory. He struck out Barry Bonds. He walked only one batter. He needed but 88 pitches to earn his second complete-game victory in his last three starts. And he walked off the field feeling good. But it doesn't matter. For Gooden, the season ended yesterday. For the Mets, it will end this afternoon. It doesn't matter if, after losing 13 of 15 games to the Pirates earlier this season, the Mets have now taken two straight. It's over, and it has been for a long time. "You see stuff like that and you wish it wasn't ending," said Manager Jeff Torborg. A Lock for Fifth The victory clinched fifth place for the Mets, who entered yesterday's game two ahead of Philadelphia with two games to play. Advertisement "It's nice to win, and I don't care what the situation is over there," Torborg said, referring to the Pirates' clubhouse, where the team inside is focusing on the upcoming playoff series with Atlanta rather than this final weekend series in New York. Advertisement "I know they're rotating some people over there because of the playoffs. It's nice to see here that nobody has quit." For Gooden, this season has been one, long frustrating battle back from rotator cuff surgery, a year in which he struggled into August and finished 10-13, the first losing record of his career. But in recent starts, he has shown signs of the old Doc Gooden. Ten days ago, he beat St. Louis, 3-2, in his first complete game of the season. Yesterday made it two.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. And that is why, after he tossed his final pitch yesterday, he turned to pitching coach Mel Stottlemyre and said, "Why does it have to be over now?" "The last seven or eight starts I feel like I've found my rhythm," Gooden said. "When you do that, you want to keep on going." Gooden's pitch count, 88, was the lowest of his career for a complete game, mostly because he forced several batters to ground out on the first or second pitch. One of his victims was Pirate outfielder Andy Van Slyke, who went 1 for 4 and saw his shot at the National League batting title almost certainly come to an end. Van Slyke, who is now hitting .325, would have to go 6 for 6 today to pull ahead of San Diego's Gary Sheffield, who finished the season at .330. Meanwhile, Torborg complimented Gooden on his work ethic this year. "The kid is a competitor," he said. "To see what he's done this season has really been something special." The complete game put Gooden at an impressive 206 innings for the season, the second-highest total on the staff. He achieved that despite a three-week stint on the disabled list following the All-Star Game break. Gooden receives a $250,000 bonus for having topped the 200-inning mark this year. Having to part with that extra money didn't seem to bother Nelson Doubleday, the Mets' co-owner, who walked onto the field and shook Gooden's hand at the conclusion of the game. INSIDE PITCH BARRY BONDS checked out houses in Connecticut with BOBBY BONILLA after he arrived in New York this week and was impressed with Bonilla's Greenwich neighborhood. "It doesn't mean anything," said Bonds, who will be a free agent after this season and has talked to Bonilla before about the possibility of coming to New York and playing for the Yankees. "He lives up there. I thought it was really nice. It wasn't really house-hunting. If I get a house, my wife will be the one picking it out." When asked if Bonilla had warned him about the pressures of playing in New York, Bonds laughed and said, "Bobby was used to everybody liking him. He didn't get ripped before. I already got ripped in Pittsburgh. I know what it's like. I can handle New York. I can take anything anyone says about me." . . . How anxious are the Mets to be done with this season? MACKEY SASSER had packed up almost all the contents of his locker before yesterday afternoon's game, and he wasn't the only one with storage boxes. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 4, 1992, on Page 8008007 of the National edition with the headline: COLLEGE FOOTBALL; Just When the Doctor Sharpens Up, It's Over.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »