Advertisement Supported by Keeping Score By Benjamin Hoffman When LeBron James was making a decision on which team he wanted to play for, one of the dark horses, at least among the game’s more dedicated fans, was the Phoenix Suns.  Falling just short of the playoffs last season, the Suns were led by two high-scoring point guards, Goran Dragic and Eric Bledsoe. The unconventional offense, in which two ballhandlers shared responsibilities, along with a solid supporting cast including Gerald Green, Miles Plumlee and Markieff Morris, was enough to make people wonder if James could be tempted to play out west. With James no longer in the picture, and the Suns having money to spend, they did some shopping on Friday and in a surprising move acquired Isaiah Thomas in a sign-and-trade deal with the Sacramento Kings. On a team where point guard is the biggest strength, adding Thomas, a point guard, seems redundant. Technically, Bledsoe is a restricted free agent, so acquiring Thomas could be viewed as a sign that Phoenix is willing to let Bledsoe leave. But ownership has been emphatic that any offer for Bledsoe will be matched. If that happens, the Suns will have three star point guards, when many teams do not have one. The problem is that there is only one ball for them to share. Complicating matters further, Phoenix used its first-round draft pick on Tyler Ennis — a point guard from Syracuse. The expectation is that Thomas, whom Sacramento was willing to part with in exchange for a $7 million trade exception and the rights to Alex Oriakhi, will come off the bench. It is a surprising switch, given that Thomas averaged 20.3 points and 6.3 assists a game last season and for many teams would be an upgrade as a starter. It was also an expensive move for the thrifty Suns, who gave Thomas a four-year deal worth $27 million. If social media is any indication, Thomas, who at 5 foot 9 is among the smallest players in the league, was just happy the team was interested. His breakout season saw him set career highs in virtually every category, but the perpetually rebuilding Kings made no attempt to retain him. That led his girlfriend, Kayla Wallace, to post photographs from their recruiting trip to Phoenix on Instagram with captions that said, “Feels weird to be so wanted.” Suns Coach Jeff Hornacek showed creativity with a two-guard system last season, and Thomas could add a new dimension to that. Trying to get attention in a division that includes the Los Angeles Clippers and the Golden State Warriors could be tough, but the Suns’ offensive attack could be so relentless that they find themselves in the playoffs sooner rather than later. And if things go well, maybe they can find even more point guards to add to the roster.   Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS