Advertisement By FILIP BONDY and  As narrow escapes go, this one was substantially skinny. Canada beat Germany tonight, in the first medal-round Olympic penalty shootout ever, by the width of a hockey puck. The shootout, a nearly random event originally invented for soccer to end matches that would not end, put the most capricious of finishes on a 3-3 tie in a knockout quarterfinal game. Because a puck rolled to a halt exactly on the goal line behind goaltender Sean Burke, instead of rolling across it, Canada won the shootout, 3-2, and advanced to the semifinals. "It's not a good way to end a match," said Ludec Bukac, Germany's head coach. "It's not a game situation. It's better just to keep playing, or even to flip a coin. That's the same thing." Canada Dominates Early In truth, Germany probably did not deserve to win the match, or even to get as far as the shootout. Canada dominated the match, outshooting the Germans by 36-21, and had three goals nullified by Referee Seppo Makela, two on quick whistles and one on a called kick-in by Canadian center Joseph Fabian. Advertisement Nonetheless, German goaltender Helmut De Raaf played spectacularly at times, and Ernst Koepf tied the match 17 minutes 38 seconds into the third period with a deflection past Burke from the slot. Ten minutes of overtime produced no goal, so the two teams went to the shootout. Advertisement As in soccer, each team was given five shots by five different players. The Canadians took a quick 2-0 lead on shootout scores by Jason Woolley and Wally Schreiber, but Burke failed to stop the final two German shooters, Michael Rumrich and Andreas Brockmann. With the score knotted again, the shootout continued. Unlike in soccer, the two teams were permitted to repeat shooters. Eric Lindros went low, to the right, to beat De Raaf along the ice. That left it to German center Peter Draisaitl, who wristed a shot beneath Burke's body, then watched in agony as the puck slowed and stopped dead on the goal line.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "That was the most dramatic finish I have ever seen to an international match," German center George Holzmann said. "We might have won. The Canadians were not as strong as we thought they would be." Although not all the Canadian players were in love with this rarely used system -- the only other Olympic game to be decided by a shootout was France's victory over Norway in a 1988 game for 11th place -- they were well prepared for the possibility. The team had practiced the shootout for two successive days, and the coaches had discussed on Monday which players would shoot and in what order. "That allowed us to maintain our concentration," Wayne Fleming, a Canadian assistant coach, said. "We had it set up the way it had to be set up." The Canadians came into the game as the top-seeded team from Group B, with a round-robin record of 4-1. Germany, which will play in the consolation matches to determine fifth through eighth places, was 2-3 before the game, a fourth-place finisher in Group A. "If we hadn't had a shootout, we'd be there until tomorrow morning," Fleming said. "That's how well the goalies were playing." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 19, 1992, on Page B00012 of the National edition with the headline: ALBERTVILLE; Canadians Survive, By Inches.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »