Advertisement By THOMAS GEORGE and  BACK home in the city where he remains a strong role model and a favorite son, Andre Ware arrives at Gold's Gym prepared for a grueling workout that will last nearly six hours, complete with weight lifting and aerobics. Ware is confident that the 1992 National Football League season, his third as a Detroit Lions quarterback after winning the 1989 Heisman Trophy at the University of Houston, will be different from the first two. Something has to give, he said. This was Thursday at 1 P.M., a few days after he had completed spring courses at the University of Houston where he continues to work toward his degree in business management. Now his complete focus is on football. On becoming a starter. On fulfilling his promise. In 32 regular-season games with the Lions, he has made one start -- and that in his rookie year, when he was pulled at halftime in a game against the Minnesota Vikings, with Detroit trailing by only 7-0. He has played in only six regular-season games as a Lion. He has attempted only 30 passes. He is frustrated, which is evident as he munches on a sandwich between the weight lifting and the aerobics. "Can you imagine being an N.F.L. quarterback and not throwing one pass last year during all of the regular-season games?" Ware asked, offering an incredulous glare between bites. "That's hard to understand, hard to cope with. And I only played in one regular-season game last year. I knelt down for two plays to end a game at Minnesota." Ware never thought it would be this way. He was one of the most prolific passers in National Collegiate Athletic Association history at Houston and figured that when he was the seventh player chosen in the 1990 N.F.L. draft and wound up in Detroit, the fit would be perfect. The Lions used a run-and-shoot offense similar to the one he had directed at Houston. When he stayed out of training camp during a contract squabble, he thought that his familiarity with the offense would help overcome his absence. Advertisement It did not. Ware signed just before the last pre-season game that year and arrived with plenty of confidence, which some of his teammates viewed as aloofness and cockiness. Rodney Peete won the starting job in 1990, and by training camp the following season Ware found himself No. 3 behind Peete and Erik Kramer. That is exactly where he is slotted now. Advertisement The Lions have talked about bringing Ware along slowly, the way most N.F.L. quarterbacks are, and not throwing him to the carnivores and damaging his confidence. In effect, what they have tried to avoid has happened anyway. "It's one thing to be brought along slowly and quite another to not be brought along at all," Ware said. "There have been so many games in the last two years where we were either way ahead or way behind and I'm just standing on the sidelines. I go to the coaches after the game and ask why I'm not being put in and they say, 'We thought about putting you in.' We thought about it? What's that? "I tell you, there are times that I go to pick up my check on Mondays and I feel so guilty. I'm not playing and getting paid and I don't like it. When you've had a taste of success, you're hungry and you want to taste it again. I am very hard on me. I am not content being a backup to Rodney." Ware had two different quarterback coaches -- Mouse Davis and Raymond Berry -- in his first two seasons and now has a third, Dan Henning, who was dismissed as head coach of the San Diego Chargers after last season. "Andre was in mind and was part of Wayne Fontes's thinking when we went after Dan," said Chuck Schmidt, Detroit's executive vice president and chief operating officer. "One of the problems with Andre Ware playing more has been the development of Rodney Peete," Schmidt continued. "Rodney's had severe injuries, but he has always bounced back and played well. Rodney will enter training camp at No. 1 but it's not like we have a Joe Montana here. In the preseason, anything can happen." Henning said: "I'm going to work with Andre and he's going to get every opportunity to succeed. My first impressions are that he is a bright guy, who's not very voiciferous, who is interested and studies. He's athletic with a strong arm. But until that quarterback puts pads on and gets under fire, you never know. Guys in this league, regardless of their background, either make it or not. I feel I can help Andre, but it still comes down to him. A quarterback has to have the ability to blame himself every once and awhile." Advertisement Schimdt said Ware has never pouted or refused to take his share of snaps. Sometimes, though, Schimdt said, Ware has more bounce in practice than at other times. Sometimes, he said, he can tell the situation has weighed on Ware's mind. Schmidt and Fontes said they have "no plans whatsoever" to trade Ware. "I'm not going to do anything or say anything out of frustration," Ware said. "But if things keep going like they have, I will speak out behind closed doors this year. I think my teammates now feel more comfortable with me and know I'm all about performing and winning. I want this to be a big year for me in Detroit -- or somewhere else."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. And if speaking privately doesn't help, would Ware consider speaking out publicly? "It's possible," he said. One reason Ware's status with the Lions has been harder for him to accept is because throughout high school and college, he was always a starter, always a star. When he won the Heisman Trophy, "the city of Houston opened its arms to me and I was their kid," Ware said. "The question I'm asked most is when am I coming back to Houston to join the Oilers?" Ware completes his aerobics at about 6:30 P.M., and drives to his home in nearby Sugar Land, Texas. His mother, Joyce Ware, who lives about 40 miles away in League City, is waiting for him. An only child, Ware shares a tight bond with her, evident in their warm embrace and easy communication. Fifteen minutes later, Ware heads for a nearby high school field to work on his passing with a boyhood friend, Anthony Ross, where he will remain until darkness falls. "I talk to my mom nearly every day and when we don't talk for a day, the next time we do it's at least for two hours," Ware said. "You look at guys involved in drugs and alcohol who are just drifting, and I admire my mom so much for being a single parent and giving me the strongest example of how to live my life." Ware's father, Robert, died of pneumonia when Andre was only 7 years old, "and when my mom at the time was only about 24," he said. "We'd get on the floor together and shoot marbles and we liked to play cards," Ware said. "She always had to work, so in junior high and in high school, I was left alone a lot at home. That's why I value time alone to myself and why I first try to solve problems by myself before talking about them. But at my games in high school, it was very difficult watching my teammates's parents at the games and neither of mine being there. I think my teammates on the Lions are just beginning to understand that about me, that I'm a loner but I'm a team player." Ware was such a standout team player as a schoolboy that he has always known what his career would be. Advertisement "I knew from the age of 11 that football would be the ticket for me to earn a college degree," Ware said. "I had it set in my mind that I would get that degree and make the best of it from there. The N.F.L. would be gravy. I grew up at first in a one-bedroom apartment that me and my mom shared and she worked hard for me to have everything I needed. I was always studious in school for her and for me. One day I dreamed I could repay her, that one day I would have a nice house and a dependable car and get the same for her." It is 8:40 P.M. when Ware finishes the passing drills and returns to his sparkling, five-bedroom brick home in Sugar Land, parking his sparkling new Lexus Coupe next to the one he bought his mother. Later he sits in his office, talking about his off-season campaign to make himself a success in the fall. Four days a week, Ware said, he maintains the training pace he exhibited on this day. At the end of this month, he said, he will begin throwing with University of Houston receivers. He will return to Michigan for at least two meetings with Henning and for a Lions' passing camp in June. "Some of my friends say, 'Look, you're making millions, you've got your health, just take the money and wait,' " Ware said. "I'm just not that way. I think I have talent, but more than that, I have determination. I hope that coach Henning will give everything a fresh spin for me in Detroit. I would like to play all of my career in Detroit, but more than that, I just want to play anywhere. "If I were playing behind Warren or Joe Montana, a couple of seasoned veterans, I could handle it better," said Ware, who is 23 years old. "But I'm in a group of young quarterbacks like myself and really feel I haven't had the best opportunity." The Lions say that Ware has it all: intelligence, ability, attitude. Ware is, in short, their quarterback of the future. Ware hopes the future is now. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 17, 1992, on Page 8008002 of the National edition with the headline: FOOTBALL; Ware Works Toward a Trophy Season.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »