Advertisement By JOSEPH DURSO One day after Pine Bluff was forced to end his racing career with a foot injury, the undefeated colt Furiously was forced yesterday to interrupt his career with a hoof injury that will prevent him from racing Sunday in the Dwyer Stakes at Belmont Park. Beyond that, nobody in the colt's stable would predict the impact on his career. A son of Danzig and a grandson of Northern Dancer, Furiously didn't race at all last year at the age of 2 because he was big and awkward and kept barking his shins. But at 3, he has streaked. In three starts in three months, he has won by a combined total of 31 lengths and nobody has come within nine lengths of him. But the colt still faced the crucial phase of his skyrocketing climb to success: racing against veterans of the Triple Crown classics and other experienced 3-year-olds, and that was the phase he was to enter in the Dwyer. And that race, in turn, was expected to position him for a late run at the year's honors in major races like the $500,000 Haskell Invitational on Aug. 2 and the $1 million Travers on Aug. 22, and perhaps even the Breeders' Cup on Oct. 31. Deep Bruise? That entire schedule was jeopardized yesterday when Shug McGaughey disclosed that the colt, after sizzling five furlongs in 583/5 seconds on Wednesday morning, had come back with some heat on the inside quarter of his right front hoof. Advertisement "I'm not sure exactly what it is," the trainer said. "I'm hoping it's just a deep-seated bruise. I thought he'd just jammed it, so we pulled the shoe, hoping it would get better by the afternoon." Advertisement No abscess was detected, so McGaughey treated the foot by dipping it in tubs of medication, and later took X-rays. Nothing showed, but in the morning there was no doubt that Furiously had a problem.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "It was bad this morning," McGaughey said, "so I put a bar shoe on and we've been tubbing him. "I'm hoping it's short-term. I'm a little confused right now as to what it is, so I don't want to say when he'll go back to the track. I'm not positive it's a bruise." Furiously is owned by the Mill House stable of Nicholas Brady, the Secretary of the Treasury; his brother, James Cox Brady Jr., and their two sisters, Eliot Stewart and Elizabeth Richards. His trainer, who also handled the champions Easy Goer and Personal Ensign, said, "He has as much talent as I've ever seen." But he still has not challenged stars of the season like Pine Bluff, also a son of Danzig, who ran fifth in the Kentucky Derby, first in the Preakness and third in the Belmont Stakes. Any chance of a confrontation was wiped out Wednesday when Pine Bluff was retired after tearing a ligament in his left foreleg, an injury apparently suffered during a routine gallop at Belmont one week earlier. Entries Today The absence of Furiously will remove the hottest young colt of the season from the Dwyer. When the entries are filed today for the mile-and-an-eighth race, they are expected to include Big Sur, Speakerphone and Three Peat and possibly Agincourt and Windunermywings. The cost of not running could be significant for Furiously. He was already racing on a tight schedule trying to catch his contemporaries in experience. But he now faces the extra complication of losing time with his injured hoof, and he still needs to progress one race at a time before tackling the best 3-year-olds in the country at a mile and a quarter in the Travers at Saratoga. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 3, 1992, on Page B00009 of the National edition with the headline: HORSE RACING; Furiously Injured; Will Miss The Dwyer.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »