Advertisement By GEORGE VECSEY SOMEDAY soon, it will all be antiseptic, the players laboring dry and clean on some artificial carpet in the sterility of a dome. And what a shame. The spectacle of the Redskins and the Falcons, slogging in the mud of Robert F. Kennedy Stadium, was a gripping throwback to the old days well beyond the Decatur Staleys and the Frankford Yellow Jackets, back to the time when tribes would battle each other on some rainswept plain. With a cold, hard rain swirling around the stadium, there was nothing slick and fancy and entrepreneurial about it, just a bunch of mean, muddy warriors clobbering each other. The wonder is that they played as well as they did yesterday, as the Redskins beat the Falcons, 24-7, to advance to the conference final in this very same primeval swamp next Sunday. Advertisement The quarterbacks still managed to complete passes, 14 of 29 for the Redskins, 17 of 32 for the Falcons, on an afternoon when it wasn't easy to take notes with a pen and pad in an open press box. Advertisement But a game like this is decided on the line of scrimmage, by a resolute game plan, and the Redskins were far more willing to put their trust in their sturdy tackles and guards, to open holes for runners who would tuck the ball against their bellies and rumble low to the mud. "To be honest with you, it's easier for the offense than the defense because you know what you're going to do," said Russ Grimm, the stocky guard who goes back to when the Washington linemen reveled in calling themselves the Hogs. Grimm said he personally enjoyed the idea of rooting around in the mud: "When you're a little kid, you love to play in the mud. We still do." The Redskins agreed that they felt the day was theirs when they looked out the window in the morning. "The Falcons are a big-play team," said Mark Adickes, a reserve lineman. "One time it looked like Deion Sanders might go all the way but he slipped. We're more used to it. We've never called a practice off in all the time I've been here. I was just chomping at the bit to get in there. I've got little mud particles everywhere, and I only played the last series."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. If the 55,181 cold fans had been asked, they might have voted for some pleasure dome, like the one opening up next year in sultry Atlanta, but being football fans, deep down in their hearts, they know this is the real game. And they were present at it. The feeling of a medieval struggle began before the opening kickoff, as the black-clad Falcons brandished a Redskins helmet in the air, like some grisly trophy of war. The helmet was probably purchased at a souvenir stand, but the way the Falcons pranced around, they might just as well have ripped it right off the head of a Redskins player. The gesture was pure Jerry Glanville, the coach who wears black outfits and imbues his team with a biker mentality. Advertisement The Falcons came into this game with a 10-6 record and thought they were the greatest thing since somebody first came up with the idea of pouring gravy over hot biscuits. The Redskins, on the other hand, had already beaten the Falcons this season, and came into the game with a 14-2 record, but official Washington was suitably nervous about this confrontation. In this one-industry town, the Redskins are the most tangible sign of civic honor. Soon a tiny Volkswagen Beetle will pull up in front of Congress and 100 senators will climb out while a calliope plays. The fans surely do not want the dignified circus to end before the Super Bowl three weeks from today. It is basically a one-team town. Baseball is a noble lost cause, ancient history, the Big Train and Camilo Pascual and memories of big Frank Howard breaking seats in the upper deck. The locals recognize this fixation on the Redskins. The Washington Post ran a perfectly fine article interviewing psychologists about the imminent letdown should the Redskins lose. It was like the obligatory pieces that come out every December about the potential for free-form holiday anxieties. On Monday morning, grief counselors would be posted at every checkpoint in the Federal government. Show your ID card and discuss your mourning. But the fans averted depression for another week, and celebrated by scaling yellow, giveaway foam-rubber cushions toward the muddy field. Some may still be buried there, along with the Falcons' hopes. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 5, 1992, on Page 8008001 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; The Mud Is Redskins' Element.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »