Advertisement 
Sports of The Times  By                     
 DAVE ANDERSON
 
JULY 13, 2014
 Near the end of the film “The Greatest Game Ever Played,” the story of the 20-year-old amateur Francis Ouimet’s upset of the celebrated British golfers Harry Vardon and Ted Ray in the 1913 United States Open, Vardon, played by the actor Stephen Dillane, congratulates Ouimet in the locker room. “We should play again sometime,” Vardon says softly, as he turns and walks away. A year later they did. Ouimet’s friends in the Boston area chipped in to send him to the 1914 British Open at Prestwick, Scotland, where he finished a distant 26 strokes behind Vardon’s winning score. Just as Ouimet’s triumph lives in American golf lore, Vardon’s victory 100 years ago defined his stature as the only six-time British Open “champion golfer of the year” and the folk hero of professional golf’s formative era. Vardon formed the so-called Great Triumvirate with John H. Taylor and James Braid, who each hoisted five claret jugs. So did Tom Watson, who almost won a sixth at age 59 in 2009, and Peter Thomson of Australia. Walter Hagen, Bobby Jones and Jack Nicklaus each won three; so has Tiger Woods, now in a comeback from spinal surgery at this week’s British Open at Royal Liverpool. A century later, Vardon’s six stand alone; he shares with Nicklaus’s six Masters the record for the most victories in one major. Advertisement Who knows how many more Vardon might have won if, two weeks after his sixth, World War I had not been sparked by the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand in Sarajevo. The Open would not be played again until 1920, when Vardon was 50. Advertisement Vardon won seven career professional majors, which was equaled by Arnold Palmer, Sam Snead, Gene Sarazen and Bobby Jones. But how many more might Vardon have won if he had played in more than three United States Opens? He won in 1900 at the Chicago Golf Club, was second to Ouimet in their memorable 1913 playoff at The Country Club outside Boston, and tied for second at age 50 in 1920 at Inverness in Toledo, Ohio. He never played in the P.G.A. Championship, which began in 1916, or the Masters, which began in 1934. Vardon grew up as a caddie on the Isle of Jersey off the southern coast of England. He was to British golf at the turn of the last century what Bobby Jones would be to American golf in the Roaring Twenties. In the years after the first British Open in 1860 at Prestwick on Scotland’s western shore, Old Tom Morris and his son, Young Tom, from St. Andrews on the eastern shore, dominated the tournament, each winning four times. But in the 1890s, the handsome, trim Englishman named Vardon arrived.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. After winning the British Open in 1896 at Muirfield (in a 36-hole playoff with Taylor), in 1898 at Prestwick (as the first with four rounds in the 70s) and 1899 at Royal St. George’s (first prize paid 90 pounds), he sailed to the United States as golf’s first international ambassador. During his 1900 tour of 65 exhibition matches (he won 50, lost 13 and halved 2), he won that year’s United States Open while promoting a Spalding gutta-percha golf ball known as the Vardon Flyer. After returning to Britain, he won the British Open again in 1903 at Prestwick, becoming the only champion with two wire-to-wire victories. But late that year he contracted tuberculosis. Although he contended in several British Opens, the illness affected his putting for years. In 1911 at Royal St. George’s, he won his fifth Open in a playoff with the Frenchman Arnaud Massy. By his count, Vardon won 62 tournaments, surely the most for any golfer of his era. He later designed courses, coached young golfers, and wrote instruction books and magazine articles. In his honor, the P.G.A. of America awards the Vardon Trophy each year to the tour golfer with the lowest adjusted scoring average. Woods has won nine; Lee Trevino and Billy Casper each five. For more than a century, golfers around the world may not have realized they were using the overlapping Vardon Grip, with the little finger of the lower hand between the index and middle fingers of the upper hand. Vardon also popularized knickers as a fashion statement; they’re usually known as plus fours, named because they are pants that come down to the knee, plus four inches. Sarazen, the first to complete a career grand slam of the four modern majors when he won the Masters in 1935, wore plus fours throughout his career. In a throwback gesture, Payne Stewart wore plus fours when he won the 1999 United States Open four months before his death in a plane crash. On and off the course, one way or another, Harry Vardon inspired most of today’s golf’s culture, notably with his six British Open titles that remain an unmatched monument 100 years later. A version of this article appears in print on July 14, 2014, on Page D9 of the New York edition with the headline: Caddie Who Mastered the Game.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »