Advertisement By ROBIN FINN and  Once upon a time, Andre Agassi, who has been using his racquet like a power lawn mower at Wimbledon this year, avoided this daunting Grand Slam event as if the big, bad wolf was hiding in the grass. Once upon a time, John McEnroe, who has been relishing his role as the aged outsider and flirting with his tennis afterlife, was the big, bad wolf here. But the times have surely changed. The men's semifinal round Friday at clammy Wimbledon will be contested by three pretenders -- Agassi, Pete Sampras and Goran Ivanisevic -- and one grayed and frayed ex-champion, McEnroe, whose protests that he's not really a logical contender have begun to grow faint. Completing quarterfinal matches that were left stranded by showers Wednesday, Agassi crashed past a three-time champion, Boris Becker, 4-6, 6-2, 6-2, 4-6, 6-3, in a tenuous five-setter while the unseeded McEnroe outstripped his own ranking of 30th in the world and Guy Forget's favored position as this event's No. 9-seeded player with a brash 6-2, 7-6 (9-7), 6-3 victory today. Untypical Victory on Grass These victories both constituted upsets in the numerical sense. And in the case of Agassi's bravura putdown of Becker, the player who has fancied himself the king of this particular court ever since he won here at age 17, the result was virtually traumatic. Neither Becker nor those grass-court purists who thought this surface to be the last and proper vestige of the classic serve-and-volley stylist anticipated such insouciance from the blond-maned Las Vegan. Advertisement "I have not seen anybody on grass playing that kind of tennis, I mean, from the back," said a blank-eyed Becker, who had galloped into six of the previous seven Wimbledon finals. "He hit some shots that were not in the book, you know. You cannot play better tennis than he did on grass." Advertisement On Friday, the 22-year-old Agassi, a baseline bomber who is making the biggest splash on grass of his splotchy career, will face his part-time mentor in the 33-year-old McEnroe, a three-time champion who has become increasingly comfortable with the notion of staging his last hurrah right here. "In general, I like to see the best for him," McEnroe said of Agassi, "but I don't want the best for him in the next match." Their progress, after Sampras's, guaranteed that three Americans would participate in the semifinals, which hasn't happened here since 1982, and that there would be at least one American in the final. The last all-American Wimbledon final occurred in 1984, when McEnroe, who also happens to be the last American to win here, defeated Jimmy Connors. Sampras Against Ivanisevic Sampras, like Agassi enjoying his best Wimbledon run, will face Ivanisevic, a fellow 20-year-old serving machine, in the other semifinal. Ivanisevic, a Croatian who has rattled off 133 aces here so far this year, said he would approach the match with more ambition than he took into this same round against Becker two years ago. "Last time, it was like going to the cinema," he said. "I had great fun there, but I didn't believe I could win."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. McEnroe earned the trip to his 19th career Grand Slam semifinal largely by browbeating Forget in their second-set tie breaker, where he argued and hissed and eventually staved off six set points before needing just one of his own to assume a two-sets-to-none lead and total control of the match. "It was mine and I let it go," Forget, a 27-year-old Frenchman, said of his collapse in the tie breaker. "That's where I lost the match." Unlike Forget, who tried to compete with McEnroe's volume of volleys, Agassi stuck to the tried and true against Becker. Secure at the baseline, he used his backhand passing shot to thwart Becker's every attempt to preside at the net. Advertisement Becker saved four match points, the first on an overrrule that cost Agassi a double-fault. "I'd probably be arrested for some of the thoughts I had, but it was really frustrating," said Agassi, who laughed it off but wound up losing his serve for just the third time in the match. 'Hoping for a Lot' Granted a second chance to serve for the match, Agassi, who has now defeated Becker in six consecutive meetings, converted his fifth match point when the German dumped a backhand service return into the net. "There's only a few people who show up at Wimbledon who come to win, and I'm one of them," Agassi said. "It's hoping for a lot, but that's what I'm here for. I'm two matches away, and Goran's the only one left in tournament I haven't beaten before." Agassi said he felt honored merely to face McEnroe, his tutor in the art of combining a compact grass-court backswing with "nonneutral" playmaking, on Wimbledon's center court. McEnroe refused to succumb to flattery and said he intended to treat that praise just as he treated Forget's comments about their "dream" quarterfinal. "I think that's sort of a gimmick," said the crochety New Yorker. "It's garbage. It's a good notch on their belt, that's all. Do you think Forget is honored to play me now that I just beat him in three straight?" We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 3, 1992, on Page B00007 of the National edition with the headline: TENNIS; It's Red, White and Hullabaloo at Wimbledon.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »