Advertisement By SANDRA BAILEY and  Go ahead, ask Gigi Fernandez why she's playing for the United States and not her native Puerto Rico in these Olympics. "If I played for Puerto Rico," said Fernandez, "I would be home." Instead, here she was today, fresh off the clay of Vall d'Hebron and wearing the gold medal that she and Mary Joe Fernandez had just won with a 7-5, 2-6, 6-2 victory over Arantxa Sanchez Vicario and Conchita Martinez of Spain. Don't think she isn't proud, but don't think she doesn't know her heart. "I still feel Puerto Rican," said Fernandez. "My whole family is there." Her decision not to play for the United States protectorate was controversial in Puerto Rico. "I'm very proud for Puerto Rico, I'm very proud for the U.S. I'm very proud." Switzerland's First Medal No prouder than Marc Rosset was as he claimed the first medal of these Summer Games for Switzerland, a gold achieved in a 7-6 (7-2), 6-4, 3-6, 4-6, 8-6 journey into sundown with Jordi Arrese of Spain that took 5 hours 3 minutes. Advertisement It was a match between Arrese, at No. 30 in the world the lowest-ranking man on Spain's Olympic team, and Rosset, No. 43 in the world. Advertisement Rosset is known as the Brat back home in Switzerland because, as he freely admits, "I say anything that comes into my head." Today, he needed to say nothing after he served 33 aces, three coupled with a winner to hold serve at love in the penultimate game before he fired off a runaround forehand winner to break Arrese at match point. Rosset took charge early in the match, winning the first-set tie breaker with three aces, but grew weary as the crowd grew louder. In the third and fourth sets, when Arrese's big forehand loomed bigger and Rosset found himself running from side to side, he became so exhausted, he said, he thought about defaulting. "A couple of times I wanted to go to the locker room and drink a few Cokes," said Rosset, who was unranked in this Olympic tournament. "But when I was thinking of stopping, I knew everybody is going to kill me. You can't just quit because you are tired." So he waited until the clouds moved in during the fifth set, and he tried a thought process that hasn't failed him yet. "I was thinking to concentrate on my serve," he said, and his last two games were served out at love. In the morning, the possibilities for Spain had seemed great. Here was Arrese in singles and Sanchez Vicario and Martinez in doubles and everywhere were the flags and signs. "Endavant Jordi, Catalunya es amb tu," and "Aranxta-Conchita, Catalunya vol l'or" they implored: "Go forward Jordi, Catalonia is with you" and "Aranxta-Conchita, Catalonia wants gold." If the point needed reinforcing, King Juan Carlos and Queen Sofia strode in during the second set of the doubles. They had missed a first set in which Sanchez Vicario double-faulted twice, the second time to give the Americans the set. There was more where that break came from.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The second set opened with Gigi Fernandez losing her serve, and when Martinez followed by losing hers, all four women had been broken. Mary Joe Fernandez put a stop to the pattern in the next game to make it 2-1 in the Americans' favor, then in came the royalty and the Americans went south. "Once the king and queen got there, we didn't win a game," Mary Joe Fernandez said. "Bad timing." Sanchez Vicario held serve in the next game despite 2 break points, Gigi Fernandez was broken, Martinez held, Mary Joe Fernandez was broken at love and Sanchez Vicario closed out the set with a service winner for 6-2. Advertisement "It's not normal doubles, because in normal doubles you think you're going to hold your serve," said Marty Riessen, the coach of the United States women's team. "We said going in, 'If you lose your serve, go back out and break back.' " In a match with 13 service breaks, that was inevitable. And, of course, Gigi Fernandez was broken to open the third set, making it six straight games the Americans had lost -- all since the King and the Queen entered. Queen Sofia held her fan demurely, King Juan Carlos leaned forward in his chair and all seemed right with the monarchy. But it came apart when Martinez's serve failed at love, then Mary Joe Fernandez held for a 2-1 advantage, the game ending when Sanchez Vicario making one of the 27 forehand errors she committed in the match. She atoned somewhat by holding for 2-2 and then came a remarkable occurrence: Gigi Fernandez held serve for the first time since the first set. "My serve disappeared for a set," said Gigi Fernandez, who won the French Open and Wimbledon doubles this year with Natalya Zvereva. "It was the worst possible time. I finally got some first serves in and Mary Joe helped me out at the net, and I think that was the difference in the match." The Americans cashed in their second break point of the next game with a backhand volley drop shot by Mary Joe Fernandez, who then held her own serve for a 5-2 advantage. Then up stepped Sanchez Vicario to serve and she not only double-faulted herself into a 15-30 hole, she ended it all by flailing a backhand volley into the net of a forehand winner by Mary Joe Fernandez. "We had the chance to win but played nervously," said Sanchez Vicario, whose bronze in singles and silver were both achieved under the watchful eye of the King and Queen. The Fernandezes -- the 28-year-old from San Juan with the heavy knee brace and No. 25 ranking, and the seventh-ranked 20-year-old from the Dominican Republic -- closed out an Olympics in which American women won the singles gold of Jennifer Capriati and this doubles gold while the men came with No. 1 Jim Courier, No. 3 Pete Sampras and No. 6 Michael Chang and left empty. "I'm sure it doesn't make up for it to them," Riessen said of the women's success and the men's disappointment. "It'll take four years to make up for it to them." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 9, 1992, on Page 8008002 of the National edition with the headline: BARCELONA: TENNIS; Fernandez Doubly Proud With Her Doubles Gold.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »