Advertisement By MARY PILONJULY 11, 2014
 The pop violinist Vanessa-Mae was perhaps the most unlikely athlete at the Sochi Olympics. A former child star in Britain, she competed in the giant slalom ski race for Thailand, her father’s home country. On Friday, ski officials in Slovenia announced that Vanessa-Mae, 35, never should have been allowed to compete in the Olympics because the results of her qualifying races were rigged. Four Slovenian ski officials were suspended on Friday amid allegations that they manipulated her qualification. The Slovenian Ski Association found evidence that qualifying races in Sweden, Norway, Slovenia and Switzerland had been fixed in a manner that benefited Vanessa-Mae, said Jurij Zurej, the director of the Slovenian Ski Association. Advertisement In Sochi, Vanessa-Mae competed as Vanessa Vanakorn, using the surname of her Thai father, and finished last among 67 racers in the giant slalom, 50.1 seconds slower than Tina Maze of Slovenia, the gold medalist. Vanessa-Mae skied her two Olympic runs in a total of 3 minutes 26.97 seconds. Advertisement Representatives of Vanessa-Mae did not immediately respond to requests for comment. The results of her qualifying races were recorded in such a sloppy way, officials said, that in at least one competition the results included an athlete who did not compete, and another athlete who crashed was recorded as finishing high in the standings, Zurej said.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “We are not even prepared to take part of any activities that are wrong,” Zurej said. “This reputation we have is really based on hard work, and we are not prepared to jeopardize that.” The association was first notified of problems with the race in late February, Zurej said, and then began its investigation. “We could not prove the athletes were involved,” he said. The sport’s world governing body, known by the abbreviation F.I.S., declined to comment until a final report from the Slovenian Ski Association is reviewed, probably next week. Vanessa-Mae has sold more than 10 million records. Born in Singapore, she grew up in England and holds British and Thai passports. Her qualification in Sochi made her one of only two athletes from Thailand to compete at the Games. A version of this article appears in print on July 12, 2014, on Page D7 of the New York edition with the headline: Race-Fixing Let Musician Reach Sochi, Ski Group Says.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »