Because of the ruthless speed with which won early-round matches, five-time Grand Slam champion Tony Trabert once joked that Steffi Graf played “as if double-parked.” Nearly two decades later, No. 2 seed Vera Zvonareva played her third round match at the 2011 U.S. Open as if she had put several dollars worth of quarters into the meter. Facing a fellow counter-puncher in No. 30 seed Anabel Medina Garrigues, Zvonareva played offensive tennis only sparingly, hesitant to deliver any sort of knockout punch in the two-hour match.  Medina Garrigues, who has a lowly 1-19 career record against top-five opponents, never trailed by more than two games at any point in the match, able to stay within striking distance through the short jabs that Zvonareva threw at her.  After going down an early break, the Spanish veteran broke back midway through the second set, leveling the frame at 3-3. But where Zvonareva lost her poise and grew frustrated against second round opponent Kateryna Bondarenko, the Russian’s focus did not waiver Friday. Zvonareva maintained her calm, breaking back four games later to retake the lead at 6-5. Zvonareva clinched her spot in the fourth round a few points later, firing off her sixth ace on match point for a 6-4, 7-5 victory. Zvonareva next faces the winner of German No. 22 seed Sabine Lisicki and American Irina Falconi. Journalists from The New York Times and The International Herald Tribune (along with a few dedicated fans) are following the Grand Slam tournaments, on and off the court. They will provide updates, insights, links and analysis while setting the scene from the stands as well as the press room. 
			This blog’s regular features, including live tournament analysis, news and notes from Christopher Clarey, Ben Rothenberg and others, and other coverage, can now be found on the tennis section front.Read more… 
			Venus Williams, ranked No. 63, beat No. 2 Victoria Azarenka in Tokyo on Tuesday, her first win over a player in the top two since 2009.Read more… 
			The United States learned on Wednesday that it would host a first-round tie with Britain for the 2014 Davis Cup.Read more… 
			According to one celebrity marketing index, Andy Murray is the most appealing of the so-called Big Four in men’s tennis. Read more… 
			Sloane Stephens walked the runway Thursday night in the Just Dance With Boy Meets Girl fashion show, modeling the designs of Stacy Igel.Read more… Advertisement