It doesn’t seem that Serena Williams will be stopped any time soon. It certainly never appeared possible in any point during the three-time U.S. Open champion’s effortless 6-0, 6-1 second-round victory over 183rd-ranked Michaella Krajicek, a win that improved her 2011 hard court record to 14-0.  As clean as her first-round victory was Serena Williams’ second-round performance was even closer to perfection. Williams again only hit 10 unforced errors for the entire match, but fired a greater number of both winners (25) and aces (10).  It was her tenth career Grand Slam victory in which she lost one or fewer games. As the match raced to its finish, it was all Krajicek could do to quickly dodge out of the way of Williams’ tenth and final ace on match point, flinching away from the ball rather than making any effort to return it. The Dutchwoman evidently decided that injury need not be added to the insult of winning only one game in her 49-minute defeat. In an on-court interview after the match, ESPN’s Pam Shriver asked Williams for the secret behind her improved speed and footwork. “What I do, I pretend there’s like a check for like a million dollars,” Williams said with a laugh. “And if you get it, if you run it down, you get the money tax-free.” As the winner of the Olympus U.S. Open Series, the check Williams is chasing at the 2011 U.S. Open would be worth some $2.8 million. It would be taxed, however. Williams, in a far chattier mood than she has been during any other media interview this week, also offered another secret motivational technique behind her footspeed. “You can pretend someone’s chasing you,” Williams said, gigglling. “But sometimes when someone’s chasing you, you might want to be caught. Just maybe. You never know, you never know.” Playing as well as she is, it’s hard to imagine Williams being caught, even if she wanted to be.  Further, if Thursday’s match served as any indication, it’s unclear that Williams will even be seriously chased. The competition seems just as likely to dive out of the way for the sake of its safety. Journalists from The New York Times and The International Herald Tribune (along with a few dedicated fans) are following the Grand Slam tournaments, on and off the court. They will provide updates, insights, links and analysis while setting the scene from the stands as well as the press room. 
			This blog’s regular features, including live tournament analysis, news and notes from Christopher Clarey, Ben Rothenberg and others, and other coverage, can now be found on the tennis section front.Read more… 
			Venus Williams, ranked No. 63, beat No. 2 Victoria Azarenka in Tokyo on Tuesday, her first win over a player in the top two since 2009.Read more… 
			The United States learned on Wednesday that it would host a first-round tie with Britain for the 2014 Davis Cup.Read more… 
			According to one celebrity marketing index, Andy Murray is the most appealing of the so-called Big Four in men’s tennis. Read more… 
			Sloane Stephens walked the runway Thursday night in the Just Dance With Boy Meets Girl fashion show, modeling the designs of Stacy Igel.Read more… Advertisement