Advertisement By WILLIAM C. RHODEN and  Montell Griffin is brutally frank, unshakeably confident and boxes with a flair that occasionally drives his coaches crazy. Take tonight, for example. In his opening fight at the Summer Olympics, against France Mabiletsa of Botswana, Griffin, a 5-foot-7-inch, 178-pound light- heavyweight, stayed outside when Coach Joe Byrd of the United States told him to dig in and played to the crowd when Byrd told him to focus on the match. But Griffin landed hard punches when he needed them and used his unorthodox style to earn a 10-4 decision over Mabiletsa. "I wasn't all there tonight, it's true," said Griffin, 22 years old. "I was a little sluggish. But I'll come back strong, no question." Advertisement That's merely a tired refrain for most fighters. But in the last two months, Griffin's teammates, as well as United States boxing officials, have learned that Griffin is not one to knowingly throw around slogans. The Long Shot Makes It Advertisement Indeed, of all the members of the United States boxing team, Griffin was the long shot even to reach the box-offs, much less make the Olympic team. And he has had to fight in and out of the ring to get here. After suffering a defeat to Jeremy Williams last month at the United States boxing trials, Griffin was passed over as the most noteworthy opponent, which would have given him a final opportunity to make the team at the box-offs. He was overlooked despite recommendations from Byrd and even though he had a sensational year of competition. Additionally, he had already defeated Terry McCoombs, the fighter who was selected to go to the box-offs in his weight class. "I was about to say forget it," recalled Griffin, who moved from Chicago to Los Angeles in 1989. "Then one night I saw Magic Johnson at a club. I don't know what got into me, but I went up to him and said, 'Hey, I'm going to be in Barcelona with you.' " Griffin hired a lawyer and threatened to sue USA Boxing over its decision not to invite him to the box-off. The selection committee quickly convened and agreed to let Griffin and McCoombs fight. Griffin won handily, then defeated Williams in back-to-back bouts the following Friday and Saturday to earn the final Olympic berth. "I saw Magic yesterday," Griffin said, "and I said, 'I told you I'd be here.' He just laughed." Born Into Boxing  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Griffin's tenacity, his connection to boxing and pursuit of a gold medal have deeper roots than a mere quest for notoriety. Griffin's father, Clarence, trained fighters, and Griffin had his first fight when he was 5 years old. "I was born into boxing," he said. When Griffin was 12, his father, working a fight in Atlantic City, suffered a heart attack and died in the ring. Griffin remembers taking the phone call and hearing the news. "That killed me inside," he said. "I couldn't believe it and it took me a long time to get over it." Advertisement That was in April. In June, Griffin's mother made him stop fighting, and Griffin stayed out of the ring for seven years. He returned in 1989, when he was 19. A Lofty Goal When Griffin resumed training in 1989, he did so with the goal of making the Olympic team. He dedicated his Olympic performance to his father. "Everything I've gone through has made me stronger, made me grow up a little faster, made me more determined," Griffin said. "I've wanted to make the Olympic team ever since 1976. I remember watching the boxing team fight with my father and just thinking that was something I wanted to do. "I guess that's why I'm so determined." PUNCH LINES JULIAN WHEELER, whose wife, MICHELE, gave birth to a boy 12 days ago, became the first American boxer to lose. Wheeler, stationed with the Navy at Virginia Beach, Va., dropped an 8-4 decision to RAMAZI PALIANI of the Unified Team in a 125-pound class bout. It left the United States with a 7-1 record. Cuba has won all nine of its bouts, and Germany is 9-1. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 30, 1992, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: BARCELONA: Boxing; Griffin Fights the Power and Wins Again.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »