There’s a walkway between Courts 6 and 7 that has a few trees set back from the aluminum bleachers. I found some shade in time to watch Ernests Gulbis play Gilles Muller of Luxembourg. This was a particularly tough part of the draw for Gulbis, who upset the 16th seed, Mikhail Youzhny, in straight sets on Tuesday. Like Gulbis, Muller is a dangerous floater, good enough to beat almost anyone, especially if his superb lefty serve is clicking. At Wimbledon this year, Muller tied Rafael Nadal up in knots by serving with precision and variety. This match would be a real test for Gulbis; could he sustain his high level of play against Muller, or would he succumb to the post-upset blues? For the first set and a half, it was all Gulbis. He surprised Muller with huge second serves, and by taking the ball early to hurry Muller in rallies. Gulbis broke Muller early, should have broken him again, and served out the first set, 6-3. He held serve at love to open the second set, broke an increasingly dispirited Muller, then held with ease again. He had Muller down, and Gulbis moved to a break point after a rare double fault from the normally sure-serving Muller. To go up two breaks at this point in the match might have sapped Muller’s competitive will.  In a sense, this break point was a kind of match point for Gulbis. If he converted, he would serve to go up 5 love, which would put him at the door of a two sets to love lead. More importantly, Muller was visibly struggling to stay in the match with Gulbis. But Gulbis seemed to let up, ever so slightly, miscuing on a second serve return, then making a casual forehand error to give Muller an ad.  The match swung on these two misplayed points. Given a reprieve from a death sentence, Muller relaxed, found his rhythm, and promptly broke Gulbis to get back in the match. By failing to secure the second service break, Gulbis passed on an insurance policy for the second set. Another break would have allowed some breathing room. Instead the pressure on Gulbis ratcheted up as Muller’s level of play rose steadily. His lefty serve began to find the corners. He jammed Gulbis with body serves, and used his wide slice serve in the ad court to pull Gulbis out of court. Muller won the second set in a tiebreaker, broke Gulbis early to win the third, then saved several break points with aces and clutch volleys to thwart Gulbis’s comeback in a fourth set tiebreaker. It was a painful lesson for Gulbis, who has improved his work ethic both on and off the court under the guidance of Guillermo Canas. He lost his focus at precisely the moment he needed to move in for the kill. He needed to raise his intensity when he got up 3 love in the second, and do the dirty work of finishing off Muller. Journalists from The New York Times and The International Herald Tribune (along with a few dedicated fans) are following the Grand Slam tournaments, on and off the court. They will provide updates, insights, links and analysis while setting the scene from the stands as well as the press room. 
			This blog’s regular features, including live tournament analysis, news and notes from Christopher Clarey, Ben Rothenberg and others, and other coverage, can now be found on the tennis section front.Read more… 
			Venus Williams, ranked No. 63, beat No. 2 Victoria Azarenka in Tokyo on Tuesday, her first win over a player in the top two since 2009.Read more… 
			The United States learned on Wednesday that it would host a first-round tie with Britain for the 2014 Davis Cup.Read more… 
			According to one celebrity marketing index, Andy Murray is the most appealing of the so-called Big Four in men’s tennis. Read more… 
			Sloane Stephens walked the runway Thursday night in the Just Dance With Boy Meets Girl fashion show, modeling the designs of Stacy Igel.Read more… Advertisement