It’s time to introduce the Detroit Red Wings. Remember them? They’ve been Detroit’s forgotten team, lost in the giddiness of the Tigers playing in the American League Championship Series and the Lions cruising to a 5-1 start. But the Red Wings, very quietly, have been on a torrid streak of their own, starting the N.H.L. season 4-0. One of the keys to the Wings’ fast start is the play of newcomer defenseman Ian White, who is plus-4 with a pair of goals and an assist. White signed with the Wings for two years and $5.75 million in the offseason and was expected to fill the void left by the retirement of Brian Rafalski. White has played for the Maple Leafs, Sharks, Flames and Hurricanes since entering the N.H.L. in 2005.

White told the Detroit News he’s feeling good with the Wings so far, a team that plays his style of hockey. “They pride themselves on hanging on to the puck and making plays,” White said. “They don’t have a whole lot of that dump and chase and have good puck possession. I feel that works good for me.”  White has been paired with team captain Nicklas Lidstrom and they seem to have found chemistry quickly. “It’s been special, obviously he’s one of the best of all-time,” White told the Detroit News. “To get an opportunity to play with him, alongside him, and just watch the way he plays out there is amazing.”  The Wings have also gotten fast starts from Jiri Hudler, Jakub Kindl, Johan Franzen, Valterri Filppula. Hudler and Franzen are a plus-4, with two goals and two assists each. Filppula has a goal and two assists. Kindl, a defenseman, has become a bigger part of the Wings lineup and is a plus-6. Another strength, so far, for the Wings has been the steady goaltending of Jimmy Howard. He’s put up a 1.63 goals against average, good for fifth in the N.H.L. Slap Shot, the New York Times hockey blog, reports on the Rangers, the National Hockey League and anything that glides quickly across a frozen surface anywhere on the globe, from the snowy prairies of Saskatchewan to the frigid steppes of Russia and beyond, like, say, Phoenix.
 
			Thank you for visiting Slap Shot. This blog’s regular features, including live game analysis, reader discussion, news and notes from Jeff Z. Klein and others, can now be found on the Hockey section front.Read more… 
			With the 65th overall pick, the Rangers chose Adam Tambellini, a 6-foot-2 center whose father and brother each played for the Islanders. Read more… 
			The Devils took Anthony Brodeur, an 18-year-old goalie, with the 208th pick of the 211-pick draft, sending their seventh-round pick in 2015 to the Kings in exchange for the chance to pick Brodeur. Read more… 
			The Islanders sent Nino Niederreiter to Minnesota for Cal Clutterbuck, and took defenseman Ryan Pulock with the 15th over all pick in Sunday’s N.H.L. draft.Read more… 
			The Rangers announced Friday that they would not use their remaining compliance buyout this summer, ensuring that Brad Richards will return to the team for at least one more season.Read more… Follow Advertisement