Advertisement By JOSEPH DURSO and  Thunder Rumble, who delivered a rousing upset three weeks ago when he won the Jim Dandy Stakes at odds of 25-1, delivered just as rousing an encore today when he won the $1 million Travers Stakes by four and a half lengths and shot to the head of the class of 3-year-old colts. He not only outran Devil His Due and Dance Floor, but all three of them outran the speed demons in the field of 10: Dixie Brass, who led into the homestretch but faded to finish fourth; Furiously, who won his first three races by 31 lengths but ran sixth in the big one, and Alydeed, the Canadian superstar and the favorite today, who stalked the leader for one mile but retreated in the stretch and finished eighth. In the end, racing's celebrated house of upsets lived up to its billing in the 123d running of the Travers before a crowd of 46,372 spectators that thronged the old track in the countryside. Here was a horse who didn't run in any of the Triple Crown races last spring, who was scratched from the Wood Memorial on the morning of the race with a virus infection, who ran once between the middle of March and the beginning of the Saratoga season, finishing seventh in an allowance race. Even when he won the Jim Dandy and paid $51.80 to anybody smart enough or bold enough to bet $2 on him, people didn't take him seriously. Advertisement In the Travers, running against all that speed, he drew the No. 10 post position on the far outside, and he was the fifth choice in the betting at 7-1. And, if all that weren't enough, he was the only horse in the field who was bred in New York State, which hadn't produced a winner of the Travers in this century. Advertisement "But I don't tell him he's a New York bred," said Richie O'Connell, who trains Thunder Rumble for Konrad Widmer, an economist from Switzerland who had never seen him win a race. Some Nervous Moments Well, Widmer saw him win one today. But as he watched with his trainer, their underdog seemed to be moving from one trap to another. "I was horrified," O'Connell said later. "He went wide at the first turn. He was frequently in a box. He went wide again on the far turn." "And, after all that," he said, "he wins drawing off. I'm impressed." He had a right to be impressed. Three weeks ago, Thunder Rumble won the Jim Dandy at a mile and one-eighth in 1:472/5 , the fastest time in 29 years. Today, he won the Travers at a mile and a quarter in 2:004/5 , delivering the third best time in the history of the race and matching the time set by the renowned Easy Goer three years ago. Herb McCauley, who has ridden Thunder Rumble in all five victories in his seven starts this year, was impressed, too.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "When the horse broke out of the gate," McCauley said, "I saw Dixie Brass shooting for the lead on the fence. He was obviously the speed. I elected to take my horse back and not swing too wide too early. I didn't know if it would work. I didn't know if he would fire when they got down to serious running." Dixie Whistles Most of the serious running was being done by Dixie Brass, who shot the first quarter-mile in 23 seconds and did three-quarters in 1:103/5 . As expected, he was being chased by Alydeed, briefly by Furiously and finally by Thunder Rumble, who made his move with a quarter-mile to go. "When I let him out between the three-eighths and the quarter pole," McCauley said, "I had a ton of horse." Advertisement At the close, the ton of horse had four and a half lengths on Allen Jerkens's Devil His Due, who ran third in the Jim Dandy, and he in turn had four and a half lengths on Dance Floor, who is owned by the rap star Hammer and who had run ninth and last in his last two races. The winner rewarded his partisans with $17.20 for every $2 bet, and rewarded his stable with $600,000. Dixie Brass? His trainer, Dennis Brida, put it simply: "He got tired." Then he added: "He hung as tough as he could. Maybe the mile and a quarter is beyond his scope." Alydeed? His rider, Craig Perret, reported: "I didn't want to go to the lead too soon. But when I asked him to pick it up, he didn't accelerate. I smacked him once, and he didn't give me anything." Furiously? His rider, Mike Smith, said with regret: "I had it clear down the backstretch. but then I look, and here comes that Thunder Rumble. He flew right by me." FINISH LINE Alydeed, who has been running on the medication Lasix to control pulmonary bleeding, was examined after the race but no sign of bleeding was found. . . . The weather was clear, the track was fast and the crowd was betting: $6,529,085 was wagered at the track, a record for Saratoga. The total handle at home and away reached $15,777,166. . . . PAT DAY rode the winners of the first four races, but then his streak was broken. In the Travers, he ran ninth aboard the long shot Hold Old Blue. Then he ran eighth on Devil On Ice in the $122,400 King's Bishop Stakes, which was won by D. WAYNE LUKAS'S Salt Lake, who outran the favored Binalong by three lengths with NICK ZITO'S Agincourt next. Salt Lake raced the seven furlongs in 1:212/5 and paid $19 for $2 to win. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 23, 1992, on Page 8008001 of the National edition with the headline: HORSE RACING; 'Thunder' Rumbles In Travers.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »