Advertisement 

 Michael Powell
 
 
SPORTS OF THE TIMES
JULY 11, 2014
 CLEVELAND — Stumbling across introspection in a star pro athlete is like discovering a string of diamonds in the back of your closet. Experience argues against it. So we have LeBron James. Every night 20,000 fans cheer and/or boo him; ESPN yakkers deconstruct his every word and grimace; women eye him and draw in their breath; and agents whisper man-you-are-soooo-great into his ear daily. Yet, even taking into account that he was working with the skilled and guiding hand of the Sports Illustrated writer Lee Jenkins, James offered a rather stunning display of soul-baring from a man who should, by reasonable expectation, possess a dirigible-size ego. And that made the native son’s return from South Beach to the city by Lake Erie more mysterious, and moving, than you might have guessed. The man who has “Akron” tattooed across his shoulder opened with a breath-catching thrust. Advertisement “Before anyone ever cared where I would play basketball, I was a kid from Northeast Ohio. It’s where I walked. It’s where I ran. It’s where I cried,” he wrote in a note that felt like it was released from his depths. “My relationship with Northeast Ohio is bigger than basketball. I didn’t realize that four years ago. I do now.” The man knows his region, and his audience, and his life. Even as the news broke on television, you could hear out your window Cleveland residents loosening more or less random whoops. Car horns beeped. Strangers exchanged bro-hugs and palm slaps. Advertisement Cleveland tossed aside its hesitant tap dance, one part belligerence and one part please-come-back, and broke into a cathartic jig. This corner of the Rust Belt wears its pride and insecurities like a favorite T-shirt. “Cleveland, you are a winner,” proclaimed a caller on talk radio. “No one can call us losers anymore.” The same talk-radio jabberers who threatened to stomp him like a snake if he rejected Cleveland again proclaimed themselves exorcised Friday. “Don’t hate on LeBron!” warned a sports anchor who only the day before was badmouthing him. But much more was resolutely personal. “We all know what a special place Northeast Ohio is, but to hear it from him, well — ” Melissa Blake, a young lawyer born and raised here, caught herself. “When he left us for Miami, it was like one of us betraying us. Now, it’s moving, it really is.” James should not be viewed as tossing alms to the poor. He returns at a propitious time. Cleveland is well stocked with talent, of the distinctly adolescent variety. The dominant team demographic is 19 to 22, and several of its players have the bravado and swagger of those who just don’t know better. James cavorted with 30-something adults in Miami, everyone acutely aware of his role. LeBron James announced that he was returning to the Cleveland Cavaliers. A look at the rebuilding process that will be needed to secure an N.B.A. championship. James could well end up feeling like a homeroom teacher riding herd on a bunch of middle schoolers. He recognized this, and talked of steeling himself like a parent about to embark on a long cross-country drive with teenagers. “My patience will get tested,” he wrote. “I know that. I’m going into a situation with a young team and a new coach. I will be the old head.” Advertisement No less fascinating is the relationship between James and Dan Gilbert, the Cavaliers’ owner. Gilbert is a billionaire several times over and runs Quicken Loans with a cultlike ferocity. When James left four years ago, Gilbert delivered a brat’s tantrum, likening his former star to the traitorous Benedict Arnold. James offered a mature response. He did not pretend that those attacks had not lanced him. He said his wife and mother were hurt. “It was easy to say, ‘O.K., I don’t want to deal with these people ever again,’ ” he wrote. “I’ve met with Dan, face-to-face, man-to-man. We’ve talked it out. Everybody makes mistakes. I’ve made mistakes as well. Who am I to hold a grudge?” Gilbert, in his initial words — delivered via Twitter — offered only that he now would allow his son to wear his LeBron jersey again. Thanks, Dan. The Gilbert and James relationship comes packed with layered wariness. Gilbert led the hard-line opposition to the players union a few years back. He tends to talk as if his is a tar-paper shack of a franchise.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. James was no less insistent, leading the opposition to the contract that reduced the players’ revenue share to 50 percent. Tears are not in order for this wealthy young man. But it’s worth noting that for all the talk of how he held the N.B.A. hostage to his decision, James will end up signing a contract that will reflect, at best, half his value in an open market. It’s the wonder of professional sports that the nation’s wealthiest capitalists insist on being protected from their free-spending selves. Anyway, basta. It was difficult to walk the sidewalks of downtown Cleveland and not feel the joy. Residents repeatedly say that Northeast Ohio is “the best-kept secret in the Midwest,” and who feels like arguing? For now we have an athlete who seems intent on shouldering a burden his fellow stars tend to sidestep. “My presence can make a difference in Miami, but I think it can mean more where I’m from,” he wrote. “I want kids in Northeast Ohio, like the hundreds of Akron third-graders I sponsor through my foundation, to realize that there’s no better place to grow up. “I’m coming home.” A version of this article appears in print on July 12, 2014, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Star Reconnects With a Special Place in His Heart.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »