Advertisement By JOSEPH SIANO and  To understand how Rick Mears, defending champion in the Indianapolis 500, has held up during a May that has been one of the less-inspiring ones for Penske Racing, you need only hear his own summation of the month. "The checkered flag hasn't fallen yet," Mears replies. That kind of optimism, combined with his familiar patience and emotional reserve, have come in handy in the last few weeks when a few rivets have popped out of the normally seamless Indy program of Penske Racing. But the 40-year-old Mears isn't conceding anything as he tries to win his fifth Indy 500 Sunday. The forecast is for partly sunny skies and mid-60-degree temperatures. If Mears wins, he will break a tie for most victories that he shares with A. J. Foyt and Al Unser Sr. Throughout the month, the team has struggled with a new chassis and engine, which is still the victim of a lot of little shortcomings that must gradually be eradicated. All the while, they have had to watch the new Ford-Cosworths and the always-fast, but seldom reliable, Buicks outrun them. Advertisement The first hard blow came on May 5, when Paul Tracy, a rookie here and one of Penske's three drivers, crashed one of the team's new cars after a careless mistake leaving the pits. Tracy was bruised but otherwise unhurt. Advertisement The hardest shot physically came a day later when Mears, driving the same car he used to win the race last year, spun in water that had leaked out of it and crashed violently, flipping upside down. He still wears a brace on his right wrist when he isn't driving and is working out the soreness a day at a time, keeping his left foot -- already badly broken eight years ago -- elevated to hold down swelling from a minor fracture. "There's no reason to get down until the race is over with," Mears said in one of Penske's garages on Thursday. "And then, if things weren't right, what you do is is sit down and try to figure out why." Roger Mears, Rick's older brother, spent lots of time thrashing through the desert with him while the two were off-road racing, a sport the older Mears still excels in. The two grew up in Bakersfield, Calif. Roger Mears says his younger brother's patience is inherited. "I think probably from our mother," he said, "because she was always that way. And also our grandmother, who just recently passed away. She was noted for that." Has he ever seen his brother get mad? "Yeah, but it's very rare," said Roger Mears, who takes after their more temperamental father. "What he calls mad isn't even mad. A lot of times, I haven't even known it till later on, when he told me. "That's why he's got gray hair and I haven't," he said with a laugh. No Need to Holler Rick Mears, that salt-and-pepper hair unmussed, will tell you there's simply no use in getting angry. Advertisement "I didn't get out of the car hollering and screaming when we lost the race in '82," he said, referring to his loss to Gordon Johncock by 16 hundredths of a second. "I might have gotten frustrated, but what good does it do to holler about it? That doesn't change anything." That makes his mechanics' job a lot easier. "He doesn't hassle the team or the mechanics or the engineers," said Teddy Mayer, the managing director for Penske Cars. "Rick is very positive all the time. And that is an asset that's really invaluable."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. After the wreck, Mears took a day off and resumed practice a day before the pole-qualifying day on May 9. He will start the race ninth, his third-worst starting spot in 15 races here. Early last week, he spent three days at his home in Jupiter, Fla. "I found out what a real couch potato is like," he said. "I tried to spend as much time as possible in the Jacuzzi, in the pool swimming, trying to get a little exercise, work some of the soreness out." A Bandage on Race Day On race day, his right wrist, sprained in the accident, will be wrapped in a bandage. Except for some soreness, he said, he is fine. Emotionally, he recovered much quicker. "As long as I know what caused it," he said of the accident. "If it was something where we didn't know what caused it or I might have caused it, then you sit back and think about it." "In many ways, a driver is a manager," said Mayer, who has worked with Niki Lauda of Austria, James Hunt of England and Alain Prost of France, each a world champion in Formula One. "He's got to manage all the elements around him, and the better managers get further. "I wouldn't say Rick is the greatest manager I've ever seen. But by remaining calm and using what he does have quite well, he gets there. Particularly here at Indy, which he understands quite well." Advertisement Along with his regular teammate, Brazilian Emerson Fittipaldi, Mears hopes he manages to get the Penske Chevy 92 into contention. Mayer said the car's engine, the new Chevy Indy V-8/B, is a little short on horsepower. But Mears wouldn't single out one shortcoming. 'A Lot of Small Things' "It's a lot of small things," Mears said. "I think we've made some gains just in the month we've been here." At one point, he said, there was some consideration of going back to last year's cars and engines. "That game plan was there," he said, "but it never really showed to be better." Mears thinks the cars will be more competitive with the Buicks and Fords on race day than they have been so far this month in practice. "The main thing will be to try to keep in touch," he said. "If we can't run in front, at least stay in touch." Hot weather, Mears said, would benefit his team because it would make all the cars handle poorly, negating the opposition's horsepower edge, and it would put a premium on knowing how to get a car set up perfectly, Mears's forte. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 24, 1992, on Page 8008001 of the National edition with the headline: A DAY AT THE RACES; Rick Mears's Roar and Peace.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »