Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJULY 13, 2014
 Brian Harman used three straight birdies down the stretch to hold off Zach Johnson by one stroke and win the John Deere Classic on Sunday for his first PGA Tour title. Harman had a five-under-par 66 in the final round for a 22-under total of 262 at TPC Deer Run in Silvis, Ill. Harman, a 27-year-old Georgia native in his third full season on the PGA Tour, earned $846,000 and the last exemption for this week’s British Open. Harman withstood Johnson’s challenge by making the three birdies beginning at No. 14 to get to 23 under with two holes to play. Johnson, playing four pairs ahead of Harman, birdied the 17th to get within a stroke but ran out of holes. Jhonattan Vegas had a 65 to finish tied for third with Jerry Kelly (66) at 265. Scott Brown (68) and Tim Clark (67) tied for fifth another shot back. Advertisement The three-time winner Steve Stricker fell off the pace set by Harman on the front nine, then fell off the leader board with a double bogey on the par-3 12th. FIRST MAJOR FOR MARTIN Mo Martin hit the best shot of her life and became a major champion for the first time at the Women’s British Open. Martin hit a 3-wood that struck the pin on the par-5 closing hole at Royal Birkdale in Southport, England, settling six feet for an eagle. An hour later, that turned out to be the winner when neither Inbee Park nor Shanshan Feng could stay under par. Martin, a 31-year-old American, closed with an even 72 on an afternoon so windy that no one broke par in the final round.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ROSE ON TOP IN ABERDEEN Justin Rose won the Scottish Open by two shots after a final-round six-under 65, sealing back-to-back victories on each side of the Atlantic and bolstering his confidence ahead of this week’s British Open. Rose, the 2013 United States Open champion, turned the last day into a procession, rolling in six birdies and going bogey-free on a windless Royal Aberdeen links course on a low-scoring day. Advertisement Kristoffer Broberg, an unheralded Swede, finished second at 14 under after a 66. That qualified him for a place at the British Open, along with two other top-10 finishers, Tyrrell Hatton and Scott Jamieson. Rose, who started the day tied for the lead with Marc Warren, eased to his first win in Europe since 2007 and backed up his victory at the Quicken Loans National at Congressional last month that ended a yearlong drought going back to the United States Open. MONTGOMERIE WINS IN PLAYOFF Colin Montgomerie won a three-hole playoff against Gene Sauers to win the United States Senior Open title at Oak Tree National in Edmond, Okla. Both entered the playoff at five under par. Montgomerie entered the third extra hole with a one-shot lead, then made a putt on No. 18 to par the hole and claim the win. Montgomerie became the fifth golfer to win both the Senior P.G.A. Championship and United States Senior Open in the same year. He led at the end of the first and second days of the Senior Open but entered the final round four shots behind Sauers and shot a two-under 69 to force the playoff. A version of this article appears in print on July 14, 2014, on Page D9 of the New York edition with the headline: In Third Year on PGA Tour, a First Title.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »