Advertisement By JOSEPH DURSO Sheik Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum isn't your basic, everyday, I've-got-the-horse-right-here kind of owner. And that may be appropriate, because Arazi isn't your basic everyday horse, and the $9 million the sheik paid to Allen Paulson last year for 50 percent of the horse isn't your everyday half-share. The sheik is an urbane 42-year-old graduate of Cambridge, the brother of Sheik Maktoum al-Maktoum, the ruler of Dubai, and the Minister of Defense of the United Arab Emirates. But he is well known as one of the world's most involved horsemen, a man who bought his first thoroughbred in 1976 and went on to build a horse-racing empire. The sheik got his first taste of American auctions at the Keeneland sale in Kentucky in 1980, and since then he and his three brothers have become the biggest spenders in a depressed business that needs spenders. At the world-renowned sale at Keeneland last July, the Maktoums spent one-third of the $75 million paid for the young horses. Sheik Mohammed personally spent $18 million to buy 35 horses. He runs his racing stables mainly from Dalham Hall Stud at Newmarket, England, and the Kildangan Stud in County Kildare, Ireland. But he also keeps half a dozen other farms in Britain, where he ranked as the leading owner for five straight years. Altogether, the sheik has more than 500 race horses in training worldwide, and keeps them racing under the guidance of 19 trainers in England, 5 in the United States. 4 in Ireland, 4 in France, 2 in Italy and 1 in Australia. "We love this breed," he said, explaining his family's fascination for the thoroughbred. "These animals are soul and blood and flesh. They are not machines. Sometimes you hit the jackpot. Sometimes you don't." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 26, 1992, on Page 8008011 of the National edition with the headline: HORSE RACING; A Worldly Half-Owner.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »