Updated below with results. Seven of the 16 invitations for next summer’s European Championship have already gone out. Poland and Ukraine are in as hosts, and Germany, Italy, Spain, England and the Netherlands have clinched first place in their qualifying groups. Tuesday’s busy international schedule also includes two intriguing friendlies and four World Cup qualifiers from South America:
Exhibition
Ecuador vs. United States, 7 p.m., ESPN2
Brazil at Mexico, 9:30 p.m., ESPN2
World Cup qualifying
Uruguay at Paraguay
Argentina at Venezuela
Colombia at Bolivia
Peru at Chile Five more automatic spots will be determined Tuesday, the last day of group play. The last four group winners and the best second-place finisher will advance to the main draw. The other eight runner-ups will be paired in playoffs for the tournament’s last four spots; those matchups will be drawn Thursday. Here’s a group-by-group look at what will be decided Tuesday: GROUP A
Germany has won the group and will play a large part in determining who finishes second. Belgium leads Turkey by a point for second, but faces a much tougher road: the Belgians will face the Germans in Dusseldorf (1 p.m., ESPN2), while Turkey is expected to coast past Azerbaijan in Istanbul. GROUP B
Russia seems certain to to claim the automatic berth, needing only a draw against Andorra to finish first. Ireland can in theory leapfrog the Russians in the unlikely event they lose and the Irish beat Armenia in Dublin. But Ireland would be better served by focusing on the result it can control, especially after learning that Robbie Keane will miss the match with a muscle strain. A win or a draw gets the job done; if they lose, Armenia gets the playoff spot.

GROUP C
Italy is through here, but Serbia (15 points) can edge Estonia (16 points, but no games left) for second place if it can win at Slovenia. A tie won’t do it. The Serbs have to win. GROUP D
France leads Bosnia and Herzegovina by a point, but it is limping into the teams’ showdown for first place in Paris. Eric Abidal, Franck Ribery, Karim Benzema, Bacary Sagna and Laurent Koscielny were among the French who missed Friday’s penultimate qualifier, and Patrice Evra (thigh) and Yohan Cabaye (ankle) emerged from the game with injuries. Since France leads the group by a point, a draw will suit it fine, but Edin Dzeko is the type of player who can wreck any coach’s plans. “We’ll have to be careful with him, but he’s not the only one,” France’s Samir Nasri said. “Focusing on Edin would be a mistake.” GROUP E
This one’s easy: the Netherlands has won the group, and Sweden has locked up the playoff spot. But the game in Solna still bears watching, since a win by the Swedes should give them the automatic berth as the best runner-up. GROUP F
Alkis Konstantinidis/European Pressphoto AgencyCroatia surrendered first place in its group to Greece when it lost in Athens last week, but can jump back over the Greeks into first with the right set of results on Tuesday.
Croatia could have won the group on Friday with a victory in Athens, but its 2-0 defeat put Greece in the driver’s seat. But only barely. The Greeks still probably need a win or a tie at Georgia, and they must do it without defenders Avraam Papadopoulos (suspension) and Vassilis Torosidis (rib injury) and striker Giorgios Samaras, who scored the winner Friday but also picked up a yellow card that means he is suspended for the finale. If Greece loses, Croatia can grab the automatic spot by beating visiting Latvia. “We will play for the win because if you aim for a draw, you normally end up losing,” Greece midfielder Costas Katsouranis said. “That’s what happened to the Croatians.”
GROUP G
Nothing to see here. England has won the group, and Montenegro has clinched the playoff berth. The real England news this week was off the field, where Coach Fabio Capello announced that Wayne Rooney’s temper has cost him his place in the team for next month’s friendly against Spain and could keep him on the bench next summer even after his red-card suspension ends.
GROUP H
Portugal travels to Denmark, where the Danes will try to (a) win outright and take the group; (b) tie and head to the playoffs; or (c) keep it close enough to hold off Norway for second. There is even some complicated math that has the Portuguese finishing third and missing out entirely, but it’s as unlikely as Cristiano Ronaldo’s taking a shove at the top of the area and staying on his feet. Portugal clinches with a tie or a win; expect it to get one or the other.
GROUP I
Spain has won the group, and hosts a Scotland team that is hoping for a rare off day for the best team in the world and a bit of good news from its medical staff. Kenny Miller (groin) may not play at all, and Craig Mackail-Smith (back), who scored the winner against Liechtenstein on Friday, and Darren Fletcher (ankle) are questionable. Meanwhile, the Czech Republic, which trails second-place Scotland by a single point, faces a much less daunting task at Lithuania. The best news for Scotland? Spain Coach Vicente Del Bosque says he will try some new players: Valencia left back Jordi Alba could make his debut, and Thiago, Javi Martinez, Pedro and Santi Cazorla could all start. “We are going to try to give everyone a chance,” Del Bosque said, presumably referring to his second-stringers, not the Scots.
Corner kick: Pick your winners in the comments. Can Belgium beat the Germans? Can Bosnia and Herzegovina stun France? Can Scotland do the (seemingly) impossible in Spain?

11:28 p.m. |Five More Places Booked

Denmark, France, Greece and Russia claimed automatic places in next year’s finals by winning their groups, and Sweden took another as the best runner-up.
The other eight second-place finishers — Turkey, Ireland, Estonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Montenegro, Portugal and the Czech Republic — will be paired in home-and-home playoffs to complete the field of 16. Those matchups will be set Thursday, with the games on Nov. 12 and 15. 
 Croatia could have won the group on Friday with a victory in Athens, but its 2-0 defeat put Greece in the driver’s seat. But only barely. The Greeks still probably need a win or a tie at Georgia, and they must do it without defenders Avraam Papadopoulos (suspension) and Vassilis Torosidis (rib injury) and striker Giorgios Samaras, who scored the winner Friday but also picked up a yellow card that means he is suspended for the finale. If Greece loses, Croatia can grab the automatic spot by beating visiting Latvia. “We will play for the win because if you aim for a draw, you normally end up losing,” Greece midfielder Costas Katsouranis said. “That’s what happened to the Croatians.” GROUP G
Nothing to see here. England has won the group, and Montenegro has clinched the playoff berth. The real England news this week was off the field, where Coach Fabio Capello announced that Wayne Rooney’s temper has cost him his place in the team for next month’s friendly against Spain and could keep him on the bench next summer even after his red-card suspension ends. GROUP H
Portugal travels to Denmark, where the Danes will try to (a) win outright and take the group; (b) tie and head to the playoffs; or (c) keep it close enough to hold off Norway for second. There is even some complicated math that has the Portuguese finishing third and missing out entirely, but it’s as unlikely as Cristiano Ronaldo’s taking a shove at the top of the area and staying on his feet. Portugal clinches with a tie or a win; expect it to get one or the other. GROUP I
Spain has won the group, and hosts a Scotland team that is hoping for a rare off day for the best team in the world and a bit of good news from its medical staff. Kenny Miller (groin) may not play at all, and Craig Mackail-Smith (back), who scored the winner against Liechtenstein on Friday, and Darren Fletcher (ankle) are questionable. Meanwhile, the Czech Republic, which trails second-place Scotland by a single point, faces a much less daunting task at Lithuania. The best news for Scotland? Spain Coach Vicente Del Bosque says he will try some new players: Valencia left back Jordi Alba could make his debut, and Thiago, Javi Martinez, Pedro and Santi Cazorla could all start. “We are going to try to give everyone a chance,” Del Bosque said, presumably referring to his second-stringers, not the Scots. Corner kick: Pick your winners in the comments. Can Belgium beat the Germans? Can Bosnia and Herzegovina stun France? Can Scotland do the (seemingly) impossible in Spain? Denmark, France, Greece and Russia claimed automatic places in next year’s finals by winning their groups, and Sweden took another as the best runner-up. The other eight second-place finishers — Turkey, Ireland, Estonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Montenegro, Portugal and the Czech Republic — will be paired in home-and-home playoffs to complete the field of 16. Those matchups will be set Thursday, with the games on Nov. 12 and 15.  Goal, The New York Times soccer blog, will report on news and features from the world of soccer and around the Web.  Times editors and reporters will follow international tournaments and provide analysis of games. There will be interviews with players, coaches and notable soccer fans, as well as a weekly blog column by Red Bulls forward Jozy Altidore.  Readers can discuss Major League Soccer, foreign leagues and other issues with fellow soccer fans.
	 
			The Goal blog’s regular features, including live match analysis, player ratings from key matches, reader discussion, news and notes and more, can now be found on the soccer section front.Read more… 
			Crystal Palace won promotion to England’s Premier League on Monday. Now the club must retool under Manager Ian Holloway if it is to avoid relegation next season.Read more… 
			When congress opens, FIFA will be dealing with issues from President Sepp Blatter’s possible run for another term to accusations of vote-rigging among executive committee members.Read more… 
			Sacha Kljestan, who just won his second straight Belgian title with Anderlecht, could have a role to play for the United States in its exhibition against Belgium on Wednesday.Read more… 
			Alonso Hernandez, who plays in Mexico for Monterrey but has never represented the United States at any level, will get a chance to earn a place on the Under-20 World Cup team.Read more… Follow Advertisement