Advertisement  Red Sox 4, Twins 1 BOSTON, May 5 (AP) -- Frank Viola, the most valuable player of the 1987 World Series for Minnesota, won his first game against his former team as the Boston Red Sox beat the Twins, 4-1, tonight. Viola (3-2) scattered nine hits in seven and two-thirds innings. He struck out five and walked one in outpitching rookie Pat Mahomes (2-1). After losing his shutout bid in the eighth on a walk and two-out singles by Chuck Knoblauch and Kirby Puckett, Viola was replaced by Greg Harris. Jeff Reardon took over in the ninth to earn his sixth save this season and No. 333 of his career, 8 behind the career leader, Rollie Fingers. Rangers 5, Orioles 3 BALTIMORE (AP) -- Nolan Ryan isn't pitching like he did last year, and neither is Jeff Robinson. That's bad and good news for Texas. Texas overcame another skaky performance by Ryan and beat Baltimore, ending the Orioles' six-game winning streak. Dickie Thon drove in the tie-breaking run with a sixth-inning single and Robinson pitched five innings of two-hit relief to help the Rangers end Baltimore's nine-game winning streak at home. The Orioles are 10-2 at home. Advertisement Ryan, who gave up seven runs in two and one-third innings at Chicago in his last outing, allowed the first five Orioles to reach base. He gave up three runs, three hits, two walks and hit a batter before being replaced after a 62-minute rain delay after the second inning. Tigers 2, Angels 1 Advertisement DETROIT (AP) -- California Manager Buck Rodgers says Detroit's most important offensive weapon may be Tiger Stadium. "I've been coming to this park for a thousand years, and I've seen a lot of teams go south in a hurry," Rodgers said after the Tigers beat the Angels on Mickey Tettleton's leadoff home run in the ninth. "You see those orange seats that look like they are right on top of you, and you start trying to jerk the ball out."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Scott Aldred and John Doherty combined on a four-hitter for Detroit, with Doherty (1-0) pitching two perfect innings of relief. Indians 8, Royals 6 CLEVELAND (AP) -- Shortstop Mark Lewis drove in two runs and scored twice, atoning for his 10th error in the last seven games as Cleveland beat Kansas City. Jack Armstrong (1-3) got his first American League victory despite giving up five runs and six hits in six and two-thirds innings, including home runs by Wally Joyner and Rico Rossy. There was no repeat of the hostilities that erupted in the eighth inning Monday night, when the teams brawled after an exchange of bean balls and brushback pitches. White Sox 12, Brewers 2 CHICAGO (AP) -- Jack McDowell became baseball's first six-game winner and George Bell hit his eighth career grand slam to lead Chicago. McDowell (6-0) is off to the best start for the White Sox since Joel Horlen won his first eight games in 1967. McDowell pitched eight innings and gave up two runs on seven hits, striking out five and walked one. McDowell has a 2.87 e.r.a. after six starts. In 47 innings, he has struck out 29 and walked five. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 6, 1992, on Page B00018 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL: American League; Viola Stymies Twins.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »