Advertisement By MURRAY CHASS As usual, the voting by the fans and the selection of reserves by the managers and league presidents for the All-Star Game produced complaints about players who should be starting Tuesday or should at least be on the team. Cecil Fielder, Frank Thomas, Dave Winfield, Delino DeShields and Dave Fleming certainly have legitimate complaints about not being invited to San Diego. Here, however, are two selective teams that would evoke no complaints from anyone who was left off. They are the All-Dud teams of the National and American Leagues, teams of sub-.200 hitters (or close) and pitchers who have impressively poor won-lost records. The Mets and the Yankees each have placed two players on the teams. So have the Philadelphia Phillies, the Chicago Cubs and the St. Louis Cardinals. The Mets, who have the lowest team batting average in the major leagues, contribute their shortstop, Dick Schofield, and a catcher, Todd Hundley. From the Yankees, the American League team gets its second baseman, Pat Kelly, and its catcher, Matt Nokes. Advertisement Here are the complete teams (figures through Friday night's games): National League 1b -- A. Galarraga, Cardinals .189 2b -- Casey Candaele, Astros .182 ss -- Dick Schoefield, Mets .198 3b -- Jose Vizcaino, Cubs .204 lf -- Luis Salazar, Cubs .204 cf -- Ruben Amaro, Phillies .202 rf -- Brian Jordan, Cardinals .197 c -- Todd Hundley, Mets .191 p -- Kyle Abbott, Phillies 0-11 American League 1b -- Lee Stevens, Angels .191 2b -- Pat Kelley, Yankees .201 ss -- Tim Naehring, Red Sox 3b -- Rico Rossy, Royals .203 lf -- Grerh Vaugn, Brewers .208 cf -- Dan Pasqua, White Sox .199 rf -- Rob Deer, Tigers .208 c -- Matt Nokes Yankees .205 p -- Jack Armstrong, Indians 2-12 Advertisement These players did not earn their spots easily; they had spirited competition. Hundley, for example, had his own teammate, Charlie O'Brien, challenge him for the catching slot on the National League team. O'Brien is hitting .207, though he has not batted as often as his younger colleague. Hector Villanueva of the Cubs was an even more worthy competitor, and maybe he should've won the dubious honor, but he has struggled to a .162 average in only 99 times at bat compared with 173 for Hundley. Playing time counts here. The longer a player is bad, the more deserving he is of making the team. Galarraga is the first baseman on the National League team despite his lengthy stay on the disabled list. He has batted 71 fewer times than Jeff King of Pittsburgh, and King has a .187 average. But King recently was sent to the minor leagues, so he became ineligible. Schofield, whom the Angels traded to the Mets early in the season after he lost his job, prevailed over Rafael Belliard of Atlanta and Dale Sveum of Philadelphia. Schofield's status as an everyday player gave him the edge. Belliard is hitting .206 and Sveum .177. Stevens, a major contributor to the weakest hitting team in the American League, beat out Mo Vaughn of Boston at first base on that league's team. Vaughn's .197 season was interrupted by a visit to the minors for remedial work that hasn't helped. Had his Yankees' teammates remained healthy, Kelly would not have been around to make this team while the Yankees' other Kelly, Roberto, made the real All-Star team. Pat Kelly already had been sent to the minors when an injury necessitated his recall. Hubie Brooks didn't make the outfield with his .213 average because he had been the Angels' designated hitter before he wound up on the disabled list three weeks ago. Nokes won the catching spot because he has hit for a low average in more chances than his competitors, who include Geno Petralli (.190), Mike Fitzgerald (.189), Dave Nilsson (.200), Ron Karkovice (.210) and Chad Kreuter (.216). Armstrong won the pitching spot over Jim Abbott of California and Erik Hanson of Seattle, each of whom has incurred 11 losses. Armstrong earned the distinction primarily for his 5.40 earned run average. Abbott has a 2.97 e.r.a. and Hanson 3.99. Advertisement None of these players have provisions in their contracts calling for bonuses for making these All-Dud teams. What a Way to Fill In! In 1932, Johnny Frederick hit six pinch-hit home runs for the Brooklyn Dodgers and holds the major league record to this day. In only three days last week, Jeff Grotewold leaped halfway to the record by hitting three pinch-hit home runs for the Phillies. "When I hit the first one, it wasn't really happening to me," the rookie catcher-first baseman said. "My first hit was kind of outer body, and it was the same with the first home run. As I worked my way to the third one, you get a little more conscious of it. You realize what you're doing. But you don't expect three in a row so when it happens it's a little unbelievable. I've always been an everyday player so for me, pinch-hitting is a new role. I'm not really used to it."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Grotewold, who before his spree had not hit a home run and had only 5 hits in 23 at bats (.217) in 25 games, connected in San Francisco last Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday against Bud Black, Mike Jackson and--he had to ask a teammate for the name of the third pitcher--John Burkett. The first two home runs, in the seventh and sixth innings, each sliced the Phillies' deficit to one run, and the third, a two-run shot in the seventh, tied that game, but the Phillies lost all three games anyway. "It would be nicer if we could win a few," said the 26-year-old Grotewold, whose wife and father witnessed his flurry of home runs. "Unfortunately, losing really does take away from what I did. We're in a funk right now where we have to win some games." Grotewold did not become the 16th player to hit pinch-hit home runs in three successive games because he also batted in the first game of the double-header Tuesday and grounded out against Bryan Hickerson. The left-handed hitter hit 15 home runs in each of two minor league seasons, but he also hit six in each of two and five in another. "I might not hit one the rest of the year," he said. "I'm a doubles hitter, definitely not a home run hitter. I'm just trying to put the ball in play. If I go up there trying to hit a home run, I strike out." Advertisement And the next time he is told to hit for someone? "I won't go up there looking for my fourth home run," he said. Saving the Yankees With Steve Howe on the disqualified list and Steve Farr on the disabled list, John Habyan has been pressed into closing relief duty with the Yankees. Entering yesterday's game, Habyan had saved the Yankees' last five victories, joining Dennis Eckersley of Oakland and Bobby Thigpen of Chicago as the only American League relievers this season to do that for their teams. Randy Johnson of Seattle pitched one of the ugliest innings of the season at Yankee Stadium the other night, following a two-out error with two walks, a hit batter, a grand slam, a walk and a single. Earlier this season, Johnson walked 10 batters in four and a third innings, including four straight and a total of five in one inning. A's Stand for All-Stars The Athletics' regular outfielders, Rickey Henderson, Dave Henderson and Jose Canseco, have played in a total of 15 All-Star Games. As the Athletics reach the break this season, they have started 11 different players in the outfield besides those three: Willie Wilson, Harold Baines, Lance Blankenship, Jerry Browne, Dann Howitt, Scott Brosius, Mike Kingery, Scott Hemond, Randy Ready, Troy Neel and Eric Fox. About a month ago, after the Kansas City Royals had left their horrendous 1-16 start well behind, Manager Hal McRae cautiously explained that the team's objective was "to get to .500 by the All-Star break; then we'll reassess the situation and go from there." The Royals were about 10 games under .500 at the time. With only two games to play before the break, the Royals were 13 games under .500. A Good Time to Shush? George Steinbrenner sounds as if he wants to shoot himself in the foot again. Two years ago, the Yankees' owner chose a life sentence over the two-year suspension Commissioner Fay Vincent wanted to give him. Now, according to his media spokesman, he wants to delay returning to an active role with the team until Vincent is ousted so he doesn't have to accept the conditions the commissioner would impose. If he maintains that posture, Steinbrenner will add at least a whole year to his exile because Vincent can't be fired and his term runs through March 31, 1994. He is prepared to let the owner back a year before that. Talk about Dave Johnson as the Yankees' next general manager surfaced last week. Now that the Texas Rangers have fired Bobby Valentine, Valentine could become the Yankees' next manager. What an interesting combination Johnson and Valentine would make. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 12, 1992, on Page 8008004 of the National edition with the headline: NOTEBOOK; Don't Feel Left Out: Join the All-Dud Team.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »