Advertisement By CLIFTON BROWN and  Midway through the third quarter, it appeared the Knicks could have won tonight's game in their sleep. But 10 minutes later, they were fighting desperately to avoid a nightmare. The Magic cut the Knicks' 22-point third-quarter lead to 1 point with seven and a half minutes left as New York was held to one field goal in an 8-minute-27-second span. The Knicks temporarily lost their aggressiveness and their poise, and it nearly cost them the game. But the Knicks (40-25) will take their 99-86 victory at Orlando Arena just the same. It extended their lead to four and a half games in the Atlantic Division with 17 to play. "We broke down and let them get back in it," said Knicks guard John Starks. "We're not happy at all with our play. This was a perfect example of where we broke down on our focus for the whole game, but we did enough to pull it out." Character Test Advertisement The Knicks won because Patrick Ewing (25 points, 10 rebounds, 4 blocks) and Mark Jackson (18 points, 8 assists) provided leadership during the final minutes. They won because the Magic (15-51) have trouble finishing games. And the Knicks won because they did not want the embarrassment of losing. Advertisement "Our character was tested and we closed the game out," Jackson said. "Games like this make or break you. It's very easy to hold your head down when they go on a tear like that, but when I got back in the game, I just wanted to be a leader." Jackson was a leader, and the Knicks needed one. With New York leading by 72-50 with five minutes left in the third quarter, Orlando went on a 27-6 run to close to 78-77 with 7:48 left. Sam Vincent (14 points) and Sean Higgins (12 points) led the comeback, making shots from everywhere. Offense Crumbles Meanwhile the Knicks could not make shots from anywhere. Their offense fell apart with Greg Anthony and Starks unable to generate points in the backcourt, and Ewing unable to free himself from Mark Acres inside. "Mark Acres did an outstanding job of denying me the ball, fronting me, and keeping the ball out of my hands," Ewing said. "I got mad at myself because one time Sam Vincent drove and he put the ball in front of my face and I didn't block it. I told myself that I wouldn't let that happen again."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. He didn't. New York closed the game with a 21-9 run. Ewing started an 11-0 run that sealed the win, increasing the Knicks' lead from 80-77 to 91-77 with 2:46 left. Knicks coach Pat Riley could finally breathe a sigh of relief. "It went fast, but we didn't let it totally slip away," Riley said. "We had to fight for our lives, but we gathered ourselves. "In the N. B. A. holding a 29-point lead all the way is pretty hard. Letting them come all the way back maybe is inexcusable, but we got the win. I don't think anybody believes me, but I never felt like we were going to lose it." Riley is right. Most people probably don't believe him. But an ugly victory was better than no victory at all. After waiting more than a week, New York finally reached the 40-victory mark. Advertisement "You've got to love it," Jackson said. "I don't love the fact that we got ourselves in that position, but I love the fact that we held on to win. At this time of the year, every win is important. That's all that counts." REBOUNDS The Orlando Magic announced the three-year contract extensions Tuesday of both General Manager PAT WILLIAMS and Coach MATT GUOKAS. BOB VANDER WEIDE was also named vice president of basketball operations, while assistant Coach JOHN GABRIEL was promoted to director of player personnel. In two and a half seasons, Guokas has compiled a 64-166 record, and the injury-riddled Magic are 15-51 this season. "I'm looking forward to the opportunity and the challenge that lies ahead for the Magic organization," Guokas said. "It is going to take time for this team to learn, grow, and improve with all of our young players. I'm thankful for the opportunity to be a part of this club's future." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 18, 1992, on Page B00010 of the National edition with the headline: PRO BASKETBALL; Knick Alarm Clock Sounds Just in Time.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »