Advertisement By TIMOTHY W. SMITH With less than a week to go before an antitrust trial pitting the National Football League against Jets running back Freeman McNeil and seven other players is scheduled to start in Minneapolis, both sides appear to have adopted a see-you-in-court attitude. Jim Quinn, a lawyer with the New York firm of Weil Gotshal & Manges, represents McNeil and the seven other players, who through a suit originally filed in July 1990 are seeking unrestricted free agency and a total of $3 million in damages. Quinn said he's not going to offer any more counterproposals for a settlement. "We're packing up to go to Minneapolis," Quinn said last week. "I'm not particularly optimistic that it will be settled before it reaches trial." 'We're Not Close' Harold Henderson, N.F.L. vice president of labor relations, said over the weekend: "We're not close. We're not even on the threshold. We talked to them informally two weeks ago, haven't heard from them recently and I don't think they want to listen to anything else we have to offer." Advertisement The N.F.L. Management Council's executive committee met in Chicago yesterday to discuss trial preparation. Advertisement There is still the possibility for a courthouse-steps settlement before Monday, when the trial is scheduled to start in United States District Court. Quinn said that while he was concentrating on preparing for the Minneapolis court date, he would remain accessible to the N.F.L. if it wishes to bring forth new proposals. The eight players in the McNeil suit are seeking the $3 million in damages because they maintain that under the N.F.L.'s policies governing player movement, they have been unfairly restrained from offering their services to highest-bidding teams. The suit, which is being paid for by the Players Association, the players' union, arose from the N.F.L.'s Plan B free agency, originated in 1990. At the time the suit was filed, all eight players were "protected" by their teams and not allowed to change teams as Plan B free agents. No Labor Peace The suit is being played out against a backdrop of general labor disharmony. No collective bargaining agreement has existed between N.F.L. players and the league since 1982. In 1987, the players went on strike during negotiations over a new pact. Although the strike ended, negotiations were broken off.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In an effort to settle this lawsuit, the N.F.L. has offered free agency for players who have put in five years, with right of first refusal on the part of original teams, and unrestricted free agency after six years. These free-agency offers were tied to a salary cap, with players receiving between 56 and 60 percent of a team's gross revenue, and a rookie wage scale with graduated salaries and bonuses based upon the round in which a player is drafted. Quinn would not comment specifically on these offers, but he did say that the six-year figure, or even five years, for unrestricted free agency was too long. Some players are concerned about the form that a salary cap would take, because there is a question about what constitutes a team's gross revenue. Is it shared revenue, like the league's television contracts and N.F.L. Properties, the league's merchandising arm? Does it include stadium gate receipts, and profits from luxury boxes and concessions? Both sides agree that a settlement of the antitrust lawsuit would be in the best interest of all parties, because it would settle the issue of free agency, which would likely lead to a collective bargaining agreement and labor peace at long last for the N.F.L. Advertisement But with no settlement in sight, both sides said they were prepared for what could be a six-week trial. Dangers of Free Agency In court, the N.F.L. is expected to try to prove that unrestricted free agency, at least the kind the eight players in the suit are seeking, would irreparably damage the competitive balance of the N.F.L. and lead to the league's demise. The N.F.L.'s case will be presented by Frank Rothman of the law firm Skadden Arps Slate Meagher Flom of Los Angeles. He handled the league's antitrust case against the United States Football League in New York in 1986. Although the jury found the N.F.L. guilty of antitrust violations, it awarded the U.S.F.L. only $1 in damages, because Rothman convincingly argued that the U.S.F.L. had inflicted damage upon itself. Quinn believes the U.S.F.L. example is irrelevant. "The damages are going to be a major battlefield," he said about his suit. "But we're confident that we can show these guys were hurt significantly." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 9, 1992, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: FOOTBALL; It's Players vs. Owners Over Plan B.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »