Advertisement By JOE SEXTON There was, in the end, enough offense for the Mets to permit them to smile through their embarrassment. There were, after nine alternately exhilarating and excruciating innings, enough runs to outlast the Phillies. And so while the night's indelible images might have been of further failures, the scoreboard's lights were what the Mets chose to focus on: Mets 8, Phillies 5. "We needed it badly," said Manager Jeff Torborg. "We needed to get some success under our belts." In the clubhouse afterward, the Mets, their chests not exactly puffed up in confidence, breathed relief. The season-opening slide at home had been halted at four losses, and the damage to their preseason hype had been momentarily limited. Felt It Coming "Everybody felt it was time to win," said Dave Gallagher, whose double in the seventh scored the decisive runs for New York. "Everybody had felt it days ago." Advertisement And everybody in the dugout felt it might be another couple of days before a victory after the events of the top of the seventh. The Mets, who had led by 5-1 after three innings, held a 5-3 edge as reliever Paul Gibson took the mound. He was relieving Anthony Young, who had been smacked around for 11 hits and experienced tightness in his right shoulder. Advertisement Mickey Morandini promptly beat out an infield single as Gibson flailed unsuccessfully at a grounder up the first-base line. One out later, John Kruk singled and Gibson joined Young. On came Jeff Innis and thus began the slapstick. Innis's first two pitches were balls and his third hit Mariano Duncan. The bases were loaded and Innis's right hand was empty of ability. His next pitch hit Wes Chamberlain to force in a run and get the Phillies within 5-4. All Over the Place "I couldn't get the feel of the baseball," said Innis. "I was on one side of the plate and then the other." Innis's 3-2 pitch to Darren Daulton wasn't anywhere near either side of the plate, and the walk sent the tying run across the plate. "I have no idea what happened to Innis," said Torborg. "There was a bit of disbelief on my part." Torborg's sanity was saved and Innis's possible infamy was avoided when the right-hander got Kim Batiste to ground into a double play to end the inning.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "I didn't do the job," said Innis. "It's happened before, it'll happen again. Hopefully, not in the near future." What happened in the bottom of the inning allowed Innis the smallest of smiles. The Mets, whose muffled but effective explosion for four runs in the first inning had set the offensive tone for the night, jumped on Cliff Brantley for three runs in the seventh to seal the victory. Willie Randolph, promoted to the leadoff spot in a reshuffling of the lineup, doubled to start the inning and was sacrificed to third. Bonilla was walked intentionally and Gallagher, on for the injured Howard Johnson, stood in against Brantley. Keeping Covered Advertisement "Once it got to 2-2, I couldn't afford to look for any pitch," said Gallagher. "All I'm trying to do is cover myself for any pitch." Gallagher got a fastball inside and one swing later, the baseball was in the corner in left and two runs were across the plate. Another swing, this one Eddie Murray's long stroke through the strike zone, sent a double to right for the final run. "Maybe now we can get going," said Gallagher. It could be tough, though, because the Mets (3-6) could be further encumbered by injury and fabulously suspect pitching. Johnson left the game in the sixth with a strain of his right Achilles' tendon. He is listed as day-to-day. And Young, the starter who had pitched splendidly last week, was far less sharp last night and thus in plenty of company on a staff that has been badly roughed up. "We won," said Innis. "And so I won't sit here and weep." That, then, is the closest thing to a rallying cry the Mets can muster. INSIDE PITCH WILLIE RANDOLPH didn't have to pull over on the side of the road to collect himself, but he was shaken a bit all the same. The car radio had just informed him he would be in the leadoff spot against the Phillies at Shea. "It took me by surprise," said Randolph, the second baseman who has hit in the second spot all spring. "I didn't know the manager had plans to change the lineup." Randolph found out by listening to the manager's pre-game radio show. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 15, 1992, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; It Wasn't Easy, but Mets Settle Down at Home.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »