Advertisement By WILLIAM C. RHODEN HOW IT'S DONE: There are two Olympic styles of wrestling: freestyle and Greco-Roman. The United States has been strongest in freestyle competition, which permits nearly any hold, trip or throw. In Greco-Roman, the wrestler may not seize the opponent below the hips or use his legs to clutch an opponent. The same basic rules and scoring are used in both forms of competition. In each, wrestlers compete on a 9-meter circular competition area, which is set on a raised platform. A bout consists of one five-minute period. Each bout begins with the wrestlers being called to the center of the mat, where they are checked by the referee -- one of his jobs is to make sure the wrestlers' fingernails are cut short. If a wrestler earns 15 or more points than his opponent at any time, the bout is stopped for technical superiority. HOW TO WATCH: The primary object in both freestyle and Greco-Roman wrestling is to score a pin by holding an opponent's shoulder blades to the mat for a half a second. This automatically ends the match. If the wrestlers cannot effect a pin, the bout must be won by accumulating points. Points are scored in three ways. First, by takedown -- when a wrestler takes his opponent to the mat. A takedown is worth 1 point but may be worth more if the opponent is brought down on his back. For example, a grand amplitude takedown, in which an opponent goes through the air to land on his back, is worth 5 points. The most popular takedown methods in freestyle are single- and double-leg takedowns; the most popular holds are bodylocks and headlocks. A second method of scoring points is turning an opponent's shoulders to the mat. This is called exposure. Two points are scored when the back area breaks a 90-degree angle. The third method, a reversal, is scored when the wrestler on the bottom completely reverses positions and gains control. A wrestler may also lose by passivity disqualification. When a wrestler is not aggressive or does not work to score points, the officials may penalize the wrestler with a caution. A wrestler automatically loses after three cautions against him. In Greco-Roman, the most popular takedowns are arm throws, arm drags, slide-bys and snapdowns. WHO TO WATCH: In the past, wrestlers from the United States and the U.S.S.R. have excelled in freestyle. This year American medal favorites include John Smith, the only American to win five world championships, including a gold medal in 1988 in the  136.5-pound division, Zeke Jones at 114.5 pounds and Kenny Jackson at 180.5 pounds. The Unified Team is led by Arsen Fadzaez, the six-time world champion at 149.5 pounds, and Makharbek Khavartsev, also a six-time world champion, at 198 pounds. In Greco-Roman, heavyweight Aleksandr Karelin of the Unifed Team, a 6-foot-4-inch, 264-pound force, dwarfs the competition at 286 pounds. Mark Fuller (105.5 pounds) is the only American to earn a spot on four Olympic wrestling teams (1980, 1984, 1988, 1992). Fuller is looking for his first medal. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 19, 1992, on Page A8 of the National edition with the headline: BARCELONA - A VIEWERS GUIDE: The Sports; Wrestling.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »