Advertisement By CLIFTON BROWN and  Trailing by one game after three games of a playoff series does not scare Buck Williams. His life has been a series unto itself, a series of obstacles that the Portland Trail Blazers' power forward has managed to overcome. Williams is one of many pivotal figures in the Portland-Chicago Bulls National Basketball Association four-of-seven-game championship series, which resumes with Game 4 here Wednesday night. The series will not be determined strictly by X's and O's, for it is also a test of wills, with each player and both teams reacting to the pressure in different ways. Williams vowed that the Trail Blazers would play with more force and with more aggressiveness Wednesday night. That is how Williams responds to adversity -- with strength. That quality is part of what makes Williams, an 11-year N.B.A. veteran, one of Portland's emotional leaders and one of the league's best rebounders. 'A Different Game' "Tomorrow night is going to be a different game, I guarantee you that," Williams said today. "A lot of things are going to change in the way we played them defensively, and in the way we kept settling for outside jump shots. Advertisement "I've had a burning desire in my heart for years, to win a championship. I feel this is the year for our basketball team. Until Chicago wins that final game, I'm very optimistic we're going to win. I haven't even given much thought to not winning." Advertisement Winning a championship would be a happy conclusion to a difficult season for Williams. He was deeply affected by the death of his mother, Betty, in December, although it never showed in Williams's play. Williams is the youngest of six children, and he and his mother enjoyed a special closeness. His mother used to carry Buck on her back when he was an infant, while she spent long hours working in the cotton and tobacco fields of rural North Carolina. His father, Moses Sr., who still lives in North Carolina, toiled at many jobs to make ends meet. After Williams finished playing at the University of Maryland and signed his first professional contract, he bought a new house for his parents, furnished it and took care of his mother's financial needs so that she would never have to work again. But Williams never forgot the work ethic his parents instilled in him. "I watched them, waking up at six in the morning, never being late, never taking a day off," Williams said. "Wanting to better my family situation was a motivating factor for me. It kept driving me to succeed. And my mother was right at the center of that.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "A lot of African-Americans are very hesitant to talk about the struggle. They're almost embarrassed to talk about being poor. But talking about the struggle gives you strength, it gives you character. Sometimes we want to forget our heritage, which infuriates me because it's rich. You can build off of it. You can use it to get you through adversity. That's the way I use it." Now Williams will try to use that inner strength to help Portland win the series. He averaged 9.3 points and 8.3 rebounds in the first three games -- solid numbers, but Williams feels he can do more. Horace Grant, Chicago's power forward, has had a greater impact on the series and Williams is determined to change that. After spending most of his first eight seasons in the N.B.A. with poor Nets' teams, he knows how precious this opportunity is. The Nets failed to make the playoffs during Williams's last three seasons in New Jersey. Williams, who is 32 years old, wants to be a general manager in the league after he retires. Lofty Goals Advertisement "I'll be highly disappointed if I don't go into management," said Williams. "If not here in Portland, somewhere else. With all of these years in basketball, and all of these years of being asked my opinion on draft picks and different players that teams wanted to trade for, I have to have a certain amount of insight into management and trades." For now, Williams is concentrating on winning the series. "As long as I play hard and unselfishly and do what I can to make our team better, I can live with that," Williams said. "But I may write a book one day. And I'd hate to write the final chapter without a championship." REBOUNDS For the second consecutive year and the fourth time in the last five years, MICHAEL JORDAN was voted the N.B.A. player of the year by his peers, according to balloting sponsored by The Sporting News. The Bulls' star received 109 votes to 13 for second-place CLYDE DREXLER of Portland. Rookie-of-the-year honors went to LARRY JOHNSON of the Charlotte Hornets. PHIL JACKSON of Chicago was voted coach of the year, and WAYNE EMBRY, the general manager and vice president of the Cleveland Cavaliers, was named executive of the year. Joining Jordan on The Sporting News all-star team were KARL MALONE of Utah, PATRICK EWING of the Knicks, SCOTTIE PIPPEN of Chicago and TIM HARDAWAY of Golden State. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 10, 1992, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: BASKETBALL; Williams Says the Blazers Need to Be More Physical.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »