Advertisement  HORSE RACING Missy's Mirage Wins Again  When the Shuvee Stakes for premier fillies was run at Belmont Park three weeks ago, Missy's Mirage outran Harbour Club and Versailles Treaty at a mile and one-sixteenth in a photo finish. For an encore yesterday, the same fillies competed in the $200,000 Hempstead Handicap and ran one-sixteenth of a mile more in rain and mud, and the order of finish was identical: Missy's Mirage, this time by three lengths over Harbour Club, who had a neck on Versailles Treaty. And the winner knocked three-fifths of a second off the stakes record. It was the third straight time that Missy's Mirage had beaten Versailles Treaty, and she did it by leading from start to finish on a sloppy track. The winner ran three-quarters of a mile in 1:084/5 , the mile in 1:333/5 and the mile and one-sixteenth in 1:47 flat, breaking the record for the race set in 1978 by Dottie's Doll and matched in 1988 by Personal Ensign. She paid $7.60 for $2 to win and earned $120,000. Missy's Mirage, a 4-year-old filly owned by the Middletown Stables and trained by Allen Jerkens, was ridden by Eddie Maple as she won for the fourth time in five starts this year. Versailles Treaty, owned by Cynthia Phipps and trained by Shug McGaughey, has now lost five straight close races. GOLF Glasson Takes Kemper by a Shot  Bill Glasson, whose nine-year career has been marred by knee and back injuries, shot a bogey-free 68 to finish with an eight-under-par 276 after four trips over the TPC at Avenel course in Potomac, Md., to win the Kemper Open. He finished one shot better than John Daly, Ken Green, Mike Springer and Howard Twitty. Glasson won $198,000 with his fifth victory on the tour. (AP) Mucha Gets 2d Career Victory: It was a sweet homecoming for the former Michigan State golfer, Barb Mucha, yesterday. Mucha, fighting off a challenge by Dottie Mochrie, earned the second victory of her six-year L.P.G.A. career by capturing the Oldsmobile Classic in East Lansing, Mich., by one shot. Mochrie, who is now the tour's leading money-winner this year, closed with a five-under 67, but Mucha's 71 was enough to win with a 12-under 276 at Walnut Hills Golf and Country Club. (AP) Changed Fortune for O'Connor: Twelve days after surviving a helicopter crash, Ireland's Christy O'Connor Jr. finished with three birdies yesterday and then won a playoff with Zimbabwe's Tony Johnstone at the British Masters in Woburn. (AP) AUTO RACING  No Gas, but Victory for Gant  Harry Gant, Nascar's ageless wonder, crossed the finish line out of gas but won by nearly a full lap in yesterday's Budweiser 500 at Dover Downs International Speedway in Dover, Del. The 52-year-old Gant, who already was the oldest winner in any Winston Cup race, captured the 17th victory of his career and his first this season. Dale Earnhardt, coming off a victory a week earlier at Charlotte, ended up second. (AP) 4th Straight for Senna: Ayrton Senna won his fourth consecutive Monaco Grand Prix yesterday, ending Nigel Mansell's season-opening winning streak at five races. (AP) COLLEGE WORLD SERIES Miami Tops Fullerton State  A two-run error by Fullerton State shortstop Nate Rodriguez keyed a three-run seventh inning that carried top-ranked Miami to a 4-3 victory over the fifth-ranked Titans in the second round of the College World Series at Omaha last night. Fullerton State (43-16) fell into a losers' bracket game tomorrow against Florida State (49-20). The winner of that game would face Miami on Wednesday. Florida State stayed alive on Sunday by eliminating California, 5-4. (AP) PRO FOOTBALL  Sacramento Advances to World Bowl  Cary Blanchard kicked a 46-yard field goal with 3:54 left to give the Sacramento Surge a 17-15 home-field victory over the Barcelona Dragons in a World League semifinal playoff game. During the Dragons' final possession, quarterback Scott Erney hit Thomas Wood for an apparent 60-yard touchdown but the play was called back for illegal motion on receiver Demetrious Davis. The Surge (9-2) will play the Orlando Thunder on Saturday in the second World Bowl in Montreal. The Thunder defeated Birmingham on Saturday night in the league's other playoff game. (AP) We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 1, 1992, on Page C00008 of the National edition with the headline: RESULTS PLUS.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »