Advertisement By GERALD ESKENAZI and  Petra Kronberger, still saddened by her Austrian teammate's training accident over this same slope, began her downhill run at a possible five gold medals in skiing today. She captured the first day of the women's combined on a course that also continued to send Americans crashing into the life-saving nets and did little to answer questions about the spate of accidents on the slopes in these Games. Kronberger was barely half a second faster than Krista Schmidinger of Lee, Mass., whose favorite part of the difficult downhill course is the two jumps, one of which sent her teammate, Kristin Krone, tumbling today. In Tuesday's practice run, the American combined champion, Wendy Fisher, broke her thumb and sprained both knees, coming off a jump. Also at Tuesday's practice, Austria's top women's combined ski racer, Sabine Ginther, fell, broke a bone in her back and was sent home. Sadness Prevails Advertisement "All of us on the team were very sad Tuesday night," Kronberger said. "Our coach tried to keep our spirits up. It was hard for me to concentrate today. It's not easy. You think about the injury. But in my years of skiing, I have seen many bad things, and I am accustomed to it." Advertisement It goes with the territory of skiing, downhill in particular. This course is designed by Bernhard Russi, the 1972 Olympic downhill gold medalist who also designed the men's downhill at Val d'Isere. The men's course has been criticized for being overly technical, with pronounced twists that invite a skier to wipe out if unable to turn on a dime. Several men did in the downhill on Sunday and the Alpine combined, although typical of a twisting and thus slower course, none was badly hurt. But the criticism directed at this course before the Games was the opposite: that it was perhaps too straight, fast and full-throttle. In fact, Russi had to get the International Ski Federation to bend its rules on the amount of vertical drop allowed for a women's course so he could make full use of the Roc de Fer (Iron Face) mountain that plunges 2,080 feet in the space of a mile and three-quarters. The question being asked here today was: Is this a dangerous course? "The conditions are confusing," Krone said. "You'd think that if you have soft snow on the top, the course is slower. But it gets packed near the jumps." Regine Cavagnoud of France, who finished far back, used the word "dangerous" in describing the second jump. "You are going too fast," she said. One skier, Vreni Schneider of Switzerland, was a casualty of the course before the racing even began. She decided Tuesday that she wasn't comfortable with the course and announced she would not compete in the combined, sticking to the slalom and giant slalom. The day was beautiful. Those who remained upright (three fell) at the finish will return on Thursday to ski two different slalom courses. The combined winner of all three events gets the medal. Advertisement The 22-year-old Kronberger is Austria's most popular female skier. She has been voted the country's top female athlete the last two years in a poll of journalists. And her income of $300,000 a year from endorsements reflects her wide-ranging appeal.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Here, she is a gold-medal possibility in the combined, the downhill and the super giant slalom, with perhaps a shot at the other two skiing events: the slalom and giant slalom. But her trainer is considering withdrawing her from the giant slalom to avoid the risk of tiring and injury.  Combined a Challenge Schmidinger, whose father is from Austria, admits that the downhill is the stronger of her combined events. So despite today's brilliant run, in which she finished ahead of several of the world's best downhill racers, she is unlikely to win a medal in the combined. It indicates, though, that she is a candidate for a medal in the downhill against many of these same skiers on Saturday. "I was ready to explode coming out," she said of today's effort. "But I wasn't concerned about the jumps, even though that's where the other girls crashed. Jumps are my favorite part, so I just went about my business." Still, she nearly tumbled -- twice. Sailing Through Air Coming off the hardest jump, she soared 140 feet, instead of the preferred distance of about 60. Sailing through the air actually takes longer than skiing on the snow. And then, late in the race, she hit the fence, she said, "a little bit." Those two incidents might have spelled the split-second difference between first and second. The energy-absorbing orange netting is particularly valuable at what course designers euphemistically call "spill zones" -- the bottom of a jump, or at the end of a steep curve. That, indeed, was where Krone had her spill today, at the jump in the first half of the course. "I was in the air, thinking I was going the wrong way, and I couldn't do anything about it," she said. Angry After the Crash Krone's crash was, simply, spectacular. She was out of control as she landed, one ski tilted toward the sky. She went head-first into the netting, as if propelled there in one of those circus acts featuring a woman shot out of a cannon. Advertisement "I knew the netting was there," she said later. "I wasn't worried." But at the time she was angry. She got up quickly and took a clump of snow out of her helmet and flung it to the ground. Later, she said, her left hand hurt. "It feels loose inside." It was, in fact, diagnosed as being broken. Her two-day event lasted one day. She may be able to compete Saturday, though. "I'll do anything to get a day off," she quipped. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 13, 1992, on Page B00021 of the National edition with the headline: ALBERTVILLE; After Day 1 of Women's Combined, Austrian Rises and Avoids the Tumble.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »