Advertisement 
Sports of The Times  By                     
 JULIET MACUR
 
JUNE 3, 2014
 BALTIMORE — When California Chrome finally made his way back to the stables at Pimlico Race Course after winning the Preakness Stakes more than two weeks ago, fans cheered and rushed toward him, their camera phones held high and clicking. One man in the scrum kept repeating: “Look at him, he knows he’s going to win the Triple Crown. He knows it. Just look.” A woman marveled at the horse’s shiny chestnut coat and big brown eyes and said: “Ooh, he’s so cute. What a good boy! He’s such a beautiful animal, isn’t he?” His co-owner Steve Coburn kissed him on his soft, quivering muzzle, then said in a near whisper: “Do you know just how special you are? All of these people have shown up to watch you run.” Many more people will show up this weekend. About 100,000 people at Belmont and legions more from their homes — possibly more than 10 million — will watch as California Chrome tries to become the 12th Triple Crown winner. Advertisement They probably will not be thinking about Eight Belles, the dark gray filly who broke two ankles after finishing second in the 2008 Kentucky Derby and had to be euthanized on the track. Or Barbaro, who broke a leg in the 2006 Preakness and was kept alive by the sheer might of the fans for nearly eight months before he, too, had to be euthanized. Or the 24 horses, on average, who as of 2012 were dying each week at tracks throughout the country, some thrown away like trash. Advertisement It’s a good guess that no one clutching a betting stub will be worried about the sport’s drug problems, which might have contributed to the fatal breakdowns that have made racing in this country a worldwide joke. But they should be. Because of lax drug-testing rules, horse racing is failing all the bettors in this country who think they have a fair chance of winning, just as it is failing the horses who love to run fast but are often pumped with drugs to do so. So, remember this Saturday, as the stampede of thoroughbreds makes the final turn for home: If California Chrome wins, and even if he doesn’t, you shouldn’t necessarily believe what you see. “I’ve been told that it’s the wild, wild West,” Travis Tygart, the chief executive of the United States Anti-Doping Agency, said of horse racing. “It’s 1,000 times worse than anything we’ve seen because people in the sport can go out and bet on themselves. Our experience has shown that it’s impossible for anyone to both promote a sport and attempt to police the drug issue at the same time. There’s a massive conflict of interest.” Usada took over Olympic drug testing in this country after doping scandals in the 1990s involving American athletes cast suspicion around the globe. Other countries wondered how the United States Olympic Committee could oversee the testing of its own athletes when it had a vested interest in the success of those athletes. And those other countries were right; it couldn’t. Horse racing is at the same awkward point, with other nations, which have strict rules against race-day medication, looking at ours as having drug-riddled horses. People and organizations inside the sport are fighting about how to run an antidoping program — which would regulate illegal and legal drugs — when they have a vested interest in the sport and in race outcomes. Some even deny that the sport has a drug problem. Mike Hopkins of the Maryland Racing Commission said at the Preakness that Maryland’s drug testing program was adequate, and that he didn’t believe there were cheaters in the sport’s top tier. Advertisement “I just don’t think anyone at this level is taking that risk,” he said. “I think even the very small number of horses who test positive were mistakes by the trainers. Nobody is doing this on purpose.” 
California Chrome attempted to become the 12th horse to win the Triple Crown when he raced in the Belmont Stakes on Saturday, June 7. The latest news and commentary on horse racing’s greatest quest. 
 Phil Hanrahan, chief executive of the National Horsemen’s Benevolent and Protective Association, testified to Congress last year that the sport was clean and pointed to the relatively few positive tests, state to state. It’s foolish, though, to think that horse racing — a dying sport on which billions are wagered every year and which features silent, compliant athletes — is clean when sports with much less at stake are not. If it was not a problem, why was Rick Dutrow, the trainer of the 2008 Derby and Preakness winner Big Brown, barred for 10 years after multiple drug violations? Why has Steve Asmussen, the second-winningest trainer in the United States, had multiple drug violations and served a six-month suspension? In this country, though, he is still going strong because many states have toothless penalties, like small fines or loss of purses. That’s the laughable cost of doing business in today’s sport of kings.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Horse racing, more than any other sport, needs an independent antidoping agency like Usada, a nongovernmental, nonprofit organization, because its athletes can’t refuse drugs or tell anyone about the painkillers masking the soreness of their fragile ankles. They can’t complain when they are injected with cobra venom to dull their pain, or when they’re given Thyro-L, a synthetic hormone recently blamed in multiple horses’ deaths. Last year, Bob Baffert, a Hall of Fame trainer, told California investigators he had been giving every horse in his barn that thyroid drug without checking to see if any of them had thyroid problems. He quit only after a seventh horse of his died in a 16-month period. Bringing in Usada, however, is easier said than done. The 38 states with horse racing haven’t agreed to any uniform rules, much less to hiring Usada, because there are too many nuances and competing interests. They fail to realize that investing in Usada can save their sport. The antidoping agency could mandate out-of-competition testing, the most effective way to catch cheaters. It could also start testing all urine and blood samples at laboratories that follow standards as rigorous as those standards used to test samples provided by Olympic athletes. That would be a huge improvement: Two trainers told me that one current lab was known to combine urine from several horses to make testing cheaper. Advertisement Arthur B. Hancock III, whose grandfather founded Claiborne Farm, said Congress needed to intervene to help right a sport gone very wrong. A bill, the Horseracing Integrity and Safety Act, was introduced in May 2013 and called for Usada to take control of racing’s drug testing. But that bill has gone nowhere. Ever since, if the trend stayed the same, more than 1,200 horses would have died on the track in this country. “I’m really hoping that we can get Congress’s help because drugs have really hurt our sport,” Hancock said. “One trainer uses drugs, even the legal ones, and another feels like he has to do it because, ‘I’m not going to go into a fight with one hand tied behind my back.’ It’s affecting the breed. Now we have chemical horses. We owe it to these noble, beautiful animals to do something.” The Jockey Club, the most influential racing organization in the United States, is trying to do something, working with the state racing commissions to unify drug rules. But the going has been so slow that the club’s chairman, Ogden Mills Phipps, said the organization would put its weight behind the bill in Congress if no major advancements were made by August. “We’re looking into how much it would cost and who would help pay for it,” Phipps said. “But horse racing depends on the bettor, period. If you’ve lost the confidence of the bettor, you’ve lost everything. “We need tough drug rules, so we can have a level playing field.” To keep their sport afloat, the states that profit from racing should realize the necessity of working together and making concessions, if it means keeping horses and jockeys safe. But will they actually do it, and quickly, to spare lives? Don’t bet on it. Instead, they should put their money on Usada, which, literally, does not have a horse in the race. Email: juliet@nytimes.com  A version of this article appears in print on June 4, 2014, on Page B11 of the New York edition with the headline: Horse Racing Still Stumbling in Antidrug Push.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »