Advertisement By HARVEY ARATON The faces of the Lafayette High School basketball players were pressed against the window of the charter bus as it rolled down a steep hill behind a large building toward a field house and adjacent parking lot in the rear. "This is a high school?" Adam Belkin, the junior point guard, said, as the bus pulled up to the front entrance of Danbury High School, concluding a two-and-one-half-hour ride from the edge of Bensonhurst in Brooklyn to this distant Connecticut neighborhood of split-level homes and neat, expansive lawns. Inside the school, the Lafayette players were shown to a bright, clean locker room that was nearly half the size of their own gymnasium. Just the day before, back in Brooklyn, they had dressed silently, some of them in tears, in what wasn't much bigger than a walk-in closet. They had just lost, 66-64, in overtime on a shot at the buzzer at Grady High School, one of the best teams in Brooklyn. A Wrenching Season That crushing defeat, Lafayette's second in four Brooklyn Division I games, was the latest heartbreak for a team whose season has already been wrenching. The Frenchies of Coach Ira Levine have endured the summertime death of a former teammate in a gun accident, the shooting of its starting point guard, Dexter Wooten, the loss of a key big man to a school in upstate New York and the academic travails of several other players. Advertisement But all of what is part of the urban experience seemed far away late Saturday afternoon as the Lafayette varsity and junior varsity, appearing in tandem for the only time this season, marched into the visitor's locker room for games arranged by Levine as a Christmas vacation bonus. Schools such as Lincoln and Grady, Brooklyn powerhouses, are on the move this week to San Diego and Washington for holiday tournaments, but Lafayette wasn't enough of a preseason attraction to receive an expense-paid invitation. Advertisement Two years ago, when Levine scrapped together the money to take the team to a tournament in Birmingham, Ala., Hardin Desire was a sophomore forward playing ball out of Brooklyn for the first time, the only player from this season's team on that trip. "This is the farthest I've ever gone," senior Yohance Boyce said, sitting in the stands as the junior varsity warmed up. He could have been speaking for all his teammates, except Tony Rexha, a 6-foot-4-inch long-range shooter whose parents are Albanian and visit family every summer in the Macedonian town of Debar, just across the border with Albania. Rexha has played in summer leagues from Split in Croatia to Belgrade in Serbia, shaking his head in disbelief when the local contemporaries insist that the Croatian star Toni Kukoc is better than Michael Jordan. "If you think our gym is small, you should see what we play in over there," Rexha said. Another World Danbury is the other end of the high school spectrum, a brightly lighted, 900-seat gym that is sold out for every game and is about to be expanded by 1,500 seats. For the game against this unheralded team from Brooklyn, a fire marshal counted heads by the ticket office outside. Pizza, candy and soda were sold at a concession stand. One section of the bleachers was reserved for a raucous group of Danbury students who paint their faces and pride themselves on their game-long taunting of the opposition. A large number of families with small children helped pack the gym by the third quarter of the junior varsity game. A recording of the national anthem was played before the game. A basketball was raffled off at the half and a platoon of Danbury police was dispatched for crowd control. "This is more people than we'll get all season," said Ted Lewis, Lafayette's junior varsity coach. His players, soundly trounced by Danbury, took seats in the section reserved for visiting fans behind the Lafayette varsity bench and whooped it up as the Frenchies impressed the crowd with a pre-game carnival of creative Brooklyn-style dunking. The junior varsity, seven players strong, represented the most road support Lafayette will get all season. When the announcement for the Grady game was made Friday afternoon over the school intercom, it was accompanied by the standard addendum: "This is a road game and no spectators from Lafayette will be allowed." Fans Stay at Home Advertisement This included Lafayette's cheerleaders. Keeping out all students from visiting schools is not a Public Schools Athletic League rule, but the policy of most city high schools, excluding those in Staten Island. "It started around the mid-1980's," said Lincoln Coach Bob Hartstein. "There wasn't one incident, but there was a tone that things could get out of control."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Unlike Danbury, city games are supervised only by school employees. "The schools don't know the kids coming in from the other schools," said Levine. "They worry the wrong kids will wind up in the building." Before each season, athletic directors exchange letters stating their policies with opposing schools. From Lafayette, Harvey Bergen's letter, dated Oct. 28, said, under the heading Ticket Sales: "No tickets will be sent to visiting schools. Only visiting team members, coaches and managers will be permitted to attend." "We play in a vacuum," said New Utrecht Coach Ron Vernon, who attended college in Louisiana, where he recalls high school football games drawing crowds of more than 5,000. "No one cares. It's just the players and the coaches." On the road in Brooklyn, even at schools a few stops away by train, support must come from within. Rally Falls Short At Grady on Friday afternoon, emotions ran high as Lafayette made its upset bid. Levine realized that if anyone was going to speak out in behalf of his team, he had to do it. The coach, incensed with one call near the end of the first half, hurled a chair into a wall. He got a technical foul for accusing the referee of treating the Grady star, Maurice Brown, as though he was Michael Jordan. Trailing by 11 points at the start of the fourth quarter, Lafayette rallied behind Rexha, Desire and Antonio Carrasquillo to lead by a point with 15 seconds left. Then Phil Washington and Sawandi Smalls, assigned by Levine to double-team Brown in the backcourt, collided, knocking each other down. Grady forced the overtime. And when it ended, while Grady's players and fans celebrated around them, the Lafayette players stumbled off the floor. Some claps for themselves, for coming so close. But there would be more games, more chances. Perhaps the missing link, the quick little point guard Wooten, would return after the holidays. The cast on his right arm, where the last of the three bullets he took in a street fight on Nov. 19 remains lodged, comes off next week. Advertisement If Levine's team is anything, it is resilient. The Frenchies, 7-5 over all, managed to put still another narrow defeat behind them, a 61-55 decision to Danbury, while the bus wheezed its way along Interstate 84 and out of Connecticut Saturday night. In the rear, music blared and junior varisty players accepted their playful slaps on the head. Near the front, Phil Washington whipped out his Scholastic Aptitude Test book and began reviewing his math. "Taking it Jan. 25," said Washington, a serious 6-1 senior who is struggling to earn his diploma and desperately wants to go to college to escape the Marlboro projects. Soon, with the assistant coach and team tutor, Kevin Meyers, conducting, an impromptu study group of a handful of players had convened. In the front seat, Levine was happy. "I think they enjoyed this," he said, as the bus wound its way through Brooklyn, back to Bensonhurst a few minutes after 10 o'clock. "Ah, civilization," one of the junior varsity players said, stepping down onto Benson Avenue. Down the street, on the elevated tracks, the B train rumbled by, the sweet sounds of home. THE SERIES SO FAR The first article in this series about Lafayette High School's basketball team appeared on Dec. 9. The team, enveloped in an urban soap opera that includes meager funding, empty stands and the lure of the city's mean streets, was dealt a cruel blow before the season when Dexter Wooten, its point guard and spiritual leader, was shot three times. His recovery and the team's resolve were highlighted. In the second article, on Dec. 11, the team celebrated a small victory, the return of three seniors who had been academically ineligible. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 25, 1991, on Page 1001043 of the National edition with the headline: BASKETBALL; From Bensonhurst to Connecticut and Back.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »