Advertisement By ROBIN FINN Struggle, struggle everywhere on the men's side, but not an upset seeded player in sight. There was a mean theme yesterday at the United States Open, where Ivan Lendl invoked the Fifth Amendment againsts persistent rumors that his game has gone geriatric, Boris Becker and Stefan Edberg crushed challenges from underdog countrymen, and in a match that transformed fond siblings to strangers, the Sanchez brothers of Spain were forced to take up arms against one another. Conditions at the Open were cool, gray, and gloomy, but if you happened to be named Ivan Lendl, the roast continued. First Jimmy Connors accused the new United States citizen of incorporating one of the more underhanded techniques of our national pastime, the bunt, into his tennis arsenal. That happened just after Lendl ended the 40-year-old birthday boy's Cinderella story and turned him into a pumpkin on Friday night. Yesterday, after a low-profile battle inside the confines of the shadowy Grandstand Court against a surly opponent wearing the hair, headband and grizzle of a rock n' roll roadie, Lendl again stood accused, winning but without sufficient vengeance. Advertisement This time the critique emanated from the lips of an upstart, 21-year-old Chuck Adams, after the seventh-seeded Lendl disposed of the 130th-ranked player, 2-6, 6-4, 6-3, 6-4, to move into the fourth round against Becker. Advertisement "I think Connors made a good point," said Adams, a California contemporary of fourth-seeded Michael Chang whose promise has remained unfulfilled. "He doesn't play like he used to. I'm baiting him with a lot of short balls that he could go for, and he just doesn't do it. He lets you back in the points." In the first set, Adams benefited from another slow start by Lendl, who had trouble timing his shots and reacted to dropping the set by decapitating the courtside chrysanthemums. When Lendl double-faulted at break point in the fifth game of the second set, Adams went up by 3-2. But Adams lost his break in the eighth game by sending a backhand wide at break point. Three double faults from Adams in the 10th game gave Lendl the set. The players seesawed through five more service breaks in the third. After warding off a break point in the ninth game, Lendl gained a two-sets-to-one edge when Adams rapped a forehand into the net. The veteran was the stronger player in the final set, but although Adams retreated on cue, he did not go quietly. "You know, he is chipping every backhand," said Adams, who didn't realize his opponent was employing the shot for strategic, not defensive, purposes. "It took him two sets before he hit through one backhand," he said. "In order for him to win this event, he's got to loosen up." Lendl, who considers loosening up an unnatural act, said the loser's post-match analysis actually made him "have to sort of chuckle when he says, 'Oh, he doesn't play the way he used to,' because I never played him before." And if his shotmaking was closer to a bunt than a blast, wondered Lendl: "Then why does Chuck duck when he is trying to hit that back? If it is such bad play, if you call it bunting, how come they didn't beat me?" And then the 32-year-old Lendl, who refused to comment on whether age has caused any erosion in his game, made a half-hearted accusation against the accusers who write off his quest for a fourth Open title. "They certainly aren't very gracious," he said, downplaying the notion that the loss of the opening set is any signal of vulnerability under the Grand Slam format. Advertisement "Three out of five, one set doesn't mean anything," Lendl said. "Why should I get rattled with one set?" Edberg, seeded second, and Chang never got rattled at all. Both won in straight sets, as did Edberg's next opponent, 15th-seeded Richard Krajicek. Edberg subdued his fellow Swede, Jonas Svensson, 6-4, 6-2, 6-2, Chang baselined his way past Arnaud Boetsch, 6-3, 6-3, 6-1, and Krajicek overwhelmed Mark Woodforde 6-1, 6-3, 6-2. No Victory but No Hard Feelings  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Becker's 6-1, 4-6, 7-6 (7-1), 6-3 victory left countryman Carl-Uwe Steeb, frustrated by an uncomplimentary line call, sputtering expletives that cost him a code violation as he surrendered his serve in the next-to-last game. Becker, as is his wont, served out the match with bravado, then lumbered to the net to make amends with Steeb, who seemed to hold no grudges about Becker's 6-1 dominance in their on-court rivalry. "I think he's going to reach the top of his game soon," said the gracious loser, who was also Becker's doormat last week at Long Island's Hamlet Cup. "He was hitting the ball harder than last week. Today I always had to expect that he is hitting a winner." In a long-winded family drama out on Court 16, the Sanchez brothers found themselves in a confrontation that needed five sets to resolve before 25th-ranked Emilio sent an overhead crashing past younger brother Javier at match point of the 3-hour-18-minute nailbiter and won, 7-5, 6-1, 6-7 (7-4), 7-6 (7-3), 6-4. The brothers looked shellshocked even before the first ball was struck, and their mother, Marisa, was so unnerved by the intensity of the match that she disappeared after the first set.  Brothers to the End But as the match wore on, the brothers grew more comfortable with their predicament: after all, they'd suffered through it seven times before with Emilio winning each time. When the 27-year-old Emilio bumped his head on the umpire's chair after lunging for a volley in the third-set tie breaker, 24-year-old Javier rushed to make sure he hadn't been injured. When the fourth-set failed to resolve anything except their durability, the brothers began to behave like assassins, pointing their racquets in each other's direction like guns after every new, interminable rally. In the end, history repeated itself. and 31st-ranked Javier bowed to his brother. They exchanged high-fives at netside, then went off, friends again, to revive their mother. Advertisement "It makes my life so diffcult," Emilio said about playing Javier. "In other times, it was like he was playing his older brother. Now he takes me like a normal player." On to the Quarterfinals Things were simpler on the women's side of the draw, where 13th-seeded Helena Sukova, Patricia Hy's follow-up victim to Jennifer Capriati, was the only casualty. Monica Seles, the defending champion, overpowered Gigi Fernandez, 6-1, 6-2, and Gabriela Sabatini, whose only Grand Slam title happened here in 1990, moved into the quarterfinals with ease by downing Sabine Appelmans, 6-1, 6-3. "I'm ready to have big matches," said Sabatini, who may get one from seventh-seeded Mary Joe Fernandez, the Olympic doubles gold medalist. Fernandez was a 6-0, 6-4 winner over 16th-seeded Mary Pierce, the newest addition to the Bollettieri tennis factory, last night in a match that was most remarkable for Pierce's abundance of unforced errors (35) and her extraordinary but too often unharnessed power. MATCH POINTS Seventeen-year-old MAGDALENA MALEEVA and 16-year-old CHANDA RUBIN, the youngest players remaining in the draw, will meet in the fourth round Monday, and if Rubin advances, she'll become the fifth-youngest quarterfinalist in the history of the Open era. Rubin, the junior Wimbledon champion, lost in the first-round of the three other Slams this year. Rubin knocked off Maleeva's older sister, 15th-seeded KATERINA, in the third round. . . . ANDRE AGASSI, riding a 10-match Grand Slam winning streak, has not yet dropped a set and has lost just 21 games, the fewest of any player, in nine sets played so far. That's two games less than last year's leader in that category, Open runner-up JIM COURIER, lost through three rounds. Courier never dropped a set until the 1991 final. Agassi, seeded eighth, faces Spain's Carlos Costa, seeded 10th, on Monday night. Costa had never played a United States Open match until this year. . . . The United States Tennis Association announced that TEL, the automatic line-calling system it's been blind-testing here on the stadium, grandstand and two outer courts, will be put into use during the remainder of the mixed doubles masters competition. The computer device, which relies on magnetic coils buried along the court lines that are activated by a metallic powder in the rubber core of specially designed balls, will be operated by the chair umpire. . . . Yesterday's five-set match between EMILIO and JAVIER SANCHEZ marked the first time since 1935 that two brothers have squared off in the Open. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 7, 1992, on Page 1001027 of the National edition with the headline: U.S. OPEN '92; Brother vs. Brother, Patriot vs. Patriot, Lendl vs. All at Open.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »