Advertisement By WILLIAM N. WALLACE New Hampshire defeated Northeastern, 4-2, yesterday to restore some order to tournament hockey after two of the nation's top teams, Boston University and Harvard, were eliminated on Saturday night. The victory for New Hampshire, which finished second in regular-season play and thus was seeded second, qualified the team for Hockey East's final-four tournament at Boston Garden on Thursday and Saturday. Boston University was upset by Boston College, 5-2, on the Terriers' home rink. The Eagles were seeded fifth to the Terriers' fourth, but their records were hardly comparable, B.U.'s 19-17-3 to B.C.'s 22-7-4. Maine, Hockey East's first-place team and ranked No. 1 in the nation, routed Merrimack, 10-0, last night at Orono, Me. The Black Bears will play Boston College, and Providence will meet New Hampshire on Thursday. The Shocking ECAC Advertisement In ECAC Hockey, both the first- and fourth-seeded teams, Harvard and Yale, were beaten. The Crimson lost at home in overtime, 4-3, to Rensselaer, a team that had finished 10th in the league standing, had lost twice to Harvard in the regular season by a total margin of 10 goals and had also dropped six playoff games and tied one against Harvard in the past five seasons. Advertisement Yale lost to Cornell, 4-1. Second-seeded St. Lawrence was an 8-3 winner over No. 6 Brown, and No. 3 Clarkson beat No. 7 Princeton, 6-3.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In the ECAC semifinals, Friday night at Boston Garden, Rensselaer will play St. Lawrence, and Clarkson will meet Cornell. New Hampshire joined Providence, a 7-0 victor over Massachusetts-Lowell on Friday, and Boston College in the Hockey East final four. Goalies Come Up Big Boston College jumped on top of Boston University early and never let up as Eagles goalie Scott LeGrand had 43 saves. Similarly, Rensselaer goaltender Neil Little was outstanding in the upset of Harvard, making 42 saves. Jeff Gabriel scored the winning goal at 8 minutes 9 seconds of sudden-death overtime. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 9, 1992, on Page C00004 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; Calm Makes Comeback In Colleges.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »