Advertisement By SANDRA HARWITT and  Nobody plays tennis tag better than Monica Seles. She rarely loses because it's rare that anyone can catch her. The 1992 Australian Open was no exception. Seles, the defending champion, took Mary Joe Fernandez's supposedly new aggressive game and pulverized it, taking a 6-2, 6-3 victory in a 1-hour-17-minute final. Seles has never lost a match at the Australian Open, and her career record in matches stands at 173-23. No Anxiety "I promised myself coming into this year, I wouldn't pressure myself to get the same results as last years," said the 18-year-old Seles. "It's a new year." Advertisement But even though she arrived with a neck injury, Seles is leaving with a trophy. Seles, a Yugoslav who lives primarily in Florida, has been in the finals of the last 19 tournaments she has entered and has won a lucky 13 of them. Her victory gave her a fifth Grand Slam crown. She has won the Austalian Open twice, the French Open twice and the United States Open once. Advertisement "I think when you're No. 1 and winning all the time, it's hard to change," the seventh-ranked Fernandez, a Miamian, said of the top-ranked woman's admission that she goes on court without a game plan and just hits. "I think it's a mistake. Steffi Graf had the same philosophy when she was winning and didn't improve. There's always someone new who will come along and beat you." Glimmers of Change Two days ago, the 20-year-old Fernandez charged the net to upset Gabriela Sabatini in the semifinals, impressing everyone and indicating that she had reached a different level of play. But Sabatini, who was seeded third, is clearly not Seles. It was the second time in three years that Fernandez had reached the Australian Open final. In 1990, she couldn't stop Graf from winning her third consecutive Australian Open title. Fernandez has only won two titles in her career, both in 1990.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Today, Fernandez could not disrupt Seles's overpowering game, which consists largely of consistently hitting winners from two steps inside the base line. Fernandez did win nine points at the net, but she needs to hit harder ground strokes and run Seles around more to beat her. The only time Fernandez beat Seles in their 10 matches was in the first, in Fielderstadt, Germany, in 1989. "She was playing very deep and taking the initiative," Fernandez said of the match today. "I was unlucky not to win the first four games. I had game points. It's a big difference to be down, 4-0, than being 2-all. You have to pick the right times to come in on her and not make too many errors." The American, who has been working under the tutelage of Harold Solomon, a former top-five player, wasn't strong enough to beat Seles. But she wasn't totally embarrassed. Hanging On Advertisement In the first set, Fernandez held game points in all but the sixth and eighth games, which she was serving. Seles looked tired in the first set, but held her serve in the key first and third games. By the second set, Fernandez was just hanging on. Seles pounded balls at the American, racing to a 4-0 lead before Fernandez recouped one break in the fifth game. Fernandez held her serve in the sixth and eighth games to push Seles into serving out the match in the final game. "You have to be focused," said Seles, who came to the interview room as if dressed for a garden party, in a floral dress and floppy Roaring Twenties pink hat. "You can't watch what happens around you. You have to be in the match. But after the match is finished, I try to be like anybody else." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 26, 1992, on Page 8008010 of the National edition with the headline: TENNIS; Seles Pounds Fernandez In Final.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »