Advertisement By MICHAEL MARTINEZ and  They grew up on the dusty streets of San Cristobal in the Dominican Republic, with no bats or gloves and sometimes with no shoes. The memories are not always fond, but they still come easily to the Perez brothers, Pascual and Melido, even though they seem so long ago and far away. They are here now, together for the first time as teammates in the major leagues, starting pitchers for the Yankees, brothers and friends. And competitors in some ways, too. But as close as they seem, they also remain opposites in style and demeanor. Their bond is their past. They were raised in a house so small that Pascual, the eldest of nine children, was sent to live with his grandparents. He fed the goats and chickens and milked the cows, but not before drawing a large glass for himself first. 'Big Time' Poor Poor? Melido Perez nods slowly and says, "Yeah, big time." But then he adds: "Sometimes I say to my mother now, 'Do you believe what you have, a house and a car?' We bought her those things. We take care of her now." Advertisement In the Yankee clubhouse, they are separated by a half-dozen lockers and by their personalities. Pascual is 34 years old, dresses occasionally in outlandish jumpsuits, adorns himself with enough gold jewelry to fill a bank vault and arrives at work each day in a black stretch limousine that he bought for $57,000. Melido, who is 26, wears sport shirts and designer jeans and a couple of thin gold chains around his neck. He drives a rental car. Advertisement Pascual is the clubhouse cutup, prancing around the room and engaging in a half dozen conversations at the same time. Melido is gentle, quiet and unassuming. "They're a good contrast," pitcher Steve Farr said. "Melido doesn't say two words. When you look at him, you're seeing the other side of what Pascual could be." The Same Hardships As children, Pascual and Melido suffered through the same hardships: a large family with not enough room or money to survive easily. Their father, Juan Gross, who is in the United States for the first time and staying with Pascual for the next six months, mowed lawns in the city. "They didn't have enough money to send me to school," Pascual said. "But my mom and dad, they worked hard. They educated us at home." Every morning, he was up at 5:30 -- hard to believe, considering his chronic tardiness to spring training -- to begin his chores. But the family scraped by. There were no such things as bats, balls and gloves. "How could we buy those things?" Melido said. "Sometimes we didn't have anything to eat. We had holes in our tennis shoes." "All the time, we played in the streets," Pascual  said. "No shoes, no shirts. And we worked." Separated by almost nine years, the two brothers never played baseball together. Pascual was more baby-sitter than teammate. Advertisement "I looked after him, held him in my arms like this," he said, cradling his arms close to his chest. "He cried a lot -- for nothing. Even at night. I had to hold him all the time." 'We Never Played Together' Then, asked about the joy he feels playing with his brother now, he said, "It's beautiful. Even at home, we never played together, not even catch." Pascual signed with the Pittsburgh Pirates in 1976, at age 18, and life changed for all of them in San Cristobal. They were no longer poor. The other four brothers pursued baseball as never before.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "As soon as Pascual signed, everything was easy for us," Melido recalled. "He took care of my brothers, my sisters, my mother and father. He gave me gloves and spikes. I wanted to be like him, a professional baseball player. When he signed, I started to play." Pascual remembers it as a time to finally begin providing for those he loved most. "I took care of everybody," he said. "I told my father to stop working. I gave them all the things they couldn't give me." He brought his father here, he said, for a vacation. But Juan Gross, who is 64, said that Pascual asked him to stay for several months, perhaps to help him endure what is a critical season in his career. After two years of shoulder injuries, Pascual is in the last year of a three-year contract and desperately hoping to prove he deserves another. "He wanted me to come," Gross, who does not speak English, told a reporter. "I didn't want to, but he insisted. I told him that if I come, he had to listen to what I say. He'll listen to me. He'll want to go out and I'll tell him no. There's work to do." The Yankees say they did not trade for Melido Perez so that he could provide a stabilizing effect on Pascual, but it could surely become a side benefit. They are also hoping that the younger, more disciplined Perez will push his brother. "I hope there's a little brotherly competition, where one pushes the other," said the pitching coach, Mark Connor. Advertisement Perhaps Melido might eventually improve his brother's sense of timing away from the mound. Perhaps not. Pascual arrived late this morning for a mandatory photo session. He was called into Manager Buck Showalter's office, and was lectured to but not fined. "I'm giving him the benefit of the doubt right now," said Showalter. "I'm going in with an open mind until he proves differently."  Differences in Pitching Styles Their differences extend to the pitching mound. "Melido throws a little harder and has a different kind of fastball," Connor said. "Pascual's fastball has movement away from left-handed hitters. Melido's comes over the top, like a riding fastball. Pascual's out-pitch is the slider. Melido's is the forkball. "They're different pitchers, different people with different personalities. Their styles are different in many ways." So different that when Pascual asked Melido to stay with him this season in New York, Melido balked. "I'm not going to do that," he said. "I've got a big family. I like to be in my own house, playing with my kids." But they will share their moments together, in the clubhouse and on the field. "We're together," Pascual said, smiling. "It's beautiful." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 5, 1992, on Page B00017 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; With Perez Brothers, Yankees Attract Opposites.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »