Advertisement 
Sports of The Times  By                     
 WILLIAM C. RHODEN
 
JUNE 10, 2014
 GREENBURGH, N.Y. — From the time I left home Tuesday morning and walked down Edgecombe Avenue in the Sugar Hill neighborhood of Harlem, Knicks fans up and down the block were torn between buzzing and fretting over the news that Derek Fisher would be the Knicks’ new coach. Will Fisher be the good shepherd to lead the Knicks to a championship? What do you think? Was this a good move? Later that morning, Fisher was introduced as the Knicks’ 26th head coach, the 17th since Red Holzman led the Knicks to their last N.B.A. championship more than 40 years ago. Fisher is the best choice by far if Phil Jackson wants to coach without coaching, mentor a former player and, if all goes exceedingly well, cement a legacy as a championship coach who became a championship executive with the franchise that drafted him. Advertisement On Tuesday we listened once again to hopeful plans for breaking the championship jinx. Jackson spoke glowingly about Fisher, with whom he won five N.B.A. championships in Los Angeles. Knicks General Manager Steve Mills, who got to see Fisher up close during contentious labor negotiations, lauded Fisher’s leadership skills as president of the players association. Advertisement Finally, Fisher addressed head-on what is perceived to be his greatest obstacle to success in New York: experience. “There’s been a lot of talk about my inexperience as a head coach,” he said. “And that is obviously factually true. I have not been a head coach in the N.B.A., or college or high school, but I am experienced. Basketball is a game that I am experienced in playing, understanding, leading in, guiding in, helping another group of people achieve the greatest gift in the world as a professional athlete, and that’s being a champion.” In an interesting comparison, Fisher said the challenge of coming to New York was not so different from the experience of immigrants. This could actually be harder. The Knicks have no first-round draft picks and will be handcuffed by severe salary cap issues through next season. The team’s best player, Carmelo Anthony, is likely to opt out of his contract, and the second-best player, J. R. Smith, is likely to flip out at the drop of a hat. Jason Kidd had Paul Pierce and Kevin Garnett to help set a professional tone. Fisher has the likes of Smith, whose goofball stunts — he was fined for unsportsmanlike conduct after he twice tried to untie an opponent’s shoelace — contributed to the brutal results of the Knicks’ season. Before Tuesday’s news conference, Smith, the previous season’s Sixth Man Award winner, posted on Twitter, “No more bench for me.” Jackson all but said that was an element of coaching he did not miss and one for which Fisher was eminently suited. Phil Jackson, the New York Knicks’ president, and Derek Fisher, their new coach, spoke after Mr. Fisher was hired to replace Mike Woodson. “I like the fact that he’s current with the players,” Jackson said. “This is a generation that’s a little bit different than the one I grew up with. Guys were listening to the Grateful Dead; they’re not doing that anymore. Derek has kind of gotten into the beat, and he’s hip-hop ready to get going with this group of guys and their language.” Advertisement Fisher’s problem is that the roster, as currently constructed, is not good enough, though Fisher disagreed. “There are a lot of very talented players, not just average players,” he said. Pressed to identify those talented players on a disaster of a roster, Fisher laughed. “I’m not going to single out players as though some are very talented and some aren’t,” he said. “If you’re in the N.B.A., you’re very, very talented.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “We have to find a way to create a format, a system, a way of playing that makes it easy for players to play the game, to be more effective to utilize the full talent on our roster, not to lean so heavily on one or two. We believe we can do it.” This leads to discussion about the triangle offense, developed by Tex Winter and refined by Jackson in Chicago, where he led the Bulls to six titles, and in Los Angeles, where he won five. At each stop, Jackson was fortunate to have two of the greatest players in N.B.A. history to execute the system: Michael Jordan and Scottie Pippen in Chicago, Kobe Bryant and Shaquille O’Neal in Los Angeles. Systems put players in a position to succeed, but players make systems. The Knicks, as currently constructed, don’t have that type of player. “There’s no question that having some of the greatest players to ever to play on your team, more times than not, can make your job easier,” Fisher said. “This is a results-oriented business. Great players make great things happen. We’re not going to create magic by making someone Magic Johnson who isn’t Magic Johnson.” Every team has a franchise player to build around. The Knicks, for now, have Anthony. Fisher said the challenge, should Anthony stay, is not pairing him with another superstar but getting the current roster to play at a higher level. Advertisement “How do you make the most of what you have?” Fisher said. “That’s the message I’ll send to these players every single day. We have to bloom where we’re planted, a lot of time in life. You can’t look for ways out and excuses why you aren’t excelling.” Fisher, presumably referring to the triangle, said his goal with the Knicks was to create “a format and a system of playing that allows for players that are very talented — maybe not as talented as Carmelo or Kobe — to give far more than they’ve ever given.” While salary cap issues are acute, and Anthony’s decision to stay or go is crucial, the first greatest challenge for the Knicks’ new leadership is changing the mind-set of an organization, its fan base and even a news media contingent for whom the cup is ever half empty. Jackson and Fisher have 18 championship rings between them. Their tough task will be convincing fans, and players, that the Knicks’ cup could soon runneth over. Email: wcr@nytimes.com A version of this article appears in print on June 11, 2014, on Page B15 of the New York edition with the headline: Championship Experience, if Not a Championship Roster.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »