Advertisement  Braves 5, Astros 3 ATLANTA, July 29 (AP) -- Terry Pendleton's tie-breaking seventh-inning home run allowed Tom Glavine to become baseball's first 16-game winner this season as the Atlanta Braves posted a 5-3 victory over the Houston Astros today. The victory snapped a three-game losing streak for the Braves, who had tied a club record by winning 13 straight before that. Glavine (16-3) won his 10th decision in a row, longest of his career and best in the majors this year. He hasn't lost since May 22, when he was beaten by Montreal. The Astros had started a 26-game, 28-day road trip -- longest in team history -- by winning the first two games of the series. In the third inning of Tuesday night's game, Atlanta pitcher Mike Bielecki tore the medial collateral ligament in his right elbow, and he will miss the rest of the season. Cardinals 4, Expos 1 Advertisement ST. LOUIS (AP) -- Bernard Gilkey robbed Larry Walker of a home run in the eighth inning and hit a three-run home run in the bottom of the ninth to give St. Louis the victory over Montreal, ending the Expos' four-game winning streak. Advertisement The Expos remained tied for first with Pittsburgh in the National League East, missing a chance to move a game up after the Pirates lost to the Cubs earlier in the day. The Expos have not been alone in first place since Aug. 14, 1989. Ray Lankford singled to start the ninth and Andres Galarraga was hit by a pitch from Dennis Martinez (10-10). After Todd Zeile popped up a bunt to Martinez, Gilkey, in a 6 for 36 slump, homered to left off Martinez on a 1-0 pitch. It was his first home run of the season. Cubs 6, Pirates 4 CHICAGO (AP) -- Sammy Sosa's two-run homer in the 11th inning carried the Cubs to their fourth straight victory. Sosa, who was hitless in five times at-bat and had struck out his three previous times up, homered after reliever Paul Assenmacher (3-2) drew a one-out walk off loser Stan Belinda (5-3). Dodgers 6, Giants 1 SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -- Ramon Martinez pitched six and one-third no-hit innings and Eric Karros hit a three-run homer for the Dodgers. Martinez (6-8) gave up a double to Will Clark with one out in the seventh, and Chris James drove him home with a single to shallow center. Martinez pitched seven innings, giving up three hits and three walks and striking out six. The Dodgers said Martinez left the game with a stiff neck. Roger McDowell, the fourth Los Angeles pitcher, got the last three outs to finish the combined five-hitter. Padres 7, Reds 3  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. SAN DIEGO (AP) -- Gary Sheffield hit his 19th homer and had a run-scoring double to break San Diego's all-time mark for a third baseman with 66 r.b.i. as the Padres beat Cincinnati. Graig Nettles had set the previous record in 1984. Athletics 5, Twins 4 MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -- Eric Fox hit a three-run homer off Rick Aguilera in the ninth inning, moving Oakland into a tie for first place with Minnesota. Oakland, outhit 14-7, has won six straight and moved into the American League West lead for the first time since July 4. The A's only other sweep in the Metrodome was from Aug. 6-8, 1982, the year the stadium opened. Red Sox 6, Rangers 5 BOSTON (AP) -- Roger Clemens struggled through six and one-third innings but earned his 11th victory and Tony Pena had a pair of r.b.i. doubles as Boston rallied past Texas. Advertisement A run-scoring wild pitch by Todd Burns (2-4) in the sixth broke a 3-3 tie, and r.b.i. doubles by Jody Reed and Pena made it 6-3. Clemens (11-7) has won just two of his last six decisions. Indians 4, Brewers 3 CLEVELAND (AP) -- Kenny Lofton went 3 for 3 and capped a three-run sixth inning with a two-run single to pace Cleveland. Lofton's two-out hit off reliever Darren Holmes gave the Indians their eighth victory in 11 games and made Jack Armstrong (3-13) a winner for the first time since June 16. Royals 5, Blue Jays 2 TORONTO (AP) -- Kevin Appier won his ninth consecutive decision and Gregg Jefferies had four hits as Kansas City beat Toronto, sending the American League East leader to its fourth loss in five games. Appier (12-3) is tied with Seattle's Dave Fleming for the longest winning streak in the league this season. Appier has given up only eight runs in eight starts for an e.r.a. of 1.15 over his last 62 2/3 innings. His season e.r.a. is 2.12. White Sox 8, Tigers 6 DETROIT (AP) -- Lance Johnson had the go-ahead r.b.i. single in a six-run ninth inning as Chicago rallied to beat Detroit, the Tigers' sixth straight loss. Mariners 8, Angels 0 ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) -- Brian Fisher earned his first major league victory since 1988 with seven shutout innings as Seattle beat California. Angels center fielder Junior Felix lost Jay Buhner's fly ball in the lights, leading to a three-run second inning against loser Bert Blyleven (4-5), and Omar Vizquel added a two-run single in the sixth. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 30, 1992, on Page B00014 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Glavine Gets 16th, Wins 10th in Row.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »