Advertisement By BILL PENNINGTONJUNE 24, 2014
 TORONTO —  The Yankees’ slumbering bats erupted Tuesday night, but poor defense — including two misplays in the same inning by shortstop Derek Jeter — ultimately cost the Yankees in a 7-6 loss to the Toronto Blue Jays. The winning run scored when Yankees third baseman Yangervis Solarte threw away a bunt in the bottom of the ninth, an error that followed a leadoff double by Toronto’s Jose Reyes. Reyes scored easily after Solarte’s errant throw sailed into right field. The Blue Jays built a 6-0 lead on a three-run homer in the fourth inning by Dioner Navarro and a three-run rally in the fifth, aided by Jeter’s misplays in the field. With two outs and Munenori Kawasaki at second base and Reyes at first, Jeter fielded a slow ground ball by Edwin Encarnacion but double-clutched on a throw to second base when he realized his throw would not arrive in time to get the speedy Reyes. Instead of firing immediately to first base to end the inning, Jeter turned to throw to third, but he had no play there, either. His throw to first was too late, and the bases were loaded. “It was the wrong decision, obviously,” Jeter said after the game. Colby Rasmus followed with a two-run double, but Rasmus was caught off first base on the outfield relay, which led to Jeter chasing Rasmus back toward first base as Encarnacion broke for home plate. That also proved to be a flawed choice, as Rasmus beat Jeter back to first base while Encarnacion scored to put Toronto ahead, 6-0. Advertisement The Yankees, who had been held to four runs in their past three games — all losses — rallied to tie the game with a solo homer by Jeter in the sixth and five runs in the chaotic seventh inning. In that inning, Brian Roberts hit a two-run homer, and three other runs scored on two Blue Jays throwing errors, a double by Brett Gardner, a walk by Jeter and a single by Jacoby Ellsbury. Yankees reliever Dellin Betances loaded the bases with one out in the eighth inning but escaped without giving up a run when he induced a ground-ball forceout at home and struck out Munenori Kawasaki. Advertisement The Yankees now trail Toronto by three and a half games in the American League East. A version of this article appears in print on June 25, 2014, on Page B15 of the New York edition with the headline: Yanks’ Rally Goes for Naught as Misplays Prove Undoing.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »