Advertisement By HARVEY ARATON New York City will sing "Happy Birthday" to Jimmy Connors tomorrow night on the Stadium Court of the National Tennis Center. It will be his 40th, and what a coincidence that his first-round match with Jaime Oncins of Brazil happened to fall on it. "It was fortunate for us that he ended up in the half of the draw that would play Tuesday or Wednesday," said Tom Barnes, the Open referee. Once that happened, as Barnes said, giving Connors his first-round birthday bash was "a no-brainer." He added, "What would you do?" Even the Open, which Jimbo ruled last year when he rolled like Old Man River into the semifinals, did not go so far as to extend the first round over three days just to accommodate Connors. That's Entertainment Advertisement While having more matches to improve the quality of the early night sessions, the main intention was to backlog the men's matches so there would be more than two left for the traditionally light second Tuesday of the tournament. Advertisement The result is that the Open gets to feature John McEnroe tonight and Connors tomorrow night, thus insuring that the tournament has one or both of them playing in a featured night match.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. For that, Barnes offered no apologies. "We're in the entertainment business," he said. Connors, who suffered a thigh muscle strain last week during the Hamlet Cup, practiced yesterday on one of the outer courts and appeared fit. In fact, he put on a show as he pretended to struggle through a practice session with John Lloyd. What a Show! He gasped, crawled, cavorted and managed to hit a few groundstrokes. Connors then pointed to a tiny mark on the inside of his left thigh, vestige of the injury he suffered a week ago at the Hamlet Cup, and vowed he would forget about it by the time he plays tomorrow night. "I'm out here, I'm ready," Connors said. "It beats being flat on my back somewhere." Connors, who loves the raucous night crowds at the Open, usually requests the first Tuesday night, but had no problems moving his debut back one night for the occasion. "It's a natural," Barnes said. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 1, 1992, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: TENNIS; Connors Aiming to Celebrate Twice.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »