Advertisement By ALAN RIDING and  By the end of the first week of the Summer Olympics, Pasqual Maragall was relaxed enough to get a good night's sleep. As both Mayor of Barcelona and President of the Olympic Organizing Committee, the problems he was facing were minimal compared with his worst fears. "After the first few days of adjustment, the machine is now oiled and working," he said, speaking of the challenge of managing a 120,000-strong army of athletes, officials, journalists, police and volunteers. "The only dangerous thing is to think it is a routine. We have to keep up the tension." Problems, of course, have arisen despite six years of meticulous planning -- low attendance in some outdoor stadiums where tickets had sold out, buses losing their way in the city while taking athletes and referees to events and a heat wave that is fierce even by Mediterranean standards. Yet, for Maragall and his team, the problems so far avoided are of far greater significance: there has been no terrorism, local Catalan nationalists have not disrupted sporting events and Barcelona has not been strangled by traffic jams. "The city is working well," the Mayor added. Advertisement Certainly, its mood is one of intense good cheer, with an assortment of musicians, acrobats, painters, preachers and peddlers all courting visitors who crowd its downtown streets, restaurants and "tapas" bars between outings to urge on their favorite teams or athletes.  Success on the Field Advertisement That Spain is doing well -- gold medals for Jose Manuel Moreno in cycling, Martin Lopez Zubero in swimming (though he is an American citizen), Daniel Plaza in the 20-kilometer walk and Miriam Blasco in women's lightweight judo, as well as creditable performances in gymnastics, soccer, volleyball and sailing. Those performances have helped to fan the Olympic spirit here. And when the spirit moves them, when Spaniards are in action, the stadiums are crowded. But when it doesn't move them, as has been particularly true in soccer, there have been minimal turnouts for games involving the likes of Qatar, Ghana and Australia. "We're used to very good soccer here," one Barcelona journalist explained. Low attendance of some other sports, however, has a more frustrating explanation: corporate sponsors and national Olympic committees were given tickets that have not being used by guests who are either picking their events or are simply put off by the 100-degree heat in outdoor stadiums. "The problem is that we have a contract that cannot be broken," Maragall said, "but it creates situations like the one at the Terrassa field hockey stadium the other day. There were 7,000 people watching, 2,000 empty seats and 4,000 people outside wanting to get in."  Filling Those Seats Under pressure from television companies that abhor broadcasting shots of empty seats, among them NBC, which paid $401 million for the American rights, the Olympic Organizing Committee announced earlier in the week that it would give away free tickets to fill the stands.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But the following day, it backpeddled, acknowledging it might cause chaos if ticket-holders suddenly arrived to find their places had been taken. Now Maragall has authorized the managers of each venue to issue free passes -- without numbered seats -- if stadiums look embarrassingly empty. With the popular track and field events under way, however, a different problem may arise -- that of managing the traffic of as many as 100,000 people simultaneously attending the Olympic stadium, the Sant Jordi indoor stadium and the Picornell swimming pool, which are all in Montjuic Park. Except for those vehicles bringing athletes and officials, all cars and buses have been banned from the park, which sits on a hill overlooking the city. Spectators must therefore use escalators, steps and paths to reach the stadium -- and when they leave most head for the nearby Plaza Espana subway station. Advertisement The movement of traffic around the city, in contrast, has been enormously facilitated by the construction of a ring road as well as by a publicity campaign warning locals of the perils of bringing their cars to the city center or to Olympic installations. "We set out to scare people a bit," the mayor explained, "and it has worked." The task of moving athletes and officials around the city, though, has not been without mishaps because many out-of-towners have been hired to drive the 600 official buses. One fencing event, for example, began an hour late because the bus carrying the referees was lost. Now, retired municipal policemen are riding the buses. To prepare for these Games, Maragall led a 100-member delegation to the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, South Korea, to see what they should copy and what they should avoid. Now it is the turn of the organizers of the 1996 Atlanta Games, including Mayor Maynard Jackson, to do the same in Barcelona. "I told Maynard that he would go through some difficult days here," Maragall said. "I told him, 'You'll see this and think you can't do it as well.' Three years ago, we were also full of doubts. But you suddenly get a momentum, and that will come to Atlanta. My advise is: do it your own way." Asked what he might have done differently here, the Barcelona mayor had a surprising answer. "I would have liked to find a better way of separating the Olympic Village from the city than by using chicken-wire," he said. "It's not beautiful and it breaks the idea of free communication. I hope Atlanta comes up with a better idea." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 2, 1992, on Page 8008002 of the National edition with the headline: BARCELONA; Barcelona Has Things Almost Under Control.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »