Advertisement By WILLIAM N. WALLACE and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES The Dallas Cowboys lost their quarterback, Troy Aikman, and their game against the Eagles today, but managed to stay alive for another week in the quest for a position in the playoffs. The Philadelphia Eagles, who won, 17-3, played poorly by admission of their coach, Buddy Ryan, but came a little closer to their goal of playing here at Veterans Stadium in the first round of the playoffs on the weekend of Jan. 5-6. Their opponent then will be the Washington Redskins, with whom the Eagles are now tied in the standing at 9-6. In their final regular-season games, Philadelphia plays at Phoenix on Saturday and Washington will be home against Buffalo on Sunday. If the two finish in a tie, their wild-card playoff would be here, the Eagles gaining the tie-break advantage because of a better record against National Conference opponents. Advertisement Whatever, the Philadelphia team had better do a better job offensively than what was achieved today. Their coach, Ryan, said, "We didn't play well and were about as sorry on offense as we have been all year." Advertisement Because Babe Laufenberg, Aikman's replacement, had such a terrible time against the Eagles' defense, Philadelphia was never in much jeopardy as the game staggered to a conclusion.  Crucial Play The decisive play came 6 minutes 27 seconds into the fourth period when Eric Allen, the Eagle cornerback, intercepted a Laufenberg pass and made a 35-yard return for a touchdown, his first in the National Football League. That completed the scoring and made a Cowboy comeback unlikely even in an unlikely game. There was the Aikman injury early on his third pass attempt, a separation in the right shoulder that ended the quarterback's season. "I guess I'm just part of the wave of quarterbacks that have gone down lately," he said. There was the constant pressure on Laufenberg from the Eagle defense, which helped to bring about four intercepted passes. Laufenberg, who participated in a full period of regular-season football for the first time since 1988, said, "I made big mistakes, and the Eagles didn't make things any easier for me."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In the second and third periods, Laufenberg had 13 incompletions in a row. Cowboys Don't Like Call There was a blunder, according to the Cowboys, from the N.F.L. replay system. A call by the field officials on an attempted pass by Randall Cunningham, the Eagle quarterback, was reversed in the second quarter with the Eagles leading, 10-3. The first call was that Cunningham had fumbled (the Cowboys recovered at the Philadelphia 28), the second by Chuck Heberling, the replay official, that it was an incomplete pass as the quarterback had been in the process of throwing. There was no turnover and the Eagles kept the ball. Jimmy Johnson, the Dallas coach, said: "There was no way that call should have gone the other way. He fumbled and the replay official blew the call." Cunningham, the top-rated passer in the National Conference ranking, had a game to forget. He took so much time in passing that the Cowboys were able to sack him 5 times and 2 of 28 attempts were intercepted. He completed 16 for 144 yards. Advertisement Philadelphia's first touchdown came on an 18-yard pass play with the passer the left-handed Keith Byars, the running back moving to his right on a fake end run. The recipient, left alone by Dallas, was Calvin Williams, the rookie flanker from Purdue who caught six passes for his best game as an Eagle. It was Byars's fourth touchdown pass in four attempts. "First time we ran it to the right side," said Ryan. "That threw Dallas off." Unlikely Play Byars played a part in another unlikely play of the second period. Keith Jackson caught a pass for an 11-yard gain but fumbled. Byars kicked the loose football accidentally and it bounded 45 yards downfield before Williams recovered for the Eagles at the Dallas 20. Seven plays later, Roger Ruzek kicked a 29-yard field goal for a 10-3 lead. The Cowboys, who had only one victory last season, had won their last four games to reach .500, at 7-7. The coaches, Johnson and Ryan, had been feuding since last year and a huge sign in the stands read, "Jimmy The Party's Over." Prophetic, although the ending was not much of a party. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 24, 1990, on Page 1001036 of the National edition with the headline: Cowboy Hopes Dim After Losing, 17-3.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »