Advertisement By CHRISTOPHER CLAREYJUNE 3, 2014
 PARIS — Flower power was no match for Ernests Gulbis at the French Open on Tuesday. However loud Tomas Berdych’s tropical-patterned shirt was on the other side of the net, there was no distracting Gulbis, who continues to play like a man fiercely determined to make up for lost matches and opportunities. Berdych, the big Czech, kept picking at his strings between points, often with a pained expression on his face, waiting for Gulbis to exit the zone. But despite screaming babies, questionable line calls, high stakes and all of Berdych’s raw power, Gulbis continued to sustain excellence, and he soon, remarkably soon, had his reward: a 6-3, 6-2, 6-4 upset of the sixth-seeded Berdych that put him into his first Grand Slam semifinal, at age 25. Gulbis, the only Latvian man to play in a Grand Slam tournament, will face a familiar face — Novak Djokovic, a boyhood friend who is on a mission of his own in Paris. Advertisement The second-seeded Djokovic, chasing the only Grand Slam singles title he lacks, defeated Milos Raonic of Canada, 7-5, 7-6 (5), 6-4, on the main Philippe Chatrier Court. Advertisement Djokovic and Gulbis have known each other since they were teenagers training at the Niki Pilic tennis academy in Munich: Djokovic far from his family and roots in Serbia; Gulbis far from his own in Latvia. Their recollections differ. Gulbis remembers that they did not spend that much time together. Djokovic, two years older, remembers that they were in adjacent rooms and spent a lot of time together training, playing cards and watching television. “So we were good friends,” Djokovic said. “We know each other really well. He was always somebody that was very enthusiastic about everything in life, and you could see he wanted to enjoy it with the open arms, if I can say that politically correct.” Gulbis liked to party, but he still remembers Djokovic giving him some advice about the right path to success and the right temptations to avoid. “He was really professional already at that time,” Gulbis said. “I remember we had a friend. There was one Croatian guy who was all about the girls at that age already. He was dressing up. He was looking good, putting perfume, sunglasses, going to talk to the girls. I see Novak, he’s going to stretch.” Now more than a decade later, they are back together in the final four of a major tournament. This is, of course, business as usual for the second-seeded Djokovic, who has won six majors and spent a long stretch at No. 1. But this is new territory for Gulbis, who was back to playing Challenger events not long ago before rebuilding his career under the tutelage of Gunther Bresnik, a veteran Austrian coach with a long list of talented but headstrong former clients, including Henri Leconte and Boris Becker. Advertisement “I found throughout all these years what is important for me to be truly happy,” said Gulbis, who comes from a wealthy family. “I said it many times: my happiness comes only from doing well my job. Then I can really live my life to the maximum. I can enjoy the stuff much more, so for me it’s really important for my happiness just to be successful on the tennis court.” He has won nine matches in a row, all on clay: winning the tournament in Nice and getting through five rounds in Paris, following up his five-set upset with Roger Federer in the fourth round with a more focused and relentless performance against Berdych, who had beaten him in four of their six previous matches. “There was no hole in his game today,” Bresnik said of Gulbis. “If there was a chance to get into a hole, he stopped it immediately. It was impressive.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Gulbis looks like he hasn’t seen a hairbrush or a laundromat in some time. But however disheveled he appears, his game is pulled together at the moment. He has tics galore: tugging at his shirt, wiping the lines and marks with his sneakers, balancing the ball on his fingertips and playing with it just before he bounces it to serve. But it was all working. There were huge flat serves up the T for aces or hooking, sliced serves that Berdych simply could not read or handle. There were wickedly well-disguised topspin lobs and drop shots and lunging defense off both wings that kept forcing Berdych to hit one extra shot or go for too much. Berdych is one of the most dangerous players on any surface when he is stable when he swings. But he is not as effective at improvisation. He bemoaned his own play afterward, but much of it had to do with Gulbis, who was particularly effective serving to Berdych’s body and countering his baseline blasts. If Gulbis can serve, move and strike the ball as well as he did on Tuesday, he has a chance to beat anyone. But Djokovic will pose much greater challenges with his excellent returns, his large power-hitting zone and his phenomenal court coverage that will make it all too easy for Gulbis to go for too much himself on Friday. It will also be strength against strength on the backhand diagonal, a pattern that Gulbis can often dominate. “From his side, I expect really stable tennis, no mistakes, no easy points,” said the 18th-seeded Gulbis “I just have to be from the first point to the last one 100 percent without any excuse.” Advertisement Djokovic holds a 4-1 edge and in their last match, in the round of 32 in Indian Wells, Calif., on a hard court in 2011, Djokovic overwhelmed Gulbis, 6-0, 6-1. That was before Bresnik, before Gulbis recovered his desire and his balance. But Bresnik, delighted as he is with his pupil’s play in Paris, is still wary. “Everybody else I would take, but Djokovic is unbeatable this year,” Bresnik said. That is quite a statement about a tournament in which Rafael Nadal, the eight-time champion and four-time defending champion, is still in contention. “The semis you take whoever comes,” Bresnik said. “But for me, Djokovic this year, before the tournament here, already was highly favored to win.” But Gulbis, in his first Grand Slam semifinal, does not want to get bogged down with labels or predictions. Nor does he want to get weighed down by the past. “Just for me, it’s 0-0 with him in matches,” Gulbis said of Djokovic. “The way I’m playing now, I never played like this. I never felt like this. It’s just 0-0.” A version of this article appears in print on June 4, 2014, on Page B18 of the New York edition with the headline: Semifinal Reunion for Gulbis and Djokovic.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »