Advertisement By RICHARD SANDOMIR ESPN is busily preparing its return to hockey. The Oct. 6 premiere is a week away, but may not face off if SportsChannel America gets its legal way. Tomorrow, SCA will seek to undo the ESPN-N.H.L. deal by contending before the Appellate Division of the State Supreme Court that the league violated last year's SCA-N.H.L. contract when it signed a Sept. 2 deal with ESPN. On Sept. 9, a State Supreme Court justice denied SCA a preliminary injunction that would have effectively put the ESPN-N.H.L. deal on ice. This case has one clear motif: The league desperately wanted to shed itself of SCA and return to the embrace of ESPN, which aired N.H.L games for three years through 1987-88. In court papers, league officials bemoaned their inability to make long-term deals with ESPN in 1988, and, again in 1991. Advertisement SCA's mediocre production values and limited breadth (reaching 25 million homes at most vs. ESPN's 60 million) symbolized the N.H.L.'s marketing failures. Advertisement The league sold SCA its rights for $15.8 million for 1988-89, $16.8 million for 1989-90 and $17.9 million for 1990-91. On the eve of the 1991-92 season, SCA paid $5.5 million -- "an embarrassment to the league," John Ziegler, the former N.H.L. president, said in an affidavit. The league apparently wanted nothing to do with SCA for the 1992-93 season. By July 24, with Ziegler gone and Gil Stein, the general counsel, taking over on an interim basis, Stein declared a key provision in the 1991-92 agreement invalid, saying the league had never approved it. Trouble was, SCA viewed the provision as containing renewal, or "first-refusal rights," which it would not have signed the contract without. The clause not-too-clearly states that if the league chose not to extend SCA for 1992-93 at $6 million, it had to tender SCA a figure to bid on; if SCA passed, the league could negotiate outside offers at the same terms (such as number of games and local-market blackouts) in the 1991-92 pact. The league construed the clause to mean it was free to explore its options after 1991-92 -- otherwise, why would it sign a stopgap one-year deal with SCA? Whatever the interpretation, Stein had cherry-picked what he wanted from the SCA deal: the league accepted SCA's cash; SCA aired the games. The sides dealt as directed by the terms regarding the 1992-93 option. Yet Stein deemed the renewal clause void because he had not seen it -- how strange that the general counsel never saw the TV agreement -- and the league's board of governors never approved it. Besides, Stein questioned the authority of Joel Nixon, his own vice president of broadcasting (since resigned), to sign off on the disputed renewal rights.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Stein felt he could declare SCA's renewal rights invalid yet avoid a lawsuit by making SCA an offer that he believed met the spirit of the non-binding renewal clause. So he told SCA it could re-up at $18 million. Advertisement Meanwhile, the league and ESPN were discussing a long-term contract. The league's chief negotiator was Bob Gutkowski, the president of Madison Square Garden, which owns the New York Rangers and airs its games on the MSG Network. But the offer to SCA was a clear attempt to get SCA out of the way. "I wanted to know from Bob what amount he felt confident ESPN would agree to pay for the first year (1992-1993)," Stein said. "My objective was to make SCA an offer that Bob was confident ESPN would better if SCA turned it down." Gutkowski was pushing for ESPN to pay $20 million for the first year, thought $19 million possible and was confident ESPN would pay "something more than $18 million for the first season." Stein thought $18 million was far more than SCA would pay because SCA had bled tens of millions of dollars on hockey since 1988. Jeffrey Ruhe, SCA's president, never responded to the offer, because of Stein's insistence on numerous contractual modifications Ruhe said violated the renewal clause in the 1991-92 contract. Stein eventually became convinced that SCA "wants to kill the N.H.L.'s deal with ESPN so that the N.H.L." had to sell its rights to SCA "on the cheap." What further angered SCA was that it was never offered anything like the multiyear goodies tendered ESPN: a one-year deal at $18.1 million for 1992-93 for United States hockey rights, plus an option granting ESPN four more years of United States rights and five years of international rights for about $50 million through the 1996-97 season. The league also said it would try to persuade club owners to lift blackouts of ESPN games in the markets of the two teams playing -- a lucrative plum for ESPN, which encroaches on local sports channels. In its lawsuit against the N.H.L., SCA contended that it was damaged by being deprived of the bidding process it believed was outlined in the 1991-92 contract. But Justice Shirley Fingerhood, in rejecting SCA's argument, wrote that "deprivation of contractual rights, no matter how valuable, does not constitute the harm necessary to justify preliminary injunctive relief." AIR WAVES The JIMMY CONNORS-MARTINA NAVRATILOVA pay-per-view match showed $24.95 worth of gall: two error-filled sets without much showmanship and undistinguished commentary -- all preceded by an unconscionable celebrity prelim in which only one player, CATHY LEE CROSBY was passable. This would have been worth the price only if Bing Crosby had played. Early returns showed a buy rate of about six-tenths of 1 percent, out of 21 million homes, said DANTIA GOULD of Pay-Per-View Update. Promoter RICK KULIS expects at least 100,000 buyers, to make a profit and to match Connors against MONICA SELES in April. Dandy. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 29, 1992, on Page B00014 of the National edition with the headline: TV SPORTS; N.H.L. Skating Its Way Through Maze of Cables.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »