Advertisement By FILIP BONDY and  Fifty-two Italian journalists and 42 Italian soccer officials had traversed many difficult miles to arrive, rain-soaked and cranky, at the Yale Bowl on Sunday. Now, they were totally baffled. Luca Fusi for Riccardo Ferri? What kind of lineup craziness is this? "Fusi at midfield is a positive experiment," said Arrigo Sacchi, coach of the Italian national soccer team, at a terse post-match news conference. "He played well there." Sacchi eyed his audience with professorial distance, offering no apology for a 0-0 tie against Portugal. Nobody was satisfied. This was just a World Cup qualifying tune-up, in horrendous weather, in Connecticut. But when all of Italy is watching on live television, there is no such thing as an exhibition. There is only panic. 'Results Always Questioned' "The problem in Italy," said Azeglio Vicini, the recently deposed coach of the national team, "is your choices and results are always questioned. You have to confront millions of potential coaches. Each Italian has his own lineup in mind." Advertisement The current lineup, Sacchi's version of the Forza Arruzzi, performs here this week to play in the United States Cup, to educate the American heathens on the fine art of possession soccer and their new brand of in-your-foot zone defense. They continue the demonstration, and the round-robin tournament, Thursday afternoon in Foxboro, Mass., against Ireland and on Saturday afternoon in Chicago against the United States. Advertisement Here among appreciative and passionate friends, the Italians can do no wrong. They are cheered as sporting liberators by Americans of Italian heritage wherever they play, buffeted by songs and chants and flags. "There are so many Italians here," marveled goaltender Walter Zenga, in New Haven, "that we want to come in here and show them respect with great soccer." Rebuilding for Cup Such goodwill, however, does not necessarily extend beyond these shores. Back home in Italy, Sacchi will have to answer for whatever his team does on Channel Uno or Due, as Vicini did before him. Vicini was ousted last fall after the latest in a long line of periodic Italian soccer disasters. In shocking succession, Italy lost to Norway, tied Hungary, and failed to qualify for the European championship to be held this month in Sweden. "We can waste no more time," declared the omnipresent Antonio Matarrese, president of the Federazion Italiana Giuoco Calcio, the Italian Soccer Federation. "We must rebuild for the World Cup." Sacchi, a 46-year-old former shoe salesman who made his reputation by winning two European Cups and a league title with AC Milan, signed an $800,000-a-year contract last October with the national team through 1996. He began instituting his rigorous, trapping system immediately. Here was another enormous ego attempting to impose an iron will on a group of typically nonconformist Italian players.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "We are all still learning," Sacchi said. "It has not always been easy." 'The Great Chain' This war has been fought many times before in Italy, sometimes successfully. Two legendary coaches, Vittorio Pozzo and Enzo Bearzot, won three World Cup championships between them, allowing some self-expression from their forwards but tethering the defenders to a strict, no-lose philosophy. Pozzo, in particular, relied on the conservative system called catenaccio, "the great chain," with seven players retreating to the defensive third of the field to tightly mark opponents, man-to-man, while four defenders packed the penalty box. "If I let them make mistakes, I lose my authority," Pozzo said, during his height in the 30's. Sacchi has decided to do things much differently, which has raised eyebrows and expectations. Borrowing a bit from the total soccer concept invented by the Netherlands during the 70's, he is employing a mobile, high-pressure zone defense. To make this work more smoothly, Sacchi is relying heavily on several players he coached at AC Milan: midfielders Roberto Donadoni and Alessandro Costacurta, plus defenders Franco Baresi and Paolo Maldini. Advertisement The result, thus far, has been good, although never perfect enough. After a tie against Norway in Genoa in November, Italy beat up on weak Cyprus and San Marino before earning an impressive 1-0 victory over Germany in a friendly match at Turin. The tie with Portugal on Sunday offered some more hope, with notably aggressive, two-way play from reserve Attilio Lombardo. "Sacchi's mentality is beginning to produce results," Matarresse said after the Portugal match. "I saw a serious Italy, animated by a great will to play, and it was about time this happened." Zenga Still in Goal Vicini's team was considered the second-best club at the 1990 World Cup in Italy, and it was hoped that the home advantage might even give the Italians an edge over powerful West Germany. Instead, in a tactical error still lamented by Mattarrese, the Italians sat on a one-goal lead against Argentina in a semifinal, losing in a penalty shootout. Long gone from the national team roster is World Cup hero Salvatore Schillaci, the little Sicilian attacker who scored six goals during the 1990 tournament. Ironically, Sacchi has retained some of the World Cup's biggest disappointments. His top forward is Gianluca Vialli, benched during the World Cup but a 19-goal scorer for Sampdoria this season before his $21 million transfer to Juventus. Roberto Baggio, who has 11 goals in 20 international matches, is the other glamorous striker from Juventus. Sacchi's penchant for experienced, wise, and arguably fading players is most evident in goal, where Zenga still roams despite uneven performances in big international matches. He has survived a stiff challenge from Gianluca Pagliuca of Sampdoria, mainly because Sacchi believes there is more to goaltending than stopping shots. Big Test Ahead For Sacchi and the Italians, the big test begins next year, with tough qualification matches for the World Cup. Italy is in a six-nation qualifying group with solid Scotland, young Portugal, worrisome Switzerland, and spoilers Estonia and Malta. Only two teams advance to the 1994 World Cup finals in the United States. "I think Italy, Scotland, and Portugal all have equal chance to advance," Sacchi said, at New Haven. Fifty-two Italian journalists and 42 Italian soccer officials didn't believe him for a second. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 4, 1992, on Page B00019 of the National edition with the headline: SOCCER>; Where Italian Players Can Relax.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »