Advertisement By TIMOTHY W. SMITH Most of the time the National Football League displays its arrogance like a coat of arms. It's hard to be humble when you're a recession-proof billion-dollar corporation, a monopoly operating with impunity, and you have adoring supporters filling your stadiums and a willing labor pool that literally gives an arm and a leg to work for you. This week the N.F.L. strutted into the United States District Court in Minneapolis wielding its arrogance like Excalibur, slicing through the plaintiffs during cross-examination in Freeman McNeil v. the National Football League for daring to take a stand against the league's Plan B free agency policy. Under the policy, 37 players are protected or restricted by each team, while its remaining players are allowed to sign with the 27 other teams in the league. The eight players who sued were protected by their teams, prohibited from negotiating with other teams even though their contracts with their teams had expired. The players are suing for $3 million in damages and the right to offer their services on the open market to the highest bidder. Frank Rothman, the N.F.L.'s attorney, is the point man in the league's defense. Rothman is the league's bulldog, attacking the players' lack of talent and the length of time they work in relationship to amount of money they receive from the teams. Advertisement After opening statements on Tuesday by Rothman and Jim Quinn, the players' attorney, N.F.L. Commissioner Paul Tagliabue said: "Quinn convinced me that we are going to win. Whatever reason we had to settle is gone by the boards, because it's clear that we're going to win this case." Advertisement Call it posturing or confidence or arrogance, but that's the kind of attitude that the N.F.L. exudes. The league exhibited it in its previous collective-bargaining negotiations with the players and previous court challenges. It's what ultimately led the N.F.L. to this trial. And if it doesn't play well with the jury of eight Minnesota women, this attitude could be costly. This is a middle-of-the-road jury, dipped from a 21-member pool of white faces -- no blacks, Hispanics, Asians or American Indians among them -- many of whom listed their church as their main social organization. It was the kind of jury pool that produced one prospective juror who, upon being questioned by the judge as to whether her being a victim of a crime would influence her attitude toward the five black plaintiffs in the case, said: "No. As a matter of fact my oldest son is an honorary Negro." No one around her flinched. She, along with all the union members and hard-core sports fans, was eliminated when the attorneys exercised their option to exclude jurors. What was left was a group that could probably buy the league's argument that players make too much money to be complaining about not being able to move from team to team to make more money. When the jury finds out how much money the owners make in relation to how much the average N.F.L. player earns, sympathies may shift.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. So far in the trial, Rothman has done a good job painting N.F.L. team owners as benevolent employers who cater to their players' financial demands, even though sometimes, as in his example of one of the plaintiffs, Green Bay quarterback Don Majkowski, they don't play well enough to deserve the money they get. The N.F.L. contends that the owners don't have to give the players loads of money. But they do, because they want to keep the players happy and it's the right thing to do. The owners want competitive teams for a competitive league, because without a competitive league the fans won't be happy, won't buy tickets, won't watch the games on television, and the league will go out of business. In order to keep competitive teams, the owners ask the players to sign agreements that bind them to the same team until the team decides the player can no longer help them remain competitive. But the players, even the ones on the lowest end of the wage scale, are paid more money than autoworkers or school teachers or secretaries. And the players only work a few months out of the year. The restriction on movement is a minor inconvenience for which the players are handsomely compensated, the N.F.L. argues. Wednesday during cross-examination of Randy Vataha, the agent for Majkowski and Dave Richards of San Diego, another plaintiff in the case, Rothman was in rare form, playing up the overpaid argument: "The year that he was earning $1.5 million, Mr. Majkowski was benched because of poor performance, wasn't he? How many games was he benched? You don't know, do you?" Following the same line of questioning, Rothman said: "I don't mean this to be facetious, and please don't take it that way, but after a player has an abysmal season, no one comes to him and says give us some of that money back, do they? Of course not." Then, he spun around to face the jury, giving them an incredulous look; it has become a familiar move during the trial's first week. Advertisement The jury will ultimately decide whether freedom has a price tag, and who should pay the cost. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 21, 1992, on Page 8008005 of the National edition with the headline: ON PRO FOOTBALL; N.F.L. Shoulder Pads Include a Chip.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »