Advertisement By CLIFTON BROWN and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES After their 1-2 start, the last thing the Knicks want to do is panic. There will be plenty of time for that if their play doesn't improve. "The biggest question now is can we handle all the outside negatives that will come from being 1-2?" Coach Stu Jackson said at practice today, the day after the Knicks lost a 16-point second-quarter lead to Dallas at Madison Square Garden and were beaten, 96-91. "I hope that doesn't sidetrack us. "Even though we're 1-2, the fact is that we've played very good basketball in parts of all three of our games. But we haven't been able to maintain our defensive presence over the long haul, especially in the fourth quarter." Despite glimpses of strong play, the Knicks have shown glaring deficiencies. They are still a much better offensive team when they can fast break rather than relying on their set offense. They are not a consistent defensive team, particularly when Patrick Ewing is on the bench or in foul trouble. They are not an outstanding shooting team from the perimeter. And their half-court offense has been predictable.  Execution Is Key Factor Advertisement But Jackson said the problem with New York's offense was not predictability; the problem was execution. Advertisement "If we're predictable, it doesn't matter," Jackson said. "The whole key is reading defenses and execution. Dallas last night was pretty predictable down the stretch. They were going to Rolando Blackman, a deadly jump shooter. But after jump shot, jump shot, jump shot, he read the defense and went back door. He got a layup and the game was over. We knew the play. It didn't matter. "Last year in the playoffs against Boston, coming down the stretch, everybody knew we were going to give the ball to Patrick. We knew the Celtics were going to double-team. But when they did, Patrick passed it back out, we hit a 3-pointer, and the game was over. It's all a matter of execution."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But can this current group of Knicks become a better half-court team offensively and a better defensive team over all? Jackson, naturally, thinks so. So does Al Bianchi, the general manager. Both will find out. It is unlikely New York will make a major deal this month because other teams will probably not make trades until they find out what their biggest needs are.  No Complaint About Talent "I don't buy the talk that we're not that talented," Bianchi said. "We're talented enough to get big leads against some pretty good teams. Our problem is executing down the stretch. We'll probably never be as good in the half-court game as some teams. We've gotten better. But we're not as good as we need to be." New York has a chance to end its two-game skid Thursday night at home against the Washington Bullets (1-1). The Bullets are not an exceptionally talented team, but they have a history of playing tough, disciplined basketball under the direction of their coach, Wes Unseld. Considering the way the Knicks are playing now, New York cannot take any team lightly. "There are only a few teams I can think of that will knock people off when they don't play the best they can," Jackson said. "We're not one of those teams."  WAITING FOR WALKER Kenny Walker, the Knicks' reserve forward, is eligible to come off the injured list Sunday. But Walker, who has a strained knee, will probably not be ready to play until at least Nov. 17, when the Knicks play the 76ers at the Garden after returning from a four-game West Coast trip. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 8, 1990, on Page D00024 of the National edition with the headline: PRO BASKETBALL; Amid Some Strong Play, Knicks Struggle on Defense.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »