Advertisement By ROBERT MCG. THOMAS JR. Washington Redskins Desmond Howard, the speedy Michigan receiver/punt returner who won the 1991 Heisman Trophy, remained as elusive as ever yesterday. His agent, Leigh Steinberg, who went to the Redskins' camp in Carlisle, Pa., on Tuesday vowing to get a contract, returned to California empty-handed, but was still hopeful of concluding a deal by telephone. Howard, who has been seeking $1.75 million or so a season, might seem cheap at the price to the Redskins, who have also tried unsuccesfully to sign tackle Jim Lachey. Lachey has been looking for $2 million a year. Philadelphia Eagles While the Redskins are trying to bring in Howard, the Eagles have found their own explosive returner. His name is Jeff Snyder, and if you have to look twice to find him it's because the 5-foot-6-inch, 170-pound receiver/returner is one of the smallest players in the N.F.L., not to mention one of the most impressive rookies. In three exhibition games, Snyder, a sixth-round pick from the University of Hawaii, has scored three touchdowns, two by catching passes and one by running back a punt 90 yards. He also has a 23.4-yard punt return average and a team-leading five tackles on special teams. Advertisement Snyder seems to take special delight in cutting down the tall timber on kickoffs. As he told The Philadelphia Inquirer: "They look at you like, 'You hit me that hard?' " Los Angeles Rams Advertisement The Rams cut second-year kicker Jerry Kauric, leaving Tony Zendejas without a challenger. That might seem surprising considering that Zendejas was 24th in scoring among the league's kickers last season, but his paltry 76 points was hardly his fault. Although he did miss one of his 26 extra-point attempts, he was 17 for 17 in field goals. Indianapolis Colts The Colts broke camp a day early and cut seven players, including linebacker Carl Zander, a Plan B acquisition who started 14 games for Cincinnati last year. Coach Ted Marchibroda said the Colts were so deep at linebacker he decided to cut Zander early so he would have time to find a new job. San Diego Chargers  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In a sport that is said to come down to a matter of blocking and tackling, surprisingly few players get a chance to block    and    tackle. The latest exception is Steve Hendrickson. After two years as an H-back, Hendrickson has been shifted to linebacker, and according to Coach Bobby Ross, he's taken the transition in stride. "He's done a tremendous job," said Ross, who has not ruled out using Hendrickson as part of the team's goal-line offense. One reason Hendrickson has taken to the new position is that it is an old one. He was a linebacker before he came to the Chargers as a free agent in 1990 and began making a name for himself as a special teams player. Green Bay Packers Now you might not want to stand up on tip-toe, look him directly in the chin and tell an offensive tackle that he is cherished more for his bulk than his dexterity, but in the N.F.L., tackle is not considered a skill position. So when Ken Ruettgers, a 6-foot-6-inch, 286-pound left tackle, settled his contract dispute, he was told to expect to play in Saturday's game against the Rams. As the line coach, Tom Lovatt, explained: "If he was a guard, I'd say he needs more time. But a tackle is more physical. It's just a matter of going out there." Miami Dolphins Linebacker Cliff Odom agreed to a two-year, $1.2 million contract just when the Dolphins need him most. Starting outside linebacker David Griggs is still unsigned, and two current starters, John Offerdahl and John Grimsley, suffered slight injuries in Saturday's 31-27 victory over Denver. Odom had more tackles (181) over the last two seasons than any other Dolphin. His return leaves Miami with two unsigned players, Griggs and starting fullback Tony Paige. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 20, 1992, on Page B00014 of the National edition with the headline: N.F.L. Training Camp Report.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »