Advertisement By GEORGE VECSEY There is a school of thought that the state of New York has only one football team, and its name is the Buffalo Bills. Mario Cuomo or his chancellor of the exchequer could surely articulate why any New York taxpayer should root, root, root for the only team to play its home games within the boundaries of the Empire State. There have even been suggestions that the Giants should give back the "New York" part of their name, now that they have gone west to New Jersey. The Jets also play in the swamplands, but at least they train on the plains of Long Island. Does that leave the Bills as New York's Team, the way the Dallas Cowboys once were allegedly America's Team? Advertisement "The Governor or anybody is entitled to an opinion," said Bill Polian, from the Fordham section of the Bronx and Mount St. Michael's Academy and a former safety for New York University. Advertisement Polian, who still resides within Governor Cuomo's domain, is now the Bills' general manager, and in fact was named the National Football League's Executive of the Year in 1989 by The Sporting News. He steers clear of the controversial premise that every fan in downstate New York should be rooting for the Bills tomorrow when they invade the new mecca, Giants Stadium. The game is barely about bragging rights for the state but hugely about favorable position in the playoffs. Growing up on Creston Avenue, Polian could not exactly hear Bob Sheppard's august tones announcing tackles by Robustelli or touchdowns by Gifford, but he lived close enough to feel the psychic vibrations. He used to attend Giants games when he could come up with a ticket, and he never switched allegiance when the New York Titans were formed at the Polo Grounds in 1960, even though tickets were, you would have to say, available. Polian lived long enough in the Bronx to know the hold the Giants have on the region. The passion for a football team is not so blatant as in south Florida, where people drive around with official state license plates professing their loyalties to the Florida Gators, the Florida State Seminoles and the Miami Hurricanes, and on Sunday afternoon the malls and the cafeterias and even the beaches thin out and people unite behind the Dolphins. Still, watch what happens at a Manhattan dinner party if you denigrate the Giants. Somebody you would hardly suspect will reveal the tortured soul of a Giant fan. Bill Polian understands.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. For more than a decade, Polian helped coach at Manhattan, the United States Merchant Marine Academy and Columbia, not exactly the good-old-boy network, and he scouted for professional teams, and in between he sold advertising. Eventually, Polian had to leave home, to work for the Winnipeg Blue Bombers, the Montreal Alouettes, the Kansas City Chiefs and the Chicago Blitz before landing a job in his home state, albeit many hours away on the Thruway. Advertisement As the director of pro personnel in 1984 and 1985, Polian signed Bruce Smith, "the obvious No. 1 choice in the college draft," now a defensive end leading the league with 19 sacks and proclaiming himself the best defensive player in the league, and he may be right. Polian does not take credit for the arrival of Jim Kelly in 1986, noting that Kelly had been drafted by Buffalo in 1983 before spending two seasons in the United States Football League. When Polian succeeded Terry Bledsoe as general manager on Dec. 30, 1985, his first instinct was to get the scouts, the coaches and the administrators "all on the same page." Having watched quarterbacks trying to throw the ball in his previous frigid posts, Polian said, "If you're going to play in severe weather conditions in December, and, hopefully, January, and even November in Buffalo, you must have a strong running game and a strong defense." The first big move in Polian's regime began when Bob Ferguson, the director of pro personnel, heard that the Indianapolis Colts were thinking of trading their top draft choice, Cornelius Bennett, a linebacker from Alabama. After consulting the Bills' coach, Marv Levy, a longtime friend, and John Butler, the college scout, and, "of course," Ralph Wilson, one of the owners from the original American Football League, Polian helped arrange a complex trade that sent Eric Dickerson to the Colts, a lot of high draft choices to the Rams, and Bennett to the Bills. "That gave us two great impact players on defense. You have to think about both of them, just like the Giants," Polian said, referring to the two linebackers, Lawrence Taylor and Carl Banks. Does that statement indicate some vestigial affection for the Giants? Polian said diplomatically: "Once a Giant fan, always a Giant fan. But I guess my rooting interest has changed to a deep respect." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 14, 1990, on Page B00009 of the National edition with the headline: SPORTS OF THE TIMES;   Bronx Man Comes Home, Sort Of.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »