Advertisement By MURRAY CHASS and  National League owners gave the first formal indication today that they are ready to consider geographic reality. But the Chicago Cubs and the St. Louis Cardinals may insist that baseball's map remain convoluted. Bill White, the league president, said the owners discussed the possibility of realigning their two divisions beginning in 1993, when the league will expand to 14 teams with the addition of Miami and Denver. Under the plan, the Cubs and the Cardinals would switch from East to West and the Atlanta Braves and the Cincinnati Reds from West to East. "We hope to know soon whether the National League will realign," White said. "The general mood on realignment wasn't all negative." A Larger Discussion Realignment was part of a larger discussion that included the schedule for a 14-team league. The 14-team American League plays what is called a balanced schedule, with each team playing 13 games against teams in its division and 12 games against teams in the other division. Advertisement The National League would prefer an unbalanced schedule, with teams playing more games against intradivision rivals and fewer against interdivision teams. One proposal calls for as many as 20 games against division rivals and 6 games against teams in the other division; another proposal would have fewer games against division rivals. Advertisement The schedule, White said, would be determined in part by the decision on realignment. If the four teams are moved, one of the unbalanced schedules would be adopted. If they are not, White said, the American League schedule would be considered among other alternatives. The Cubs and the Cardinals hold the key to the entire matter because they are initially reluctant to switch, if not opposed. The Braves and the Reds would favor the change. "Chicago and St. Louis both have problems with how a move will affect their opportunities to have their games broadcast, not only on television but also on radio," White said.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. If they were to move to the Western Division, the Cubs and the Cardinals would play more games on the West Coast, meaning those additional games would begin later, at 9:30 P.M. Chicago and St. Louis time. The Cubs would especially be affected because their games are shown on a superstation throughout the country. "We will meet again with all the teams affected and know probably within a month whether or not the National League will be able to realign," White said. Nine of the 12 teams would have to vote for realignment for it to pass. The four affected cities would have to approve because each has a veto over the plan. No vote was taken today, White said. Mariner Sale Update American League owners heard a report from Jeff Smulyan, owner of the beleaguered Seattle Mariners, about the status of that franchise's problems. Smulyan has put the team up for sale for $100 million to anyone willing to keep the team in Seattle, as he has to do under terms of the stadium lease. Prospective owners have 120 days to take action, or else Smulyan contends he could move the team. The city of St. Petersburg, Fla., eagerly awaits the Mariners' arrival. Smulyan declined at a news conference to say what he would do after the 120-day period ends in late March. "We'll have to address that issue at that time," he said. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 11, 1991, on Page B00019 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Expansion and Geography Lessons.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »