Advertisement  GOLF  Beck Leads by 4 Chip Beck set a two-round tournament record and grabbed a four-shot lead by shooting a 65 yesterday in the second round of the $1 million Freeport McMoRan Golf Classic in New Orleans. Beck's 36-hole total was 132 and broke the record of 135 set in 1989 by Dan Forsman and Tim Simpson. His 65 was one shot off the course record of 64 set by Joel Edwards last year. Brad Bryant, who shot a 69 yesterday, was at 136. (AP) Rodriguez Moves Ahead: If there's a runaway at the Tradition in Scottsdale, Ariz., it will have to come in the last two rounds. Jack Nicklaus, who has won the Senior PGA Tour tournament two straight years by coming from behind, shot a seven-under-par 65 in the first round and seemed poised for a stroll. In the second round, however, Chi Chi Rodriguez scored a 66 and took a one-shot lead with a 36-hole total of 9-under-par 135. He started four shots behind Nicklaus and wound up one shot in front of Lee Trevino and two strokes ahead of the first-day leader, who had an even-par 72. (AP) Two Tied in Las Vegas: Florence Descampe of Belgium and Michelle McGann took advantage of greens softened by several days of rain to shoot five-under-par 67's and share the first-round lead in the Las Vegas L.P.G.A. International. (AP) TENNIS  Arrese Defeats Lendl  Top-seeded Ivan Lendl was upset by Jordi Arrese of Spain, 6-3, 4-6, 7-5, in a quarterfinal match yesterday at the Estoril Open in Lisbon. Lendl, serving to stay in the match at 5-6 in the third set, made a series of unforced errors and finally lost to Arrese by sending a lob that landed just outside the baseline. Arrese will be part of an all-Spanish semifinal that includes the defending champion, Sergi Bruguera; Emilio Sanchez and Carlos Costa. (AP) SWIMMING  World Record Set  Kieren Perkins of Australia set a world record for the men's 400 meters freestyle last night at the Australian national swimming championships in Canberra, Australia. Perkins was timed in 3 minutes 46.47 seconds in the Australian Institute of Sport pool, shaving 0.48 seconds off the record set by Uwe Dassler, representing East Germany, at the 1988 Seoul Olympics. Perkins also holds the world 800-meter record and the world 1,500-meter short-course record. (AP) BOWLING  Ferraro Seeded First  Dave Ferraro of Kingston, N.Y., grabbed the top spot for today's nationally televised stepladder finals of the Professional Bowlers Association Toyota Open in Sayville, L.I. He knocked down 10,029 pins. Danny Wiseman of Baltimore earned the second-seeded position with 9,990 pins. Del Ballard Jr., the defending champion from Richardson, Tex., totaled 9,987 pins to qualifying in the third spot. In fourth was Tom Baker of Buffalo (9,972) and fifth was Philip Ringener of Big Spring, Tex. (9,945).(AP) We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 4, 1992, on Page 1001036 of the National edition with the headline: RESULTS PLUS.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »