Believe it or not, Chad Ochocinco is still a member of the Patriots. The Associated Press took a look at his odd and unproductive season in New England: “It’s been a learning experience; that’s what this has been. This had been one of the most humbling experiences I’ve ever been in,” he said Thursday as he prepared for the Feb. 5 game against the New York Giants. “I’m happy, but the competitive side of me is (angry),” he said. “Does that make sense?” Little about Ochocinco’s time in New England does. Ochocinco’s teammates seem pleased with him, and Bill Belichick has had no complaints. Ochocinco’s work ethic and professionalism have been praised. He just doesn’t play much. He had 15 receptions and one touchdown this season. He has also been inordinately quiet, trying to fit in with the Patriots’ style. He did make a little news this week, though. While watching President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address on Tuesday night, Ochocinco began tweeting about the “guy over Obama’s left shoulder (who) doesn’t seem very happy.” It was John Boehner, the speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives, who responded and made plans for a meeting with Ochocinco after the Patriots’ season is over. 
Ochocinco sent thisÂ message to Boehner: @SpeakerBoehner Just read some of your tweets and you seem pretty angry kind sir. I can see you on tv but you’re not smiling. Hope you’re ok The Atlantic: Both men have a Cincinnati connection: Ochocinco used to be a star with the NFL’s Bengals, while Boehner represents a suburban district in Congress. ESPN.com: Apparently still concerned Wednesday, Ochocinco asked Boehner in another message if he was in better spirits, and told him: “If all else seems bad in life, just remember I love you kind sir.” Boehner thanked Ochocinco in a tweet and wished him good luck in the Super Bowl. “We’ll see you in the playoffs next year,” Boehner added, using “Bengals” and their fans’ cheer “WhoDey” to tag his response on Twitter. Extra point If Tom Brady pays half as much attention to Ochocinco as Boehner did — going against the season trend — maybe Ochocinco will have a Super Bowl catch to remember the season by. The New York Times will report on the Giants and Jets throughout the season. You can also find links to coverage from around the league, tips for your fantasy football team and discussion with other football fans. 
			The content on the Fifth Down blog is moving to the pro football page on nytimes.com.Read more… 
			The Jets receiver became a critic of the game and its role in American society. But the decision to walk away was also personal.Read more… 
			John Idzik, the general manager of the Jets, will not retain Scott Cohen, the assistant general manager. Ari Nissim, another high-ranking executive, also will depart.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, answers questions from readers.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, will answer questions from readers.Read more… Follow Advertisement