Advertisement By FILIP BONDY and  The shot was an afterthought. Claude Vilgrain, the Devils left wing, wound up along the right boards early in the second period, firing an unscreened slap shot in the general direction of the Ranger net. No real threat intended. Back in November or December, before a torn thigh muscle and a mended labor rift interrupted his season, such a sling would not have caused a single bead of sweat on the masked brow of Ranger goaltender Mike Richter. Now, however, events and angles had conspired against him. Richter, rusty from disuse and already shaken by two first-period goals, kicked out his leg. Vilgrain's shot bounced backward off Richter's stick, over the line. The Rangers were down by two goals, too far down. They were on their way to a 3-1 loss to the Devils in the third game of a Patrick Division semifinal series that finds them two defeats from an epic playoff embarrassment -- even by their historic standards. 'It Was a Terrible Goal' "I lost sight of that shot, it was a terrible goal," Richter said. "I look at that as very significant. It was not much of a game to redeem yourself. You can't let that happen to you in a playoff game." Advertisement Vilgrain's goal was only one in a series of early-game problems tonight for Richter, who was beaten by three of the Devils' first seven shots and heard little but sarcastic cheers after that. Richter faced only 18 shots all night and appeared to settle down along the way. But none of his chances would be as defining as Vilgrain's lonely shot from the right side. Advertisement "I had a couple good chances early, and I didn't answer them," Richter said. Richter had been given this opportunity at winning back his starting playoff job from John Vanbiesbrouck, and it had not happened. He had hurt the Ranger cause early. Chris Terreri, in sharp contrast, turned aside one dangerous chance after another for the Devils with silky efficiency. Terreri, with 34 saves, was the difference. He was stealing the series. "The only place they really beat us," Richter said, "was in goal." Few Shots but Two Goals Richter looked shaky at the start, struggling with relatively easy puckhandling assignments and allowing two goals on just six shots on net by the Devils in the first period. Stephane Richer beat him low, between the pads, with a tough wrist shot at 8 minutes 50 seconds. Then Richter failed to control a rebound on a shot by Peter Stastny that was knocked from midair into the goal by Scott Stevens.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The goal by Stevens was reviewed for five minutes for possible interference or a high stick. The replay only substantiated the score, showing Richter tumbling backward into his own net chasing after Stevens's deflection. The decision to start Richter tonight was expected, but a substantial gamble by Coach Roger Neilson. Richter had played in just one game since the start of the National Hockey League strike, and had lost his last three starts since March 24. Unpleasant Time in Playoffs He also had limited, unpleasant experiences in the Stanley Cup playoffs. After tonight's defeat, Richter had played in six playoff games, five of them losses. Now, Neilson figures to come back with Vanbiesbrouck on Saturday night. Vanbiesbrouck lost in Game 2 Tuesday night, 7-3, but has a 9-1-1 mark in his last 11. The Rangers clearly need a major breakthrough against Terreri, or they will face another long summer. "We have to do everything better," Mark Messier said. "Everything. Obviously, this is going to be a huge game for us." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 24, 1992, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; Horrible Timing for Richter's Bad Night.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »