Advertisement By MALCOLM MORAN With the final seconds ticking down and their season waiting to be defined, the Villanova Wildcats were close enough to a tie score to touch the possibility again and again and again and again. At least four times in a basketball eternity, Wildcat hands strained upward in an unsuccessful attempt to tip in a rebound, tie the game with Syracuse and extend their stay in the Big East tournament. But Syracuse overcame that succession of taps -- and two regular-season losses to Villanova -- to defeat the Wildcats, 55-52, yesterday afternoon at Madison Square Garden. The fifth-seeded Orangemen (19-9) advanced to a semifinal game against Seton Hall at 1:30 this afternoon. Villanova (14-14) has likely seen the end of its hope to reach the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament for a 10th time in 12 seasons. Advertisement Seventeen hours after Pittsburgh's shocking opening-round loss to Miami had apparently put an end to the Panthers' hopes for an N.C.A.A. bid, another borderline Big East team seemed resigned to a spot in the National Invitation Tournament. 'Fighting for Their Life' Advertisement "I'm not optimistic at all," Villanova Coach Rollie Massimino said about the N.C.A.A. event. "I felt we had to win this game today. It really all depends on what falls." To cling to that hope, the Wildcats needed only one of those taps to drop. "It seemed like there were about 20 hands around the rim," said Marc Dowdell, the senior Villanova forward who took eight of his nine rebounds on the offensive end. "I don't know how it didn't go through the hole." "They knew if we got the ball the game was over," said Dave Johnson, the Syracuse swingman who carried the Orangemen with 27 points. "They were just fighting for their life. Their season, really." Five days after Syracuse's humiliating 20-point loss to the Wildcats at the Carrier Dome, Johnson's consistency rescued the Orangemen. His 9-of-14 shooting included 6 of 8 3-point shots. His teammates made only 9 of 29 attempts, including 1 of 14 from 3-point range.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Johnson had shot a combined 4 for 28 in the two regular-season losses to Villanova. He missed all nine 3-point shots in those two games and scored a total of 17 points. Yesterday, Johnson's final 3-pointer, a falling-down shot with 7:03 to go, gave the Orangemen a 44-37 lead on the way to their 10-point lead. But Syracuse made only one field goal in the final 5:15 and was outscored, 13-4, in a 4:25 stretch that gave Villanova its chance. With 24.8 seconds to go, Lance Miller, who made only 4 of 16 shots and scored 11 points, was fouled as he made a 7-foot jumper in the lane. Miller's foul shot brought the Wildcats to 53-52. Adrian Autry, a Syracuse sophomore, made a foul shot 2.4 seconds later, but his second try rolled off the rim to the left with 22 seconds to play. After a Villanova timeout with 16 seconds to go, Miller penetrated the lane, found an opening and took the shot. "I thought it was in," Miller said, but his miss only started Villanova's agony. Advertisement Dowdell counted three of the chances, plus a fourth tip that failed to reach the rim. Lawrence Moten, the Syracuse freshman who was held to 9 points on 3-of-10 shooting, deflected one of Dowdell's taps. The rest somehow stayed out on their own. Finally, Johnson found a rebound, was fouled with 3.4 seconds left and made one of two shots. Miller moved quickly enough to create one last 3-point attempt, but Villanova's best chances had already come and gone. Villanova's six-game winning streak was gone, too. "All that really doesn't matter after today's game," Miller said. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 14, 1992, on Page 1001035 of the National edition with the headline: COLLEGE BASKETBALL; Hopes Slip Through Wildcats' Fingers.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »