VANCOUVER, British Columbia — Ryan Dickinson, a 20-year-old from suburban Coquitlam, accepted a plea bargain Friday in Vancouver Provincial Court and will be sentenced Feb. 7. His charges include participating in the June 15 riot after the Canucks lost Game 7 of the Stanley Cup finals and breach of recognizance. He has been in jail since his arrest last month for violating a court-ordered curfew connected with a previous assault charge. Seven months ago, a riot broke out outside Rogers Arena and spread through much of downtown after the Bruins beat the Canucks, 4-0, to win their first Stanley Cup title since 1972. The disturbances left more than 150 people injured and some $5 million in property damage. But until Friday, no one in Vancouver faced sentencing, even though the riot was documented in detail on social media, as it happened and afterward. One hundred seventeen people were arrested during the riot, with several facing multiple charges.  The only previous conviction tied to the riot was in suburban Surrey, where the Royal Canadian Mounted Police found a teenager in possession of a stolen bathing suit that was procured during the riots. He was not convicted of actually being at the riot and received an absolute discharge, avoiding jail time. Slap Shot, the New York Times hockey blog, reports on the Rangers, the National Hockey League and anything that glides quickly across a frozen surface anywhere on the globe, from the snowy prairies of Saskatchewan to the frigid steppes of Russia and beyond, like, say, Phoenix.
 
			Thank you for visiting Slap Shot. This blog’s regular features, including live game analysis, reader discussion, news and notes from Jeff Z. Klein and others, can now be found on the Hockey section front.Read more… 
			With the 65th overall pick, the Rangers chose Adam Tambellini, a 6-foot-2 center whose father and brother each played for the Islanders. Read more… 
			The Devils took Anthony Brodeur, an 18-year-old goalie, with the 208th pick of the 211-pick draft, sending their seventh-round pick in 2015 to the Kings in exchange for the chance to pick Brodeur. Read more… 
			The Islanders sent Nino Niederreiter to Minnesota for Cal Clutterbuck, and took defenseman Ryan Pulock with the 15th over all pick in Sunday’s N.H.L. draft.Read more… 
			The Rangers announced Friday that they would not use their remaining compliance buyout this summer, ensuring that Brad Richards will return to the team for at least one more season.Read more… Follow Advertisement