Advertisement  SKIING  Up in the Aerials Eric Bergoust of Missoula, Mont., tightened the battle for an Olympic berth yesterday by winning his first World Cup aerials event. Bergoust compiled 230.72 points for his two aerials at Breckenridge Ski Area in Colorado to top Didier Meda of France, who had 228.18. Third was Kris Feddersen of Breckenridge with 223.67, followed by Trace Worthington of Plymouth, Minn. Bergoust is vying for one of the two aerialist berths with Fedderson and Worthington. (AP) Tomba Is on Target: Alberto Tomba of Italy won a slalom yesterday in Kitzbuhel, Austria, for his 25th World Cup victory. Patrice Bianchi of France was second, followed by Armin Bittner of Germany, Hubert Strolz of Austria and Paul Accola of Switzerland. (AP)  Nordic Combined to Frenchman: Fabrice Guy of France won his fourth World Cup Nordic combined of the season. Guy finished fifth in the 15-kilometer cross-country race in Murau, Austria, easily winning the combined after his third-place finish in the ski jump. Klaus Sulzenbacher of Austria was second and countryman Klaus Ofner was third. (AP) Austrians Dominate: Andreas Felder finished first as his Austrian team took four of the top five places in individual World Cup ski jumping in Engelberg, Switzerland. Stefan Zuend of Switzerland was second. Werner Rathmayr of Austria was third.(AP) SPEED SKATING Dutchmen Are Flying Falko Zandstra of the Netherlands won the men's European championship yesterday by winning the key 1,500-meter event. Zandstra, 20, beat the all-around champion, Johann-Olav Koss of Norway, and capped a blazing performance by the Dutch men's team, which also took the third, fifth and sixth places. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 20, 1992, on Page C00006 of the National edition with the headline: Results Plus.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »