Advertisement  A group called the National Summit on Racism in Sports and the Media will be using the Super Bowl to try and focus attention on attempts to eliminate American Indian mascots and symbols from sports. The group will conduct a seminar on racism in sports here on Thursday and Friday, and will picket the National Football League Alumni player-of-the-year awards dinner Friday night outside the hotel headquarters for the Super Bowl. On Sunday, the day of the game, the group plans to demonstrate outside the Metrodome. One of the participants in this year's Super Bowl is the Washington Redskins. During the 1991 National League playoffs, and again in the World Series, protests arose against the actions of Atlanta Braves fans, who were using a "tomahawk chop" and a chant to urge on their team. American Indian groups, and others, said the actions of the fans were offensive and disrespectful. Cold Enough for You? Perhaps recalling the chilly experience of Super Bowl XVI in Detroit in January 1982, a few people cringed when Minneapolis was designated as the city to play host to Super Bowl XXVI in 1992. Advertisement A snowstorm on the day of the game and the distance of the Pontiac Silverdome from many major hotels made the 1982 game a logistical nightmare for organizers. But this Super Bowl should go more smoothly.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. For one thing, fans can wander around downtown without ever going outside thanks to a 34-block indoor skywalk system. The two teams will practice indoors. And for fans who arrive at the gates early on Sunday, heated tents will be set up around the Metrodome. Advertisement The forecast for the week is for highs in the mid-30's and lows in the upper teens, with a chance of snow flurries. Normally, temperatures in January in Minneapolis hover much closer to zero. One thing is certain: During the Super Bowl, the temperature will be about 72 degrees inside the Metrodome. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 21, 1992, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: SUPER BOWL XXVI NOTEBOOK; The Protest That Won't Go Away.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »