Advertisement By RICHARD SANDOMIR There aren't enough icy and snowy events to fill every minute of the 116 hours CBS has set aside for the Winter Olympics, so Jim Nantz, the weekend daytime host, unveiled a new event yesterday: the Turnaway. The Turnaway may one day turn into a lunatic bobsled variation ("Herschel, remember, the best brakemen turn away at the meanest turn"). But this Turnaway was CBS's way to report on the winner of the men's downhill, an event that was not shown in a taped package until prime time last night, even though it was run early enough to be put into CBS's morning or afternoon programs. So, Nantz said, if you don't want to look at the screen showing the downhill medalists and want to keep a little suspense in your life, turn away your gaze. We won't utter a word and we'll play Muzak while you evacuate the room. But here are those names. (I shall not divulge the names.) The Turnaway is CBS's acknowledgment that other organizations will report the results of events hours before it shows those events in prime time. A European Olympics raises this dilemma: Because of the six-hour time difference between France and the United States' Eastern time zone here, the bulk of the events are shown on tape and marquee events like downhill skiing are prime-time bound. Why, it would be TV heresy to show downhill to a wee Sunday morning audience. Advertisement But the Nantz Turnaway was a silly ploy, like saying, "We're putting naked bodies on the air in 10 seconds folks, so clear out, if you mind." All of you will turn away, won't you? Advertisement Surely, others will give the results. But maybe some fans chose to avoid any other reports, to preserve the surprise. Then why report on yourself if you chance spoiling it for someone who hasn't heard Nantz's warning and sees from the Turnaway that A. J. Kitt, America's downhill hope, isn't a medalist? (Sorry, I thought you knew by now.) Maybe the downhill Turnaway was CBS's way to test its tenet that results matter less than the pictures. But if people tuned out the downhill last night because the results rendered the pictures pointless, don't expect to see more Turnaways. The Turnaway could have been used effectively for Saturday night's opening cermonies. A graphic could have said: "This is long and strange performance art from the same culture that worships at the altar of St. Jerry Lewis and St. Mickey Rourke." Then, watch everyone run and hide.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The opening ceremonies made me pine for the Super Bowl halftime. Not that it was CBS's fault. But the gushing emotion from the prime-time hosts, Tim McCarver and Paula Zahn, made one wonder if they were gamely trying to maintain their enthusiasm in their first night on the job or if they saw something we didn't. If nothing else, those cymbal-playing human mobiles, et al, made an unusual spectacle. But CBS's coverage was distant and did not convey a you-are-there intimacy. I left watching the ceremonies with this memorable exchange between McCarver and Zahn: "There go the windsocks," said Zahn. "That's a major windsock," said McCarver. (CBS said Saturday's opening ceremonies recorded a 15.9 preliminary overnight rating from 25 markets, compared with ABC's 14.4 rating overnight for the opener of the 1988 Calgary Winter Olympics, which was an afternoon event.) The Turnaway inadvertently became a theme for CBS's early coverage, but now for a few kind words: The pictures are wonderful. The footage of sliders hurtling along the luge course were stirring. Best of all is Charles Kuralt. It's not enough to let him do features. Let him do everything. Host. Play-by-play. Analysis. Remember, this is a    taped    Olympics. Put Sir Charles in "On the Road" RV and let him go everywhere. His essay on mountains would have made Montaigne sit up and plagiarize. Back to the Turnaway. Duncan Kennedy, America's hope for a medal in luge, was shown yesterday ready to make his run down the icy course. What we got was a feature on Kennedy. Stop the teasing. If you show him about to luge, let him luge. Give us action when action is necessary, not a canned feature. Later, Nantz and a co-host, Andrea Joyce, came on for the afternoon show saying that the United States and Italian hockey teams were ready to play. Maybe they were Zamboni-ing the ice, so CBS went to commercials. Back live, hockey play-by-player Mike Emrick came on for 10 seconds before heading off to more ads. Advertisement If the early going is a portent of the future, be prepared for frequent Turnaways. There are so many features and commercial breaks that CBS risks that viewers will share a moment with the world -- with someone else. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 10, 1992, on Page C00006 of the National edition with the headline: ALBERTVILLE: TV SPORTS; Where to Turn as Winter Games Get Hot.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »