Advertisement By MICHAEL MARTINEZ and  The morning sun had already climbed to its peak when Bill Shoemaker emerged from his barn office at Hollywood Park and began rolling down the bumpy dirt road that leads to the track. The day was set in full motion -- there were horses and hot-walkers all around -- and Shoemaker seemed to find a serenity in simply being here. He had made this trip many times before, from the stables to the track to watch another of his thoroughbreds gallop easily around the track, but it must seem special now. He can smell the crisp dawn air, feel the hurried activity around him, hear the workers calling out to one another. It is another wonderful day in the new life of Bill Shoemaker, left paralyzed from the chest down since last April 8, when the car he was driving tumbled down a steep embankment. He is glad to be alive. No Anger or Pity There is neither anger nor self-pity in the 60-year-old former jockey, who resumed his career as a trainer two months ago after being released from a Colorado hospital. Without a word, he accepted his condition, which left him unable to perform even the simplest of tasks. Advertisement He also hasn't abandoned hope in a partial recovery. "You can't do anything about it," he said. "You've got to accept it and go on. But I believe I'm going to get it back anyway. It'll take a while, maybe a year, maybe two. Who knows?" Advertisement For now, Shoemaker is confined to a world of wheelchairs, ramps and 24-hour-a-day help. But the worst is over. He, his wife, Cindy, and their 11-year-old daughter, Amanda, somehow survived the months of uncertainty, recovery and rehabilitation. From Disaster Comes Strength "It tested the length and breadth of all our relationships: husband to wife, father to mother, father to daughter, mother to daughter," Cindy Shoemaker said. "I'm very proud to say that the strength was all there. We've come through it tighter and stronger than ever before." Life goes on for Shoemaker, although not quite so easily as before. He cannot answer the phone, feed himself or drive to the track, but he is always there each morning by 6:15. He conducts daily business as usual, then observes his horses as his assistant trainer, Paddy Gallagher, stands beside him with a stopwatch. He is usually finished before 10. A driver returns him to his San Marino home, not far from Santa Anita. "He can't ride anymore," Gallagher said, "but other than that, his mind and his eye for horses is exactly the same as it was. He watches them work and knows just what they're doing." Gary Stevens, a friend and jockey who has ridden for Shoemaker, said, "He's still very sharp about the industry, and his record proves that the accident hasn't affected his ability to train race horses. He just has to go about it in a different way." Stellar Record as a Rider In a career that spanned four decades, Shoemaker rode in more than 40,000 races and won a record 8,833 of them. His purses, totaling more than $123 million, included four Kentucky Derby victories, including his last, at age 54, aboard Ferdinand in the 1986 Derby. "I had a good riding career," he said, "although I probably went a little longer than I should have. But then I wouldn't have had that last Derby winner, either." Advertisement Along the way, there were few injuries. The only serious mishap occurred in 1969, when a horse flipped over backward in the walking ring and left Shoemaker with a broken pelvis and a ruptured spleen. But he kept riding. After his last race as a jockey, in February 1990, Shoemaker made the transition to trainer one month later. His stable quickly swelled to some 40 horses, and he was regarded within the sport as adept at judging and preparing them. Still Has Horse Sense "Even though he'd been at it just a couple of years," said jockey Eddie Delahoussaye, "he was still a real good trainer. He has a good common sense with horses. He's gentle with them." Jockeys acknowledge that injuries on the track are an occupational hazard, but it seemed almost ironic that Shoemaker -- hurt rarely by a mount -- should wind up in a wheelchair after he climbed into his car one night last April. Later, when he met the news media for the first time after coming home, he said he could still remember each moment vividly. He was driving home after playing golf with Don Pierce, a former jockey and current trainer, when his car swerved suddenly and rolled nearly 50 feet down an embankment. Although a blood test showed that Shoemaker had an alcohol level above the legal limit, he said he was not drunk. He said that he and Pierce had a couple of beers, which they usually did after playing, but that the accident occurred when he leaned over to answer his car phone.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Shoemaker spent several months in several hospitals, but at soon as he was able to speak, he resumed contact with his assistants. He and Gallagher spoke daily about their horses, and R. D. Hubbard, the president of Hollywood Park, had a special satellite dish hooked into Shoemaker's Colorado hospital room so that he could monitor the races. 'Like Being in Jail' It helped, but Shoemaker also wanted desperately to get out. "When you're in the hospital for six months," he said, "it's like being in jail." Everyone carried on. The day after the accident, one of his horses, Shirkee, won at Santa Anita. In October, a month after he returned home and went back to work, another also won. What seemed to be a bigger problem was the awkwardness of being around friends who weren't certain how to treat him. Advertisement "They didn't know how to act or what to say," he remembered. "I just told them that I'm the same guy who can't walk or move my arms." Yet for his closest friends at the track, it remained difficult. "If I said it wasn't, I'd be lying," said Delahoussaye, who has known Shoemaker for 13 years. "But I also knew that he wouldn't want to be treated any differently than before. Sure, it hurts to see him not moving around, but there's nothing we can do about it. And if he didn't want to be here, he wouldn't be here. But he's a fighter." Shoemaker apparently still hasn't given up. He has experienced some muscle movement in his left bicep and his right wrist, so there is hope that he might be able to regain the use of his arms. But there are no promises from the doctors. "They don't say anything," Cindy Shoemaker said. "They don't have a crystal ball. His doctors would love nothing more than to tell Bill, 'Hang in there because in six months you're going to walk again.' They can't. It's just a very, very slim possibility. One Step at a Time> "But for a man whose body should be completely stiff, we're very proud of it. He's taken a big step. And we're not without hope. You only lose hope when you give up." They have never given up, not the Shoemakers and not those around them. Paddy Gallagher, walking from the track to the barn after Shoemaker had gone home, said he always believed Shoemaker would come back, even in the darkest days. "I don't think anyone in the barn thought any different," Gallagher recalled. "Just from talking to him in the hospital, we knew." And now that he is home, Shoemaker can appreciate everything around him: the sights and smells and the fresh morning air. Advertisement "It's nice to have something to come and do," he said of his work. "A lot of people in my condition don't have anything, so they hang around the house and worry about what's wrong with them." The most difficult days are behind them, Cindy Shoemaker said. Even their daughter Amanda accepted things as they were, never questioning why it had to happen. "If she had been a weak person, crying all the time, it would have been difficult," Cindy said. "But she's looked at it the same way I have. She has kept her total devotion to her father, and we're both so grateful just to have him with us. "Our life is going on, but the tune is a little different." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 25, 1991, on Page 1001041 of the National edition with the headline: HORSE RACING; Keeping the Faith by Staying on Track.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »