Advertisement By HARVEY ARATONJUNE 23, 2014
 WIMBLEDON, England —  The pity of it all for Sloane Stephens is that for one seemingly momentum-changing game, she played like a fierce and resolute survivor. Dangling on the edge of elimination, she saved five match points against Maria Kirilenko to force a second-set tiebreaker, where she proceeded to hold double set point. Her inspiration was fleeting. Before it could really begin, Stephens’s Wimbledon was ending. She became the tournament’s first American casualty, though it would have been a stretch to call Kirilenko’s 6-2, 7-6 (6) victory over the 18th-seeded Stephens a big upset. Stephens, a 2013 quarterfinalist, did not have the luck of the draw. Kirilenko, a 27-year-old Russian, was ranked 10th a year ago before an injury-induced slide. She is a steady ball-striker, patient in long exchanges but potent when her opponent makes mistakes. Stephens, strangely listless, picked a bad time to make way too many on Court 18. “She’s a good grass-court player,” Stephens said, crediting Kirilenko instead of blaming herself. “She just played really consistent. Tough day for me.” Advertisement On the men’s side, it was homecoming day for Andy Murray as he returned to Centre Court — where he broke a 77-year men’s title drought for Britain last year — to a standing ovation. With his new coach, Amélie Mauresmo, watching from the players’ box, Murray made short work of Belgium’s David Goffin, 6-1, 6-4, 7-5. Advertisement Top-seeded Novak Djokovic handled Andrey Golubev of Kazakhstan, 6-0, 6-1, 6-4, and the 18th-seeded Spaniard Fernando Verdasco was beaten by Marinko Matosevic of Australia, 6-4, 4-6, 6-4, 6-2. While the supposed up-and-comer Stephens could not hold on, 34-year-old Venus Williams, playing more for the love of the game than a serious chance at reclaiming a title she has won five times, battled her way into the second round by ousting María-Teresa Torró-Flor of Spain, 6-4, 4-6, 6-2. “I have nothing to hide, nothing to prove, nothing to lose,” Williams said, brushing off questions about Sjogren’s syndrome, a disorder she has battled that causes fatigue. “I’m trying to get the best out of myself — that’s all I can ask.” Another American, 22-year-old Coco Vandeweghe, weathered a challenging first round when — on her 13th match point — she benefited from a double fault by Spain’s Garbiñe Muguruza, the second-round conqueror of Serena Williams at the French Open. Vandeweghe escaped with a 6-3, 3-6, 7-5 decision over Muguruza, the 27th seed. If grit was the overriding theme for Venus Williams and for Vandeweghe, Stephens needed more. Her departure was surprising because she has saved her best tennis for premier events, raising the notion that she was not far off from winning one. In 2013, she reached the Australian Open semifinals, defeating Serena Williams in the quarterfinals. Until Monday, she had a streak of making at least the fourth round in six straight Grand Slam events. “It feels like the end of the world now, but fortunately, it’s not,” she said. With American tennis already saddled with low expectations for its men’s players, Stephens’s defeat was a blow to those people who hope that a crop of young United States women’s players will make a “we got next” statement, foretelling successors of some sort to the top-seeded Serena Williams. Player breakthroughs in women’s tennis have historically come sooner rather than later. Serena Williams won the United States Open at 17, Venus Williams at 19. Their talent was off the charts. Stephens has at times been very good, but, as she put it, “There are a lot of people between my ranking now and the No. 1 player in the world.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. She is only 21, her game open to improvement, but she may already be fading as the front-runner of a group that includes Madison Keys and Taylor Townsend. Advertisement Keys and Vandeweghe captured pre-Wimbledon titles, prompting the wry Stephens commentary, “Add them to the list of people who have won a tournament before me.” That has been the mystery around Stephens, her inability to win any tournament despite her good work at the majors. “It was never, I’m just going to focus doing well at the Grand Slams,” she said. “That’s why I never had a real reason for why I had so much success. It just happened that way. Maybe in the next tournament that I play, I’ll win it. Then I’ll be, like, remember when we were talking at Wimbledon?” Stephens has a charming air, an easy way with words. Asked if she could excuse the defeat to a late-night viewing of the United States’ World Cup match with Portugal on Sunday night, she said: “Someone scored in the last three seconds, and it wasn’t the U.S., so that’s what I do know.” She also knew she had blown a glorious chance to redirect her match after saving the five match points to force the tiebreaker. Stephens earned an early minibreak in the tiebreaker with a forehand winner and stretched it out to 6-4. On her first set point, she smacked a first serve into Kirilenko’s body that the Russian played back defensively and short. “I hit a forehand crosscourt, and she was standing right there,” Stephens said. Anywhere else, the set would have been hers. Instead, Kirilenko blocked back the return and won the point with a lob. Before Stephens could recover, she had sent a backhand wide and missed a lunging forehand volley and was on her way to a lengthy break until hardcourts season. Before departing, she spoke of dealing with adversity. “So many things that happen that you have to just kind of deal with,” Stephens said. She added, “I could name you a whole bunch of things, but you wouldn’t have enough time.” She was smiling again, putting the best face on her bitter pill and unlucky draw. Here at Wimbledon, it will be left to her young American compatriots to say something, anything, about the future beyond Serena Williams. A version of this article appears in print on June 24, 2014, on Page B11 of the New York edition with the headline: Stephens Loses Match, and Could Lose Ground to Other U.S. Phenoms.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »