Advertisement By ROB HUGHESJUNE 11, 2014
 Vicente del Bosque and Andrés Iniesta are the quiet superstars of a global game. Del Bosque coached the Spaniards when they won the last World Cup and when they followed that up with the 2012 European Championship. Iniesta scored the goal that settled the 2010 World Cup final against the Netherlands in Johannesburg, and he was the player of the Euro 2012 rout of Italy in Kiev. Imagine the decibels from certain other coaches or prima donna performers had they achieved even one of those triumphs. That is not del Bosque’s way, nor Iniesta’s. They share the opinion that sports is best spoken in the stadium: You strive, you win, and you dust yourself off to go again when called upon. “If I had to describe myself — and it’s not an easy task — I would say that my style is based on human values and sharing,” del Bosque said when interviewed by the UEFA director of coaching, Andy Roxburgh, at a conference for the 53 European national soccer associations. “A coach can be a good talker, but what he says is more important than how much he says. If you talk, you need to have convincing arguments.” Advertisement The avuncular del Bosque has plenty of those. He inherited the finest crop of players in his country’s history. It was another man’s team, but more than that it was a group of players who had been winning world titles together since they were teenagers, all coached to a pattern of play that remains evident in the senior world and European champion squad today. Advertisement Del Bosque is like an uncle to these players, disciplined and dispassionate when he needs to be in terms of putting new players into the group. But as Iniesta or any of the group’s established members would say, they expect, and get, straight — if quiet — instruction from the head coach. Spain has barely been mentioned among the favorites to win the World Cup that begins this week in Brazil. That in part reflects the fact that tournaments in the Americas have, thus far, been won exclusively by South American nations. Spain is Mediterranean mild; parts of Brazil are tropical and torrid. 
The best soccer players in the world are converging in Brazil and The New York Times has you covered. We'll have a regular digest of news, highlights and context from Times reporters and editors.
 Now that the bulk of world class players migrate to play their club soccer in Europe, however, it is arguable that the advantages of climate are evened out somewhat. More important is the ambience among the players, and not only the 11 who take the field each game but also those who sit and wait on the bench. Managing the group, on the road for 50 days, counting the preparation and the days and nights living in hotels or traveling on airplanes, is central. “That’s right,” del Bosque said in the UEFA interview, “50 days is a long time. We were fortunate enough to have no hiccups, no problems, no conflicts. It says everything about a group of real sportsmen with very generous attitudes.” Good harmony and team spirit is easy enough when the team is winning, but that wasn’t the case for Spain in South Africa four years ago. Spain lost its opening group game of the 2010 event, 0-1, to Switzerland. The impact of this, the first defeat (and the only tournament loss at this level in del Bosque’s six-year, 86-game tenure) was a shock to the system. The coach reacted, not surprisingly, quietly and on a player-by-player basis. It was not a time to panic. No time for anyone to point the finger of blame. The main thing was to remain positive, to believe in themselves, to dispel together the myth that a World Cup cannot be won on the opening night but it can be lost. Advertisement This was when del Bosque exercised his discretion that what is said in the locker room has to be fair and mindful of the fact that every man on the team is what the coach calls “his own universe.” This coach, fired in 2003 by Real Madrid after winning the Champions League because he did not convince the president that he conveyed the right intensity to the team, has shared extraordinary success, but also some harrowing personal losses, with the players. Sign up for a daily recap of highlights from the 2014 World Cup. There were not many losses on the field. Del Bosque’s team has lost only three competition games: against the Swiss in the 2010 World Cup; a Confederations Cup semifinal against the United States in 2009; and the 2013 Confederations Cup final against Brazil in Rio de Janeiro’s famed Maracanã Stadium in July. But the Spanish resolve has been tested in other ways. To win and then win again makes demands on players, knowing as they do that every opponent would want to be the one to take this scalp. To keep working and practicing even with all the rewards and acclaim tests their desire, year after year.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But something else, shared on a personal level by the Barcelona and the Atlético and Real Madrid players — 14 of the 23 Spaniards going to Brazil are from those rival Liga teams — shook them in the early months of this year. First, Luis Aragonés, the fiery coach who preceded del Bosque, died at the age of 75 in February. It was Aragonés who had cajoled, coached and at times demonically driven the Spanish players to believe their time had come. With him, they had won the Euro 2008 championship. The day after that victory over Germany, Aragonés carried out his plan to leave the team. Del Bosque was his successor, with the task not unlike that of a doctor: Make sure the team is in good health and do no harm by tinkering unnecessarily. A month after Aragonés’s funeral, the seven Barça players in the national team faced another death: Tito Vilanova, the young coach who had brought many of them through the youth ranks, died of throat cancer. The players would not be human if the loss of these two mentors did not affect them. To get his team together for the World Cup, del Bosque, meanwhile, has had to contend with a long wait until the European season was over. The excellence of Spanish soccer made it a prolonged wait, with Barcelona and Atlético Madrid going head to head until the final game for the Liga title; Atlético and Real Madrid contesting the Champions League final; and Sevilla winning the Europa League title. Winning is never a bad habit, but on this occasion it handicaps Spain by reducing the time for del Bosque’s players to shake off injuries and tiredness before defending their world title. A version of this special report appears in print on June 12, 2014, in The International New York Times.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »