Advertisement By FRANK LITSKY and  The Giants got good news today on many fronts. First, Greg Jackson, the starting strong safety, agreed to a two-year contract and will be on the practice field Monday, two weeks late. Then William Roberts's erratic heartbeat was stabilized by external electronic stimulation, and he will be released Sunday from Morristown (N.J.) Memorial Hospital. Most of the other Giants rode buses to Yale Bowl for a controlled scrimmage against the New England Patriots. The Giants looked good in general, and Jeff Hostetler and Phil Simms looked especially good at quarterback in leading the Giants to a 17-0 victory. Sharing Experience Each of the Giants' four quarterbacks played 12 plays. Simms started and steered the Giants to a 3-0 lead on Matt Bahr's 31-yard field goal. Then Hostetler led a 60-yard scoring drive, capped by Rodney Hampton's 1-yard touchdown run, and two plays later Hostetler's long pass to Mark Ingram became a 56-yard touchdown play. "I thought we moved the ball well," said Coach Ray Handley of the Giants, "and Phil and Jeff threw the ball crisply. Over all, I'm pleased. It was a good evaluation for us. We did some good things in the pass rush and Kanavis McGhee and Corey Miller got a good push there, but the pass rush has to get better." Advertisement The pass rush and the rest of the defense did well against the overmatched Patriots. The Giants recorded seven sacks -- two by Keith Hamilton and one each by McGhee, Mike Fox, Lubo Zizakovic, John Washington and Dennis Tripp. Everson Walls made an end-zone interception. Advertisement The Giants allowed only 149 yards in 48 plays (the Giants' offense made 307 yards), and the Patriots' only scoring opportunity ended when Charlie Baumann's 32-yard field-goal attempt sailed wide right. The crowd of 12,500 was strongly pro-Giants and pro-Simms. There were cheers for Simms from the moment he walked onto the field for warmups, and there were many boos for Hostetler when he entered the scrimmage. But Hostetler, who won the starting job from Simms last year, was highly efficient, and so were the Giants' other offensive starters. In a five-play sequence, Hostetler passed 12 yards to Stephen Baker and 13 to Ingram, Hampton ran for 13 yards, Hostetler rifled a pass to Howard Cross for 10 yards and Hampton spun outside for 9 yards more. Two plays later, Hampton scored.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In all, Hostetler completed 5 of 7 passes for 95 yards, Simms 4 of 6 for 45, Jeff Carlson 1 of 2 for 40 and Kent Graham 4 of 6 for 49. Hampton (5 for 25 yards) led the Giants' rushers and Ingram (4 for 98 yards) the receivers. The Giants accomplished that without the 29-year-old Roberts, one of the National Football League's premier offensive guards. On Thursday, Roberts's blood pressure rose dramatically and his heart began racing, and he was hospitalized for tests. The diagnosis was atrial fibrilation, an unstable heartbeat. It was corrected today, and he would have been released from the hospital except there was no one was at the training camp in Florham Park, N.J., to look after him. Even though he will return to camp Sunday, he will be limited for a week. The doctors who have been treating him still want to determine the reason his heart started racing. Jackson's contract was believed to call for salaries of $550,000 this year and $600,000 next year plus a $25,000 signing bonus. Last year, his third in pro football, his salary was $180,000. For the first two weeks of camp, Lamar McGriggs, a second-year pro, has started in his place. The Giants now have four veterans unsigned and absent -- outside linebacker Carl Banks, nose tackle Erik Howard, cornerback Mark Collins and offensive lineman Eric Moore. Dave Brown, the Duke quarterback taken in the first round of the supplemental draft, is also unsigned. EXTRA POINTS MYRON GUYTON, a starting safety, suffered back spasms Friday and did not make the trip to the scrimmage. . . . ANTHONY PRIOR, a rookie cornerback, suffered a concussion in 7-on-7 drills against the Patriots. . . . The Giants wasted one scoring opportunity when they were stopped three straight times from the 1-yard line and another when DAVID COOL's 29-yard field-goal attempt went wide to the right. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 2, 1992, on Page 8008008 of the National edition with the headline: FOOTBALL; Giants Look Good From All Angles.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »