In the end, the Super Bowl combatants were not decided by magnificent touchdowns or beautiful interceptions. They were chosen by fate seemingly for their grit and stubbornness, two teams that don’t question themselves when doubt starts raining down on them. They just dig in and refuse to go away. The Giants and Patriots won the two championship games by the flukiest of margins, the Giants twice snatching a slippery football from a flummoxed 49ers punt returner; the Patriots poking away a sure touchdown catch, then watching the Ravens’ kicker shank a sure field goal; and yet neither team could barely be called a fluke. They’ve been there before — against each other in fact — and simply willed their way into the rematch of their lives. The Giants victory in San Francisco was a heart-pounder for the ages, as Mike Vaccaro writes in The Post, with the Giants’ adding a little luck to a lot of magic, Mike Lupica writes in The Daily News. Their hero was, of course, a battered Eli Manning, although he was as much a tackling dummy as a quarterback, and the little-known special teams player Jaquian Williams, who George Willis writes in The Post was ever-so close to giving up on football entirely in college. Manning, he wouldn’t dream of giving up, and when you match his stubbornness with that of Coach Tom Coughlin, writes Don Banks on SI.com, you get a team like the Giants, who were written off more times this season than a bad debt. As Dave D’Alessandro writes in The Newark Star-Ledger, Coughlin might have been one of the few who believed this turnaround was possible, but he counts the most. The Giants know the heartache on the other side of the field too, but the 49ers did not seem to know how to process it. They had orchestrated their own turnaround, from floundering franchise with a revolving door on the coaches’ offices to a magical season under new Coach Jim Harbaugh and an N.F.C. championship game in a crotchety, windy stadium only they could love. In the end, they were stunned by the Giants’ game-winning field goal, writes Gwen Knapp in The San Francisco Chronicle, and totally unable to appreciate everything it took to get there, writes Scott Ostler in The Chronicle. They now have a legendary playoff goat in punt returner Kyle Williams, whose spirits the 49ers were desperately trying to lift after the game, Tim Kawakami writes in the San Jose Mercury News, but a muff and a game-deciding fumble left him the loneliest man in football, Les Carpenter writes on Yahoo.com. In a few days, Williams might realize he has company on the Ravens, with kicker Billy Cundiff and receiver Lee Evans walking away from the A.F.C. championship knowing they had the game in their hands and feet and watched it slip away. Evans had a potential game-winning touchdown swatted from his hands in the final seconds, a final 11 seconds filled with so many mistakes, writes Greg Couch on Foxsports.com. Quarterback Joe Flacco had one of them, undoing his heroic effort to rehabilitate his reputation in the space of one game. Yes, the Ravens overachieved to get here and like the 49ers, had it all washed away in a river of agony, writes Peter Schmuck in The Baltimore Sun. So, the Patriots walked away the lucky ones, despite a decidedly mortal effort by quarterback Tom Brady, writes Bob Ryan in The Boston Globe, and they were quick to suspect Myra Kraft — owner Bob Kraft’s wife who died last year — had played a hand in it, writes Dan Wetzel on Yahoo.com. Even if none of its was pretty, it did bring back memories of the teams early in the Patriots dynasty years, writes Andrew Perloff on SI.com, that won with tough role players. The rest of America might be less than thrilled about this matchup, guaranteeing two weeks of hyperventilating New York vs. Boston hype, writes Steve Buckley in The Boston Herald, but Michael Rosenberg argues on SI.com that it also guarantees a great game. Yes, we will get endless replays of the Manning-to-Tyree magical catch from 2008. And with the little brother quarterback going to play a Super Bowl in big brother’s city — Indianapolis — expect a wall-to-wall Manningfest that you will escape only by leaving the country. But getting there was awfully hard for both teams, who have two weeks to count their bruises and their luck. Follow Leading Off on Twitter: twitter.com/zinsernyt The New York Times will report on the Giants and Jets throughout the season. You can also find links to coverage from around the league, tips for your fantasy football team and discussion with other football fans. 
			The content on the Fifth Down blog is moving to the pro football page on nytimes.com.Read more… 
			The Jets receiver became a critic of the game and its role in American society. But the decision to walk away was also personal.Read more… 
			John Idzik, the general manager of the Jets, will not retain Scott Cohen, the assistant general manager. Ari Nissim, another high-ranking executive, also will depart.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, answers questions from readers.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, will answer questions from readers.Read more… Follow Advertisement