Advertisement By DAVE ANDERSON It's not losing so much as how a team loses. Yesterday the Jets lost grandly while the Giants lost blandly. In his National Football League debut, Browning Nagle, a virtual rookie, dug the Jets out of a 17-0 hole in the glossy Georgia Dome, completing 21 of 37 passes for 366 yards and two touchdowns with no interceptions before the Atlanta Falcons hung on for a 20-17 victory. Suddenly the Jets had introduced a young quarterback for the franchise to hang its future on. But after the Giants' 31-14 loss to the San Francisco 49ers here yesterday, they don't seem to have a future. Not while Ray Handley is their head coach. In his second season as Bill Parcells's successor, Handley promised to create "his team," explaining that he had been merely a "caretaker" of the Super Bowl XXV champions that skidded to an 8-8 record last year. When training camp opened, Handley declared that every position would be "open for competition." But if "his team" doesn't improve soon, the front office should take him at his word: declare the head coach's position open for competition too. Advertisement In retooling the Giants in his image, Handley promoted Jim Fassel to offensive coordinator and hired Rod Rust as defensive coordinator. But yesterday, Fassel's offense sputtered while Rust's defense splintered. Advertisement Even with Phil Simms at quarterback, the Giants seldom fooled the 49er defense. Except for a goal-line stand that kept the Giants alive, trailing by 24-14 midway in the fourth quarter, the defense seldom made the big play. And when the 49ers were in point-blank range, the defense couldn't stop fullback Tom Rathman from catching three short touchdown passes, one from Steve Young, two from Steve Bono. "I didn't think it would be as easy as it was," Rathman said later. "To be able to move the ball the way we did." In their classic rivalry of recent years, it was never that easy for the 49ers to move the ball against the Giants. Maybe the Giants haven't adjusted to Rust's new defensive philosophy, which is supposed to negate the opposing team's primary weapons. But with its best players aging, maybe this Giants defense simply is no longer capable of stopping one of pro football's most sophisticated attacks even without Joe Montana. "There were a lot of things the 49ers did," nose tackle Erik Howard said, "that they shouldn't have been able to do."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. For all the Giants' problems since his appointment, Handley has yet to succeed in solving any of those problems, beginning with his uninspiring manner. Instead of lifting his team, he has let it droop. After yesterday's game, the players dressed and departed quietly. If they were embarrassed, they didn't seem to care. The personality of a pro football team, like teams in most sports, often reflects the personality of its coach; with the Giants a bland coach has created a bland team. Perhaps significantly, Lawrence Taylor ducked out the back door of the locker room rather than discuss the game with the news media. Maybe he knew that if he faced the inquisition, he might blurt out something he would regret. As he did last year when, in a howl of honesty designed to anger his teammates, he accused them of "quitting" in a 30-7 loss in Philadelphia. Advertisement As bland as yesterday's loss was, the Giants' season could get worse before it gets better. Much worse. After next Sunday's visit by the Dallas Cowboys, the Giants go to Chicago for a Monday night game with the Bears, get a bye in the schedule, then go to Los Angeles to oppose the Raiders -- a potential 0-4 start that would destroy whatever slim hopes exist for a berth in the Super Bowl XXVII playoffs. Judging by Handley's history, if Jeff Hostetler is healthy enough to start at quarterback next Sunday against the Cowboys, he will. Even though Simms completed 20 of 37 passes for 223 yards yesterday, the Giants' fourth loss in their last five games under Handley didn't enhance his future as the starter. "I knew if things didn't go well, I could be back on the sidelines," Simms said. "We'll see what they do. Either way they won't be wrong." But with either Hostetler or Simms at quarterback, the Giants aren't likely to silence the "Ray Must Go" chant that erupted during the fourth quarter from what remained of the 74,519 loyalists. That chant will be heard early and often this season. Earlier than the fourth quarter, to be sure, if the Giants don't stop playing so blandly. In their glory seasons, the Giants enjoyed being known as the Big Blue. Now they're the Big Bland. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 7, 1992, on Page 1001027 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; Blandly Handleys' 'Team'.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »