Advertisement By WILLIAM C. RHODEN and  Abram Thwala and Giovanni Pretorius are much more than one nation's two-man boxing team. The South African fighters are a poignant example of a convergence of dreams: Thwala and Pretorius, two fighters, the first 22 years old, the other 20; the first black, the other white; Thwala from a township, Pretorius from the city. They are sons of a country that has been ravaged by conflict and violence. Friday morning they sat side by side in the Olympic Village, both wearing the green and yellow jackets of South Africa's first Olympic team in 32 years. Tonight they were to march with their teammates under a new flag to a new anthem, sharing the satisfaction of a mission accomplished. "This is so much more than I ever expected," said Pretorius, who is from Johannesburg. "This is massive, the greatest feeling to finally be here. In some ways, I still can't believe that I am here." The technical distinction of being the first South African athlete to compete in 32 years belongs to Trevor Strydom, a 34-year-old modern pentathlete who was to fence in the morning. But Thwala and Pretorius, who fight Sunday, will be the most visible of those who begin a new chapter here in South African sports history. Advertisement Thwala, a light flyweight from Seconte in the township of Soweto, will fight Rafael Lozano of Spain. Pretorius, a welterweight, will fight Soren Antman of Sweden. Something to Prove Advertisement "I am proud and very happy to represent South Africa," Thwala said. "I am not nervous, I am not afraid. We just want to show people that South African boxers belong here. We are anxious to show the world what we can do." After being discouraged from competing in the 1964 and 1968 Olympics, South Africa was formally banned from Olympic competition in 1972 because of the country's policies of apartheid. Three decades later, the signature of institutionalized racism is reflected in a delegation that has shrunk from 176 members in 1960 to 97 this year. It is also reflected in the small contingent of nine non-white South Africans, the end result of systematic denial of quality facilities, training, coaches and competitive outlets. Seven of the delegation's non-white athletes will compete in track and field, one in boxing and one in table tennis. Pretorius and Thwala first met at the Transvaal championships two years ago. The province championships are the penultimate step in a process that leads to a berth on the national team. The Transvaal Province is made up of four areas: north, south, east and west. Thwala is from the east, Pretorius boxes out of the more densely populated south. Local areas hold their own championships, with the winners from those participating in the province championships. Those winners go to the South African national championships where they compete against champions from the four South African provinces: Transvaal, Capetown, Natal and the Orange Free State. The winners make up the South African national team. The greatest task confronting South Africa's athletic bodies is insuring that all local areas receive adequate and improved funding. 'For Me, Race Is Nothing' Advertisement "In some places there is a big difference in the quality of facilities, but they are going to begin raising funds to get money to give the black people to make their gyms as good as our gyms," Pretorius said. "Since 1976, the boxing federation has been mixed. So for me race is nothing."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "That other man works just as hard as I do to get here," Pretorius said. "Him being black, me being white doesn't mean anything to me. Especially now, we have to work together." Thwala is the more experienced of the two fighters. Two years after he took up the sport in 1982, he won the first of four gold medals at the South African national junior championships. It was after his third gold medal in 1986 that he began telling his two sisters and older brother of his dream to compete in the Olympics. 'A Dream Come True' "I remember looking at an advertisement for the Olympics and told myself that I wanted to train for those," he said. "That is why being here is like a dream come true." Pretorius has not always dreamed of being in the Olympics. The fireman didn't begin boxing until 1989. "I never knew about the Olympics as a child," he said. "The world championships were the biggest event I knew of." For all the mixed feelings aimed at South Africa, the country is regarded as an untapped pool of athletic talent. "By 1996 I think the South African team will be one of the strongest in the world," Pretorius said. "When we go back home now, we are going to tell them what we've learned here. Soon all sports -- not just boxing -- will be strong. South Africa is a strong country -- especially in sports -- all types of sports." Missed Competition Still, the 32-year absence has had a damaging effect on black and white athletes alike, sapping the self confidence that comes with consistently and successfully competing against the world's best athletes. Advertisement "The first time we fought internationally was in Zambia," Pretorius said of a meet nearly two years ago. "Although it was in South Africa, I know my confidence was not high. "Now I'm 100 percent confident, not like I used to be." For Dan Bushney, the 50-year-old manager and coach of the South African boxing team, the presence of South Africa in the Olympics represents much more than the dream come true. That, he said, was the youthful sentiment of fighters who have not experienced the country's pride in its rich international sports legacy, or felt the depth of sorrow at having it taken away. "I've been in boxing since I was born," he said. "I have seven brothers who boxed, I've been a coach for 30 years. I never thought that I would have this honor." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 26, 1992, on Page 8008006 of the National edition with the headline: BARCELONA; South Africa Marches To an Old Drummer.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »