Advertisement By JOSEPH SIANO The reorganization plan for Indy-car racing that is being offered by Tony George, the Indianapolis Motor Speedway president, at first glance has several promising elements to it. But before his plan can be realized, some hurdles need to be cleared. George's plan will be formally presented to the board of Championship Auto Racing Teams, the main Indy-car sanctioning group, on Nov. 6 in Houston. Simply put, the proposal would create for the sport a board of directors one-quarter the size of the current 24-member CART board, which consists solely of car owners. Besides streamlining the decision-making process in Indy-car racing, the new board would have representatives from three constituencies: race promoters (with George proposing that the Speedway fill this role), car owners and sponsors. It would also divorce the rule-making process from the control of the car owners, a move that would be a big change from CART's current situation, which gives the appearance (sometimes supported by reality) that the rules are made to support the interests of certain car owners. Who Will Be the Boss? One sticking point could be the decision about who fills the role of commissioner. Under George's plan, the commissioner would be one of the voting board members, but would have control of the day-to-day operations of Indy-car racing. Advertisement Both George and A. William Stokkan, the CART chairman and chief executive officer, have been discouraging public discussion about who will fill which spots on the new board. The thinking of the two men, who have held private discussions on the plan for about a year, is that the proposal's chances can only be hurt by a public debate over personnel details before the basic concept can be formally considered by the car owners. Advertisement But sooner or later, the issue of who will be commissioner must be addressed. And for CART's car owners, there doesn't appear to be much leeway on the choice: Stokkan. The man whom Stokkan replaced in 1990, John Frasco, was forced out by dissatisfied car owners. Although Frasco, a lawyer in Michigan, helped CART expand in the 1980's with his talents as a deal-maker, his managerial style was considered remote and uncommunicative, and many car owners thought he wasn't spending enough time at the races.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. To get Frasco out, CART agreed to a multimillion-dollar buyout of his contract, and the organization is still paying it off, an unwanted drain on its finances. When CART hired Stokkan away from Playboy Enterprises, where he was the head of its licensing and merchandising division, it was with the understanding that he would be the head man. If he doesn't get that same role -- the commissioner's post -- in the proposed reorganization, the CART car owners may find themselves having to pay off the rest of Stokkan's contract, which runs until mid-1993. As promoter of Indy-car racing's biggest event, George figures to have a major role in the choice of commissioner. Stokkan has often spoken of his good relations with and respect for George. As for George, his dissatisfaction with CART seems directed at the board's bickering and not at Stokkan. So the two appear capable of working together. Another issue that could bind the gears of compromise is a philosophical one. CART has made a point of trying to bring its events to North America's largest urban markets, figuring that they give the sport and its sponsors the maximum exposure. This helps explain why Indy cars spend a lot of time running into each other and/or concrete barricades on tight, narrow temporary race tracks through the streets of Detroit, Denver, Vancouver and Toronto. Artistically, these races often are failures because with the exception of the street circuit in Long Beach, Calif., the 200-mile-per-hour Indy cars cannot stretch their legs out properly and pass one another easily, as they can on real race tracks, which are farther away from cities. CART contends that these urban expeditions help sell the sport to new sponsors, and that as long as the schedule includes a fair balance of these tracks -- along with permanent ovals and road courses -- the sport is not being compromised. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 27, 1991, on Page 8008009 of the National edition with the headline: AUTO RACING; Can Indy-Car Racing Proposal Make It Around the Roadblocks?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »