Advertisement Supported by Mets 4, Phillies 1 By Tim Rohan PHILADELPHIA — Over the last few weeks, as Chris Young fell into a funk and his average dipped below .200, he was booed mercilessly at Citi Field, and it felt as if the boos grew louder, deeper and meaner each time he walked back to the dugout. For the last few years, well before Young signed with the Mets, home fans had booed the Mets for playing like strangers in their own park. In 2012 and 2013, the Mets scored the fewest runs at home in the National League. This season, they are on pace to do it again. The Mets had researched the issue and evidently still had no answers. This week, they fired the hitting coach Dave Hudgens, who then went on a news media tour and suggested the booing had affected the players, causing them to press. The team had hit fine on the road in recent years, he pointed out.  Now, as the Mets embarked on a stretch in which they were scheduled to play 25 of their next 33 games on the road, they had a chance to escape the tension building in New York, improve their flat-footed offense and maybe, finally, build some confidence and momentum. “Gives you some time to yourself,” Young said, “to go out and just play.” Sure enough, Young crushed a two-run homer Thursday as the Mets coolly beat the Phillies, 4-1, at Citizens Bank Park in the first game of a rare five-game series. Zack Wheeler was dominant, allowing one run in six and a third innings. Catcher Travis d’Arnaud played his first game since sustaining a concussion on May 13. And Jenrry Mejia struck out the side in the ninth to record his fifth save of the season. The win gave Terry Collins his 250th as the Mets’ manager, making him the seventh manager in the team’s history to reach that mark. The Mets’ lackluster home record had been well documented and often scrutinized.  Entering this long stretch of road games, they were averaging about 1.78 more runs per game away from home. They often indirectly blame the dimensions at Citi Field and their numerous extracurricular obligations at home. On the road, they simply show up and play. Asked to explain why they thrived as visitors, they shrugged. “I think if we knew,” Daniel Murphy said, “we’d bottle it up and take it home with us.” Young, for one, appeared hurt by the booing. At his locker Thursday, he acknowledged he was in a slump. His average had dropped to .195, and he was averaging more than eight strikeouts for every home run. Despite a one-year, $7.25 million deal, he had not performed as one of the Mets’ highest-paid players. But this was what Young had become in recent years: a right-handed slugger who hunted for doubles and home runs, hit for a low average and struck out a lot. He had worked on his swing in the off-season with the Hall of Famer Rod Carew, and, as he struggled this season, he tried to simplify his approach, to simply “see ball, hit ball,” he said. “Anybody would be lying if they said boos didn’t bother them, so I’m not going to fabricate,” Young said. “It’s uncomfortable to hear that as a player. You want to do well for the fan base.” David Wright, who is almost never booed, played down the effects of hearing it from the fans. “Let’s put it this way,” he said. “If a little booing or some negativity completely throws you off of your game and you can’t concentrate — you can’t focus because you get booed here and there — then, you know, we got the wrong guys.” Perhaps because Young was slumping, David Buchanan, the Phillies’ starter, decided to challenge him with an 0-1 fastball in the fourth. But Young swung smooth and easy and lifted the ball over the left-field wall in a much cozier park than Citi Field.  The Citizens Bank Park crowd groaned and went quiet as Young rounded the bases, his lips pursed. The next inning, though, he would fly out with the bases loaded. “It gets to a point where, as a player, you have to hold yourself accountable,” Young said. He added: “At some point, you have to take the responsibility upon yourself and go out there and have quality at-bats. So that’s what I’m going to try to do.” The fans booed only when Wheeler struck out a home batter, and they had numerous opportunities as he compiled nine strikeouts. D’Arnaud, back after missing 14 games with a concussion, deftly navigated Wheeler through the lineup.  “It felt good,” Wheeler said. “I knew I had it today.” Wheeler allowed only three hits over the first six innings, and Collins sent him out to start the seventh at 101 pitches. But on Wheeler’s 108th pitch, the former Met Marlon Byrd hit a solo home run to right field, and Wheeler was pulled. The Mets’ bullpen retired the last eight Phillies in order. For the Mets, it was a familiar scene. The home fans booed louder each time the Phillies failed, especially in the ninth, as Mejia struck out Jimmy Rollins, Chase Utley and Ryan Howard. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS