Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSJUNE 2, 2014
 Justin Masterson shook off a rocky start and pitched seven scoreless innings as the Cleveland Indians ended visiting Boston’s seven-game winning streak with a 3-2 victory Monday night. Masterson (3-4), who made his debut with the Red Sox in 2008, walked four in the first three innings, but he got a huge strikeout to escape a bases-loaded threat in the first and settled in to win for the first time in five starts. He allowed just three singles and struck out a season-high 10. During one stretch from the third to the sixth, Masterson threw 25 consecutive strikes. “I feel like I’ve probably thrown 25 balls in a row in one game,” Masterson said with a laugh. “It felt like we were pounding the zone.” Lonnie Chisenhall hit a two-run single in the first off John Lackey (6-4), and the Indians won their fourth straight. Advertisement Red Sox shortstop Stephen Drew went 0 for 2 with a walk in his season debut. He re-signed with Boston as a free agent last month. Advertisement MARLINS 3, RAYS 1 Randy Wolf pitched six innings for his first victory since 2012, and host Miami beat Tampa Bay, sending the Rays to their seventh consecutive loss.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Rays fell to 0-7 on their eight-game trip. They are 12 games below .500 for the first time since 2007, and their record (23-35) is the worst in the American League. Four Miami relievers completed a six-hitter, and Steve Cishek pitched a perfect ninth for his 12th save in 13 chances. BREWERS 6, TWINS 2 Matt Garza took a shutout into the seventh inning, and Mark Reynolds hit a two-run homer as host Milwaukee defeated Minnesota. Garza (3-4) allowed six hits over six and a third scoreless innings against the team that brought him to the big leagues in 2006. Kyle Gibson (4-5) allowed four runs and six hits in six innings.  ROYALS 6, CARDINALS 0 Danny Duffy worked six innings of one-hit ball, and Alex Gordon homered to start a breakout three-run seventh for visiting Kansas City in a victory over St. Louis, which has been shut out in consecutive games. A version of this article appears in print on June 3, 2014, on Page B12 of the New York edition with the headline: Indians Stop Red Sox’ Streak.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »