Advertisement By GEORGE VECSEY EVERYBODY who had stayed up until 2 A.M. on Monday, watching the drama of the Senate hearings, could have used some sleep. But this year's Giants don't do anything easily, or early. Still, something good came out of Monday night's 23-20 victory over the Steelers: a reminder that if left to his own devices Jeff Hostetler can make things happen. The quarterback personally and physically saved the game with an exquisitely timed 18-yard dash up the middle to set up Matt Bahr's 44-yard field goal with 4 seconds remaining. The delayed scramble is exactly the skill Hostetler added to the Super Bowl run last January, the reason he has been made the first-string quarterback this season. Advertisement Hostetler is not likely to blow away the opposition with touchdown passes after three quarters. What this means for Giants fans is not rushing to beat traffic on the dreaded New Jersey Turnpike, not clicking off the tube on a Sunday afternoon and securely going out to rake leaves, not serenely falling asleep at night after three quarters. Advertisement Of course, it's good for the ratings. "I told Frank Gifford they should have us on every Monday night," joked Wellington Mara, the venerable owner, who knows that his old glamour back doesn't mind telling viewers this one could go down to the wire. And if they do go to the wire, Hostetler needs more freedom to create. He knows he is still the man who replaced Phil Simms. It is also true that Giants fans, in all their petulance, are known to yowl for the head of the starting quarterback, whether Conerly or Tittle or Tarkenton or Simms, if he fails to make a first down on the first possession of the game. And that was even before radio-babble and tabloid-frenzy. This is not totally a New York disease. Here in Stiller-land, the fans were howling for Bubby Brister to take a walk on the Ohio River after the locals fell behind, 20-0. When Chuck Noll sent in a second-string quarterback named Neil O'Donnell, the Steelers did indeed rally to 20-13 with 4:37 left. Wanting to grind out the time, Hostetler faced a third-and-8 on his own 21. The play was a run by Dave Meggett up the middle, for 4 yards. Asked about the call, Hostetler said later: "They were blitzing us. They felt that putting the ball in the air at that time was not a good idea." The first "they" was the Steelers. The second "they" was the Giants' coaching staff. Hostetler was not being disrespectful of the decision. He left it for others to figure out that it was not a call to send in for an instinctive athletic quarterback when you needed to keep rolling.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Desperation would come later. The Steelers' second-string quarterback tied the game with 50 seconds left, and Eric Green was penalized 5 yards for excessively celebrating his touchdown. This was a ludicrously dumb call. The officials, who have been warned by mission control to be on the lookout for excess emotion, should have been looking at the sky for space ships.  Still, Green's 5 yards didn't hurt the Steelers nearly as badly as the decision to kick the ball away from Meggett. The kickoff, from the 30, went out of bounds, giving the Giants the option of taking the ball 30 yards from where it was kicked. Starting from the 40, Hostetler had the room and the need to improvise on the plays he was given. Advertisement He gave the ball to Rodney Hampton for no gain. Then he passed to Meggett for 16 yards with 29 seconds left. Then he called for a pass to Zeke Mowatt toward the sideline, to stop the clock, but he knew he had options. "When I dropped back, I saw the sides were covered," Hostetler said later. "If you don't protect your middle, there are holes. It was pretty wide open. "I watch a lot of film," Hostetler added. "I thought there might be an opportunity to take off. But you want to make sure you don't take off too soon." After four years of not throwing a single pass, nearly three years of backup work and one glorious Super Bowl, Jeff Hostetler had the poise to wait, and wait, and then send his rugged 6-foot-3-inch, 215-pound frame up the middle, for 18 yards until he wisely slid onto the turf. "You just run and slide and get up and get your team to the line of scrimmage and ground the ball," Hostetler recited later. The spiked pass stopped the clock for Bahr to kick the winning field goal. Soon Hostetler was asked if the late march settled the quarterback thing once and for all. "That will probably never go away," Hostetler said, which is true. But if Ray Handley, the new coach, gave Hostetler the job, the next step is to give him the job security to play his game. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 16, 1991, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; Midnight Scrambler Wins Again.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »