Advertisement By ALEX YANNIS and  Fair treatment, like hot water in the showers and fewer than nine consecutive penalties called against them, was all the Devils were asking for at Capital Centre tonight after their nightmare in Buffalo. On Friday night, the Devils overcame 8 out of 10 manpower advantages for the Sabres, but they lost a three-goal lead and ended up suffering a 5-4 loss. Not even the cold water in the showers could cool their tempers afterward. "It was a bad experience all around," defenseman Ken Daneyko said before tonight's game with the Capitals. "It was tough. The only thing we can do is forget about it and look ahead." The Devils looked ahead with optimism against Washington because Pat Conacher, one of New Jersey's workhorses, was back in the lineup after missing 34 games because of abdominal surgery. Advertisement Tom McVie, the Devils coach, had a choice of first playing Conacher either in Buffalo or Washington and chose to play him against the Capitals, who were going into the game without a victory in their last five games. On Friday night at home, the Capitals had a 3-3 tie with Winnipeg. Advertisement "I didn't want to play him back-to-back after he was out for so long," McVie said about Conacher, one of the team's top penalty killers. "I hope he plays a regular shift rather than kill penalties all night." The Devils spent a great deal of time killing penalties in Buffalo, especially after they built a 4-1 lead early in the second on two goals by Zdeno Ciger sandwiched between Claude Lemieux's 38th of the season and Kevin Todd's 18th. Faltering Offense After Todd's goal gave the Devils a three-goal cushion 3 minutes 3 seconds into the period, the Devils' offense fell as quickly as you can say hot water, please. Buffalo took over offensively and pinned the Devils in their own end of the ice for almost the entire balance of the game. The domination was so complete after Todd's goal that Buffalo took the next 15 shots in the game. "It's difficult to play offense when you have to play defense all night," Lou Lamoriello, the president of the Devils, said, alluding to the Devils' having to play a man short 10 times during the game. Several Advantages  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Seven consecutive manpower advantages for Buffalo after the Devils had the three-goal lead was a major factor in Buffalo's domination from the early stages of the second until the end. The Devils killed all the penalties except when they were two men short during Pat LaFontaine's third goal of the night, which completed his fourth hat trick of the season, 8:07 into the last period. It was a double-minor penalty to Daneyko for tripping and roughing on top of a penalty to Slava Fetisov that gave the Sabres their second two-men advantage in the game early in the third. Advertisement None of the Devils criticized any of the penalties Referee Ron Hoggarth called against them. The only play they questioned was LaFontaine's second goal, which brought the Sabres within one just a litlle over two minutes before his tying goal. Differing Views Several Devils believed that Jay Wells of the Sabres was in the Devils' zone when he made the pass to LaFontaine outside the Devils' zone, which means the play was offside. LaFontaine's tying goal was set up by Dale Hawerchuck, who also set up the winner by Donald Audette with 52 seconds left to give the Sabres their first victory in four games. Hawerchuk is unhappy in Buffalo, and several teams are interested, including the Devils, who are offering Sean Burke. But the Devils are apparently in strong competition with other teams in the league for Buffalo's leading scorer because seven teams in the league had representatives at the Aud Friday night. SLAP SHOTS Playoff tickets for the Devils will go on sale March 16 at 9 A.M. . . . The Devils will continue their six-game trip, their longest of the season, with games at Edmonton, Vancouver and San Jose. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 8, 1992, on Page 8008005 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; Devils Wouldn't Mind Getting a Few Breaks.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »