Advertisement By PHIL BERGER and  In the beginning, Larry Holmes was nervous and his moves tentative. A look of high anxiety flickered across his face. In the Convention Center ring Friday night, he fought like -- well, a 42-year-old grandfather. In those early minutes of the match, Holmes's opponent, 30-year-old Ray Mercer, reacted to his punches as though they were a mere distraction, with no more impact than what might land on him in a pillow fight. Mercer, a gold medalist at the 1988 Olympics, kept walking forward with the assurance of a hit man, throwing clubbing punches and sending Holmes reeling in the first round with a mere jab. But before the 12-round nontitle heavyweight bout ended, Mercer would lose that swagger and end up looking like an upright perplexity, a fighter caught up in Holmes's great bamboozle. Advertisement For while Holmes struck with punches, it was gamesmanship -- the creaking art of self-defense -- that kept him in the fight and he ended with a shocking unanimous decision. Sparing the Legs Advertisement Holmes, the underdog, showed Mercer a little of this and a little of that. For several rounds, Holmes used a variant of the rope-a-dope, planting his back against the ropes to spare his old legs their labor while muffling Mercer's punches and whacking the occasional combination off Mercer's head. He bluffed, he conned, he talked to the other man. Once, in Mercer's corner, Holmes even turned to the television camera there and twice addressed it, before wheeling and hitting Mercer. Holmes did what he had to. His punches never appeared to pain Mercer, but his tactics eventually discouraged him and left Mercer lunging amateurishly to land punches. Mercer simply could not figure a way through Holmes's defense. Holmes, who held the heavyweight title from 1978 to 1985, was using his longer reach by placing his glove on the top of Mercer's head and simply holding him off. He clinched, he posed, he even wiggled his hips to show that, even if he is 42, he is still Larry Holmes, fierce enough to beat a young pretender. Holmes won with guile more than with firepower. It wasn't photogenic. It wasn't the balletic art of Muhammad Ali. It was an old fighter with surivival tactics who was able to break down a tough but unsophisticated pug and do it with an amazing economy. Crowd Involvement  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. A computer punch count had Mercer throwing 657 punches, compared with 491 for Holmes. But Holmes landed 336 of his 491, or 68.4 percent, while Mercer managed to connect on 247 of 657 for 37.6 percent. It didn't take long for the Convention Center crowd to realize what Holmes, who has two grandchildren, was doing. They began to chant "Lar-ry, Lar-ry, Lar-ry" in support of the former champion. As Mercer said afterward, "When you're 42 and it's close, maybe you should get it." In fact, it wasn't as close as Mercer reckoned. Judges Phil Newman (117-112), Eugene Grant (117-111) and John Poturaj (115-113) all had it for Holmes. Advertisement Newman said afterward: "Too smart. Larry did everything he wanted." Holmes? "You're only as old as you feel and live," he said at the post-fight news conference. Damage Is Assessed While Holmes conceded that Mercer landed punches that hurt, he put the damage in context. "I've been hit harder," he said, "but I was younger." Holmes, who weighed 233 pounds, has a record of 54-3, with 37 knockouts. Mercer, who weighed 228 3/4 pounds, lost for the first time in 19 fights. "I fought the best I could," said Mercer. "Larry's defense was one I wasn't accustomed to." Mercer said that Holmes's elbows caused damage to his right bicep about midway through the fight and diminished his big punch, the right hand. "But the better man won tonight," he said. Holmes made just over $1 million, and Mercer got $1.2 million. Holmes said his objective was to get a title fight before the year was out. But it remains to be seen if there is a Holmes in the immediate future of Evander Holyfield, the undisputed heavyweight champion. If not, Holmes could end up in the ring against another 40-something marvel, George Foreman. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 9, 1992, on Page 8008013 of the National edition with the headline: BOXING; Holmes Manages to Pull a Triumph Out of His Hat.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »