Throughout the week, Mike Tanier will be out and about and filing dispatches from the Super Bowl city. Just a few paces from the Indianapolis City Market lies the indoor farmer’s market, where you can find local crafts, dried pastas, and complimentary CDs by local record label Asthmatic Kitty. Downstairs from the farmer’s market is what may be the ideal place to watch the Super Bowl. Which Super Bowl is a matter of debate. With red inflatable furniture, vintage carpeting, and Huey Lewis albums on the turntable, the Yelp.com Lounge is better suited to watch Super Bowl XVII than Super Bowl XLVI. The lounge has been in the market basement since Tuesday, according to John Tower Akerman, senior community manager for Yelp.com, a business review site. “We hope to welcome younger members of our review community, both locally and nationally.” Visitors have been coming to the lounge in a steady stream since Tuesday. When not grooving to Huey Lewis, visitors can play foosball or cornhole, enjoy a beer after noon, or watch sports on a non-retro high-def television. Akerman is not sure how many people will arrive for the Super Bowl. “The word is out,” he said. “We will just pack it in as much as possible.” Space may be limited. And the blow-up furniture definitely has a weight limit. Mike Tanier writes about the N.F.L. for The Times, Football Outsiders and NBC Sports. If you are in Indianapolis, look for him out and about: he will be the one complaining about the lack of authentic cheese steaks. The New York Times will report on the Giants and Jets throughout the season. You can also find links to coverage from around the league, tips for your fantasy football team and discussion with other football fans. 
			The content on the Fifth Down blog is moving to the pro football page on nytimes.com.Read more… 
			The Jets receiver became a critic of the game and its role in American society. But the decision to walk away was also personal.Read more… 
			John Idzik, the general manager of the Jets, will not retain Scott Cohen, the assistant general manager. Ari Nissim, another high-ranking executive, also will depart.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, answers questions from readers.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, will answer questions from readers.Read more… Follow Advertisement