Advertisement By NELSON BRYANT The sun was low in the west when Joseph Cullman 3d and I were driving down the last two miles of the woods road that leads to the Two Brook camp on the Upsalquitch River in New Brunswick. As we jounced down the hillside at a speed I would have deemed excessive were it not for an awareness that every minute gained was an additional minute to fish for Atlantic salmon, our heady flight to pleasure was stopped by a female ruffed grouse standing in the middle of the road. The grouse eyed us from 30 yards away, then, apparently satisfied that we posed no threat, called to her hidden chicks. One by one -- there were five in all -- they scuttled across the road and into the forest. Their crossing accomplished, the mother sedately followed. "That's my favorite upland bird," Cullman said. "Mine, too," I replied. "She's done well to get five of them this far along." Advertisement "It's been a tough spring for grouse up here," Cullman said, "cold and wet." The cold and wet that worked against survival of baby grouse has had a salubrious effect on salmon runs here. Fishing has been excellent this summer on the river and on the Ristigouche, the big river into which the Upsalquitch flows. Advertisement At the Two Brook camp and the Runnymeade on the Ristigouche, both owned by Cullman and his brother Edgar, the catch has already gone way beyond the total for the entire 1991 season. One should add that this year's ban on commercial salmon netting in insular Newfoundland, a fishery that was taking many salmon bound for rivers in other provinces and New England, has undoubtedly contributed to the improved runs. (There is also a reduced net fishery in Labrador, which is part of Newfoundland.) By the second week in July, the Upsalquitch was running about 20 inches above normal and the water temperature, when I took it late one afternoon, was 54 degrees. Conditions on the Ristigouche were similar, and the weather was delightfully cool, with the air temperature dropping into the low 40's -- and once the high 30's -- at night. Both rivers have remained high and cold and the fishing, particularly on the Upsalquitch, has been superb. All of the anglers in Joe Cullman's party -- his wife, Joan, Ed and Robbin Mele of Utica, Joan Wulff of Lew Beach, N.Y., and Barbara Goldsmith and Jane Brown, both of Manhattan -- took salmon and grilse. The women caught more large salmon than the men, the best one being Wulff's 26-pounder from the Upsalquitch. Wulff also lost a truly large salmon on the Ristigouche, one that had taken out nearly all her reel's backing before the hook pulled free. Two guides, Lee Marshall and Dennis Moran, were waiting for us when Joe and I arrived at Two Brook. My host went downstream with Lee, and I upstream with Dennis, with the understanding that either group would move toward the other if no fish were encountered.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. On my fifth or sixth cast at the top of Humbug pool, I hooked a small grilse, about 3 pounds, but decided to release it. A grilse is a small salmon that returns to its natal stream after only one year at sea. Advertisement In New Brunswick, one may keep two grilse daily -- the season limit is 10 -- but must release all larger salmon. The other aspect of the daily limit is that one may bring only four fish -- salmon or grilse in any combination -- to the net, even if all are released. I set the small grilse free, because two days before I had encountered fat lovely grilse twice that size on the Upsalquitch. I was greedy. I usually angle for Atlantic salmon no more than twice a year, and regard them as the tastiest fish that swims. I wanted a big grilse. I caught one on a Silver Rat fly 15 minutes later, then began to concentrate on the big salmon that were rolling all about me, one of which would have gone between 25 and 30 pounds. Two days before that on the Upsalquitch with Dusty Irvine, a guide, I had kept one good-sized grilse then released two smaller ones, leaving me with one fish to go. I wanted another grilse, but when a salmon rose for, but missed, my fly, I couldn't resist going after him. A raised salmon is one of angling's most enticing challenges. Ten minutes later, the fish, an 11-pounder, seized my fly -- a Rusty Rat -- and departed the pool before I could bring it under control. The northwest-flowing Upsalquitch rises in a remote region of northern New Brunswick and twists and turns its way through a steep-sided valley to its meeting with the Ristigouche near Dawsonville. The Upsalquitch is a smallish stream as salmon rivers go, and its salmon are not as large as those in the Ristigouche. It is, however, marvelously intimate and wild, free of the works of man save for an occasional camp or warden's shack. It looks, smells, sounds and feels as a salmon river should: pure, cold water rushing through a wilderness. At Humbug the evening I fished with Cullman, the pool, which is more than 200 yards long, was entirely in shadow when I was startled by a good-sized salmon that began dancing over the dark water at the pool's lower end. The salmon was trying to rid itself of Joe's fly. In less than an hour at the lower end of Humbug, Cullman, who was invisible to me because of a bend in the river, had his limit, one grilse kept, three salmon released, while I flailed away, with no success. We left the Upsalquitch and its dark spires of sentinel spruces in near-darkness and on the drive out we encountered a sow bear and her two cubs. Unlike the hen partridge, she led the retreat into the forest, her offspring bouncing along behind. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 16, 1992, on Page 8008010 of the National edition with the headline: OUTDOORS; Camps Along 2 Rivers and Plenty of Salmon.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »