Advertisement By BENJAMIN HOFFMANFEB. 4, 2012
 INDIANAPOLIS — Curtis Martin was elected to the Pro Football Hall of Fame on Saturday, but he will be going in without the coach who drafted him, Bill Parcells. In his second year as a finalist, Martin was the only running back selected in the voting by a panel of 44 members of the news media. Joining him in the class of 2012 are center Dermontti Dawson, defensive end Chris Doleman, defensive tackle Cortez Kennedy and offensive tackle Willie Roaf. The Hall of Fame’s senior committee elected cornerback Jack Butler. A finalist last season, Martin was up against a star-studded group of finalists led by Deion Sanders and Marshall Faulk, which left Martin skeptical of his chances. “I felt a little different this year,” Martin said during NFL Network’s broadcast. “I felt my chances were a little better.” In 11 seasons with New England and the Jets, Martin became only the second running back to begin his career with 10 consecutive 1,000-yard seasons in rushing. (The first was Barry Sanders.) Martin was the N.F.L.’s rookie of the year in 1995 and led the league in rushing with 1,697 yards in 2004 at the age of 31. Martin is fourth in N.F.L. career rushing yards with 14,101, and his 10,302 yards with the Jets are a franchise record. Advertisement “This wasn’t something that I planned on doing,” Martin said of his celebrated career. “Football was something I did so I didn’t end up dead or in jail back in Pittsburgh. For it to turn out this way, it just humbles me.” Advertisement Parcells, Martin’s longtime coach, reached the final 10 in this year’s selection process, but he was eliminated from consideration before the final five. The two-time Super Bowl-winning coach of the Giants, the Jets, the Patriots and the Dallas Cowboys, Parcells drafted Martin and engineered his move from the Patriots to the Jets. “The bittersweet part is Parcells,” Martin said after the announcement. “I think that without him, my career would have been 30 percent of what it was. He helped me be a professional, to be a professional athlete, but he also had a lot to do with teaching me how to be a man.” In a conference call, Martin said he would like Parcells to introduce him at his induction. “There is no one more befitting to present me at the Hall of Fame,” Martin said. “Parcells has meant everything to my career. There’s been God, and there’s Parcells as far as the meaning they’ve had to my career.” Three talented wide receivers — Cris Carter, Tim Brown and Andre Reed — did not make it past the top 10 in the voting. Despite ranking 4th, 6th and 12th in career receiving touchdowns, the three have yet to garner the support needed for induction. Also failing to make the cut was the Pittsburgh Steelers running back Jerome Bettis, who played in six Pro Bowls and scored 91 career touchdowns. Butler, the lone senior committee selection, was a Steelers cornerback from 1951 to 1959. RODGERS IS M.V.P.  Green Bay quarterback Aaron Rodgers won the 2011 Associated Press N.F.L. Most Valuable Player award, earning 48 votes to 2 for New Orleans quarterback Drew Brees in balloting by a panel of 50 news media members who cover the league. Rodgers is the first Green Bay player honored since Brett Favre in 1997. Rodgers led the N.F.L. in passing with a 122.5 rating built on 45 touchdown passes, 6 interceptions and a 68.3 completion percentage as the Packers went 15-1 and won the N.F.C. North. Advertisement Brees’s record-setting season earned him the Offensive Player of the Year award. Brees (43 of 50 votes) shattered Dan Marino’s 27-year-old mark by passing for 5,476 yards, and his 468 completions broke Peyton Manning’s 2010 record of 450. Baltimore linebacker Terrell Suggs won the Defensive Player of the Year award. Suggs (21 votes) had 70 tackles, including 14 sacks. He also forced seven fumbles and had two interceptions. Carolina quarterback Cam Newton (47 votes) won the Offensive Rookie of the Year award, becoming the second straight No. 1 overall pick to take the honor and the first Panther. Newton set an N.F.L. record for rushing touchdowns in a season by a quarterback with 14 and became the first player in league history to throw for 4,000 yards and run for 500.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. San Francisco’s Jim Harbaugh won the Coach of the Year award. In his first season as an N.F.L. coach, Harbaugh guided the 49ers to a 13-3 mark and the N.F.C. West title and the conference championship game. (AP) PATRIOTS CUT RECEIVER Wide receiver Tiquan Underwood was cut by the Patriots less than 24 hours before the Super Bowl, a move that increases the likelihood Chad Ochocinco will be active. Ochocinco had a career-low 15 catches in his first season with the Patriots and was inactive for the A.F.C. championship game. (AP) PREMATURE POST BY GIANTS About 24 hours before the Super Bowl, “The Giants are Super Bowl Champions,” with an image of the Lombardi Trophy and a link to order gear, showed up on the Giants’ Web site. The N.F.L. said that the page was set up for possible use after the game but was “inadvertently available for a brief period of time.” (AP) A version of this article appears in print on February 5, 2012, on Page SP4 of the New York edition with the headline: Martin Elected to Hall of Fame, but Parcells Misses the Cut.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »