Advertisement By DAVID ROHDE and  The headquarters of the Lithuanian Olympic Committee, situated in ornate offices in the center of this capital city, stand in sharp contrast to the grim, boxlike buildings that house the country's rowing program on the outskirts of the city. The small gymnasiums used for winter training feature posters of high-tech rowing machines, but there are only a handful of these expensive machines in Lithuania. In Latvia, the only modern training center is a bobsled track and training center built by the Soviet Union in the 1980's. And in Estonia there is no velodrome, so the country's most accomplished athlete, the cyclist Erika Salumae, has been training in Moscow instead. "Funding is a very big problem," said Salumae, an Olympic gold medalist in 1988. "Now I must find organizations to help me get to international competitions to train." Teams Face Some Obstacles These are the obstacles faced by the newly independent Baltic Republics of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia as they prepare to send teams to the 1992 Winter Olympics in Albertville, France, and the Summer Games in Barcelona, Spain. Advertisement Olympic committees in the three countries have become centers of frantic activity as they search the world for sponsors, coaches, and training facilities for their athletes. Officials estimated they have only a little more than half of the funds they need, and pinned their hopes on corporate sponsors and donations from abroad to make up the difference. Advertisement The Soviet Union formally recognized the independence of the Baltic states on Sept. 6, and 12 days later they were reinstated into the Olympic movement by the International Olympic Committee and invited to participate in the 1992 Games. Favoritism Over Nationality Before that, Baltic athletes competed as part of the Soviet national team where Russian athletes were favored over other nationalities, according to several Baltic athletes. If a Soviet athlete was world class, he or she benefited from the better living conditions, top-notch training facilities and intensive training that were hallmarks of the Soviet Olympic machine. Baltic athletes are still training at various locales in the Soviet Union, but they must now pay for the use of the facilities, according to officials. Estimates of what it would cost for the Baltics to send teams to Albertville and Barcelona ranged from $300,000 to $500,000 for the Winter Olympics and between $2 million and $3 million for the Summer Olympics. Officials estimated that 50 percent to 75 percent of the needed revenue had been raised, but said they were unsure whether their cash-strapped new governments would be able to provide the rest of the funds they have promised. Looking to U.S. for Sponsors "Maybe we can find companies to sponsor us in Finland, Germany and the United States," said Rein Ottoson, coach of the Estonian sailing team. "The problem is that all we have is rubles, and they are worthless." All three countries have joined an I.O.C. program to help develop corporate sponsors, and several Baltic skiers have already signed agreements to be sponsored by the Fischer Atomic and Karhu ski companies. One of the few areas in the Baltics where fianancing problems do not exist is the Lithuanian men's basketball team. Led by Sarunas Marciulionis of the Golden State Warriors, the team has four members of the Soviet Olympic team that won the gold medal in 1988. Advertisement Marciulionis has agreed to donate at least $200,000 to the team. With four other team members playing with Western European clubs, Lithuanian officials predicted that financing the team would not be a problem. But athletes in other sports have not been so fortunate. Many have been forced to train at their homes without the benefit of competing against the best in their sport. Independence has also created an uncomfortable situation for athletes who are ethnic minorities in the Baltics. Ivan Klementjev, a five-time world canoeing champion and 1988 Olympic champion, is an ethnic Russian who would like to represent Latvia in the Olympics. Some Latvians call the ethnic Russians who make up half the population of Latvia "occupiers" and feel they should leave.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Here is how the three countries stand in their Olympic preparations: Lithuania Lithuania plans to concentrate on the Summer Games in Barcelona, and will be sending only four athletes to the Winter Games in Albertville. One is the cross-country skier Vida Vinciene, winner of the gold medal in the women's 10-kilometer race in 1988. Lithuania, with a population of 3,690,000, plans to send 20 to 30 athletes, not including the men's basketball team, to Barcelona. The basketball team is already the focus of national attention. The Lithuanians see getting through the European region qualifying rounds as the team's most difficult task. "It will be more difficult to get to the final competition in Barcelona, than to win the gold medal," Petras Statuta, director of the Lithuanian Olympic Committee said. He said Lithuania expected stiff competition from Israel, Austria, Germany and Yugoslavia if the latter fields a team. Lithuania also has a world-class swimmer, Rolandas Mazhuolis, who won the silver in the 1,500-meter freestyle event in 1988. Latvia When the Soviet Union decided to develop its first bobsledding team 10 years ago, the man behind the idea was a Latvian -- Janis Kipurs. He was not only the driving force behind the bobsled program, but also its top competitor, leading the team to a bronze medal in 1984 and a gold medal in 1988. Advertisement The only state-of-the-art, artificial ice bobsled track in the Soviet Union was built in Latvia in the early 1980's. The Soviet team must now pay the Latvians to practice on the track and the Soviet team has been decimated by the loss of the Latvians, according to Latvian officials. Latvia, with a population of 2,681,000, plans to send 20 athletes to Albertville to compete in bobsled, luge and cross- country skiing. Klementjev, the Russian canoer, leads a Latvian Summer Olympic team that will feature between 20 and 30 athletes. After winning the Olympic gold in 1988 and the world championship in 1989, 1990, and 1991, Klementjev is favored to win again. Natalya Lashchonova, a Russian gymnast who lives in Latvia and would also like to represent Latvia in the Olympics, won a gold as a member of the Soviet team in 1988. She was the all-around champion at last year's world championships. Estonia Estonia is the smallest of the Baltics with a population of 1,573,000. But in 1980 Estonia was the host to the sailing competitions that were part of the Moscow Summer Olympics. As a result it is blessed with the best training facilities in the Baltics. A tour of the Piritta Olympic Center in the driving rain and bitter cold that characterize Baltic winters revealed a swimming pool, several indoor basketball courts, racquetball courts and weight rooms swarming with young Estonian athletes. Officials see the center, which includes a 100-bed hotel, as a key to turning promising young Estonians into world-class athletes and bringing international competitions to Estonia. For the 1992 Winter Games the Estonians will be led by Allar Levandi, the winner of the bronze medal in the Nordic Combined event in 1988. About 18 Estonian athletes will go to Albertville to compete in cross-country skiing, Nordic Combined, figure skating and biathlon events. The team for the Summer Games will be led by the cyclist Salumae, who was treated like a national hero and given a house by the Estonian Government when she returned from Seoul after winning a gold medal in the 200-meter sprint in 1988. A sports article on Dec. 8 about the Olympic prospects of the Baltic states misidentified the 1988 winner of the silver medal in 1,500-meter men's freestyle swimming. It was Stefan Pfeiffer of West Germany. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 8, 1991, on Page 8008011 of the National edition with the headline: OLYMPICS; Baltic Republics Hope for Donations From Abroad for Olympics.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »