Advertisement  TENNIS  Lendl Beats McEnroe Ivan Lendl stopped John McEnroe, 6-2, 6-4, yesterday in the quarterfinals of the Players International tournament in Toronto. In the upset of the day, Wally Masur defeated top-seeded Petr Korda, 7-6 (7-3), 4-6, 6-3. Second-seeded Andre Agassi continued to roll in the hard-court event, defeating Amos Mansdorf, 6-2, 6-4, and sixth-seeded MaliVai Washington defeated No. 4 Aaron Krickstein, 7-6 (7-5), 6-1. The third-seeded Lendl improved his career record against McEnroe to 21-15. (AP) Sampras Wins: Second-seeded Pete Sampras had little trouble dismissing Tomas Carbonell, 6-4, 6-1, and reached the quarterfinals of the Philips Head Cup in Kitzbuhel, Austria. Thomas Muster defeated Jaime Oncins of Brazil, 6-4, 6-2, in the clay-court tournament.(AP) HORSE RACING  Region's Horses Barred Horses from New England states, where there has been an outbreak of an equine virus, yesterday were barred from Belmont Park, Saratoga and Aqueduct. "It is incumbent upon us to help protect our horses and the interests of owners and trainers who race in New York as best we can," Dr. Ted Hill, chief examining veterinarian of the New York Racing Association, said in a statement. (AP) EMPIRE STATE GAMES  Brown Leads Central While the Empire State Games were getting off to a soggy start yesterday in Albany, Mike Brown was leaving his opponents high and dry. Brown, a Siena College senior coming off back surgery, scored 26 points to lead the Adirondack men's open basketball team to a 98-71 thrashing of Central New York on the first day of competition. Lisa Reidman of Utica won the women's gymnastics all-around event, helping Central win the gold for the top all-around team. Reidman totaled 35.250 points. Deborah Iden of Bayport, L.I., won the scholastic women's 5K race walk by beating the defending champion, Roselle Safran of Brentwood, L.I. About 7,000 athletes are taking part in the games, which end Sunday. (AP) We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 24, 1992, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: RESULTS PLUS.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »