Advertisement By WILLIAM C. RHODEN In a rare reversal of one of its decisions, the National Collegiate Athletic Association today restored the eligibility of Conrad McRae, the Syracuse University basketball player who was forced to sit out because of recruiting violations. In overturning a decision it made a month ago, the N.C.A.A.'s eligibility committee said in a prepared statement that while it was convinced that Syracuse gained an improper recruiting advantage in its pursuit of the 6-foot-10-inch center, "it also appeared unreasonable in this case that the young man should bear a disproportionate level of responsibility for the violations." The committee made its decision in a special meeting that was called to consider new information in the case. "I'm just very pleased at the moment," a stunned McRae said after practice yesterday afternoon. "I'm really, really happy and pleased. It's like a sigh of relief to hear the news." 'You Can Win' Advertisement Eric Alderman, McRae's attorney, said: I'm absolutely thrilled. This is America, and if you have a young guy who's willing to stand up for his rights and put himself through what he has to put himself through, you can win and you can be right and that's wonderful." Advertisement "Everyone should be proud of Conrad McRae because he's proved that he's just the consummate student athlete, and he knows who he is and he knows the difference between wright and wrong." The committee reversed its decision after determining that McRae, now a junior, had told an N.C.A.A. staff member three years ago of his contacts with Rob Johnson, a New York City basketball figure who the N.C.A.A. said helped recruit McRae to the university. The committee said McRae had provided the information as part of Operation Intercept, a program designed to determine whether highly sought athletes had been illegally recruited. McRae's contacts with Johnson, which were disclosed by Syracuse last month, were at the heart of the committee's decision to remove his eligibility. Kentucky Was Interested Had the eligibility committee stood by its decision, McRae would have been unable to play for Syracuse, although the N.C.A.A. had said he would be eligible to play for another university. Had McRae decided to transfer, he would have no problem finding a school. The Lexington Herald-Leader reported on Tuesday that Kentucky Wildcats coach Rick Pitino was trying to recruit McRae, and the Syracuse Herald-Journal reported that McRae would visit the Lexington campus, possibly on Dec. 28 when Kentucky is host to rival Louisville.  Pitino confirmed that Kentucky was pursuing McRae, but said N.C.A.A. rules prohibited him from commenting further.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. McRae insisted throut the ordeal that his first priority was to remain at Syracuse and would transfer only if it were his last option. "I've wanted to go to Syracuse since the ninth grade," he said. "I want to graduate from Syracuse. There was always more to it than basketball." It's helped me to mature a little more," McRae said about the experience, "and see how different obstacles will come and how to overcome them." A Unanimous Committee Advertisement Robert M. Sweazy, faculty athletics representative at Texas Tech University and chairman of the committee, said the committee "unanimously concluded that the young man's eligibility at Syracuse should be restored at this time, even though a definite and substantial recruiting advantage was obtained by the institution." The eligibility committee had been scheduled to hear Syracuse's final appeal for restoration of McRae's eligibility today. A hearing had been scheduled for next Thursday in State Supreme Court in Syracuse on McRae's lawsuit against the university and N.C.A.A. On Saturday a State Supreme Court justice upheld the N.C.A.A.'s decision blocking McRae from playing for Syracuse. McRae was suspended on Nov. 19 when the N.C.A.A., responding to information furnished by the university, declared him ineligible before the season opener. McRae then won an injuction that allowed him to participate in three Syracuse games. Johnson and McRae Most of the allegations centered on McRae's relationship with Johnson. In its original decision, the committee determined that McRae rode with Johnson to and from the 1987 Tip-Off Classic in Springfield, Mass. Although McRae paid $20 for his food and gas and for a ticket to the game, the N.C.A.A. determined that those prices were below market value. The tickets were left for Johnson by Jim Boeheim, the Syracuse coach. Johnson also gave McRae a ride to and from the 1987 Carrier Classic in Syracuse. After the game, McRae was taken to dinner off campus by an assistant coach. Although McRae paid for his dinner, the meal violated N.C.A.A. rules because it took place off campus. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 20, 1991, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: BASKETBALL; N.C.A.A. Restores McRae at Syracuse.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »