Advertisement By JORGE ARANGURE Jr.JUNE 20, 2014
 The Yankees are awaiting the results of a precautionary magnetic resonance imaging test on starting pitcher Michael Pineda’s injured right shoulder, the final hurdle before he can begin a throwing program. Pineda has been on the disabled list since May 6 after experiencing pain in his surgically repaired right shoulder while he prepared to return from a 10-game suspension after being caught using pine tar on April 23 against the Boston Red Sox. “We had him do an M.R.I. today to make sure that he’s healed because he’s scheduled to throw fairly shortly here,” Manager Joe Girardi said Friday before the Yankees hosted the Baltimore Orioles. “We’re just waiting to hear the results to see if he’s O.K. to start. He feels good, but again, he hasn’t thrown.” The Yankees are being cautious in how they proceed with Pineda since he missed two full seasons after having labrum surgery shortly after he was acquired from the Seattle Mariners in January 2012. Advertisement Pineda had posted a 1.83 earned run average in four starts before being injured this season and had been one of the team’s most consistent starters. With C. C. Sabathia on the mend with a knee injury, and with Ivan Nova out for the year after having Tommy John surgery, Pineda’s return would be a boost to a rotation that has needed contributions from the fill-in starters Vidal Nuno and Chase Whitley. Sabathia is not expected to return until August at the earliest. Advertisement BELTRAN EXERCISES HIS ARM Carlos Beltran played catch Friday as he continued to rehabilitate from a right elbow injury that kept him out of the lineup this season for 21 games. Beltran returned June 5 but has been limited to a designated-hitter role while he continues to strengthen the elbow. Beltran, who signed a three-year, $45 million contract with the Yankees this past off-season, entered Friday hitting .182 with one home run and a .547 on-base plus slugging percentage since his return from the disabled list.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “As I said, we’re going to take it slow,” Joe Girardi said. “We’re not trying to rush this. He seems to be doing O.K.” Girardi said there was no timetable for when the Yankees expected Beltran to return to playing in the field. Entering Friday’s game, he had been in the lineup as a D.H. 21 times this season. Before this year, Beltran had been a D.H. in only 45 games over his career. “I think he’s adjusted pretty well,” Girardi said. “Sometimes guys talk about how much they’d rather be in the outfield than just being a D.H., something they’re not used to. That’s not Carlos. He accepts it. He understands it. He’s O.K. with it.” In Beltran’s absence, the Yankees have used a platoon of Alfonso Soriano and Ichiro Suzuki in the outfield. “I think it’s worked out well,” Girardi said of the platoon. “I think they have an expectation when they think they’re going to play. They understand when they’re going to play. That’s important. I’m sure each guy would love to play every day, but that’s what we’re doing now. And we’ll continue to evaluate it.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »