Advertisement By IRA BERKOW ONCE upon a time there was this football team that always found a way to lose a game in the last quarter. They were like guys in a parade who strutted down the street only to disappear one by one into an open manhole. The team was the Jets. This season, after going into the fourth quarter with leads, they have lost to the Buffalo Bills, a Super Bowl entrant last January, and then the Chicago Bears. Last season, the Jets lost a handful in the final 15 minutes. And yesterday against the Browns in Cleveland Stadium, the Jets looked as if they just might make their lead and themselves disappear with a poof again in the fourth quarter. Bernie Kosar, the Browns' superb quarterback, was leading a drive, with the score at 17-14 in favor of the Jets. Kosar hit one guy with a pass, and another, and another. Now he was looking to pass yet again, to pierce the heart of the Jets' defense. Advertisement And suddenly, to at least one observer, another game between these two teams came to mind. It was in January 1986, a playoff game, on a wintry day much colder and more bitter than this raw fall day, a day in which Kosar began hitting receivers like crazy in the fourth quarter, and then in overtime, and the Jets lost. Advertisement "It used to be that we'd be thinking at a moment like this, 'Oh, boy, we're on our heels now,' " Jets running back Blair Thomas was saying beside his locker after yesterday's game, tying his red tie as a bead of sweat stopped at the tip of his nose. "But we sensed something different now, a changed attitude. We were walking around, back and forth, saying: 'C'mon, gotta go! We can get 'em.' " And cornerback James Hasty said: "We knew they weren't going to get in. We knew it big time." And defensive end Marvin Washington recalled that when the Jets were calling defensive signals at that crucial point, "We were holding hands in the huddle." Some people might question what kind of bruisers stand in a circle and hold hands. But these are a different type of bruiser, obviously, because on the key play, Mike Brim, a cornerback, cruised in on the scrambling Browns quarterback and lay terrible hands on Kosar, knocking the ball loose and allowing Hasty to recover. The Jets ran out the clock and won. It happened that swiftly. It is a young team (most of the players from 1986 are gone, although the last-minutes legacy has lingered), and one of the more exciting in pro football. The Jets' record is 3-3 and they gave away one game to the Bears through, what, inexperience? And they lost by 3 points to the formidable Bills. Last week, Mike Ditka, the Bears' coach, said that the Jets were better than the Bills, after his team had played both. If this is true, the Jets are not only a young, up-and-coming exciting team, but a serious one, too, and maybe even the best team in the New York metropolitan area. It seems that while the praise from Ditka might be overblown, the Jets are lately having a glorious time. They slapped the Miami Dolphins around last week and now they stuck it to the Browns. They did it with imagination, too, as well as a cranky defense.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Their first score came on a 16-yard pass not from an expected source, the quarterback Ken O'Brien, but from Thomas, the second-year running back. He took a handoff from O'Brien, dashed to the right and, as the defense began to converge on him, stopped in his tracks and lofted a pass that was distinguished, according to the Jets' head coach, Bruce Coslet, for its hang time. "The last time I threw a pass in a game was in college," said Thomas, with a smile, recalling when he was a student at Penn State. "It got picked off, though it wasn't returned for a touchdown." Advertisement Coslet had said that when Kyle Clifton, a middle linebacker and an eight-year veteran, had to be removed from the game in the third quarter because of a concussion, he feared it might be curtains for his pups. "Kyle calls our defensive signals," Coslet said, "and in the first series of downs when he was out, we fouled up. But the defense hung together after that." There were a few decisions by Coslet, himself only in his second year as a head coach in the National Football League, that could have been vigorously second-guessed. Why, for example, did he take the penalty and allow the Browns an extra play -- albeit from considerably farther back from the line of scrimmage -- in the fourth period? Similar decisions didn't work quite so well against Chicago or Buffalo, but they worked yesterday. They worked because the team is maturing. They worked because the team is growing in confidence. They worked, too, because the best-laid plans of mice and Jets also need some luck. Kosar doesn't necessarily have to fumble; Kosar maybe is a little sharper with a pass to Eric Metcalf; Blair maybe overthrows Rob Moore in the end zone. "Do you think this team today could have beaten the Bears or the Bills?" Hasty was asked. "I don't want to look back," Hasty said. "I just want to look forward. We play Houston next week. We're moving on." Sounds like words for a Sousa march, one in which the plumed paraders have learned to high-step around the open manholes. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 7, 1991, on Page C00006 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL: Sports of The Times; The Jets Are Strutting a New Step.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »