Advertisement By ROBIN FINN Still coach-less, and temporarily parent-free, Jennifer Capriati breezed into New Jersey yesterday to combine a mini-vacation on the beach at Manasquan with the task of defending her title at the Pathmark Classic, the yearly Mahwah exhibition. The Olympics-bound Capriati said she was hoping to ease the pain of going title-less on the Kraft Tour thus far in 1992 by bringing home a medal from Barcelona. "I'm going to go there and think I can win a medal; if not, why go," she said. "But I'm not feeling pressure about it. The Olympics could be a once-in-a-lifetime deal, so why put the pressure on and get stressed?" Capriati's year had a stressful beginning at the Australian Open, where she lost in the quarterfinals to Gabriela Sabatini, and her ensuing ouster in Tokyo produced a brief renunciation of tennis by February. During that period she fired her coach, Pavel Slozil, cut down her practice time, gained weight, and argued publically with her father, Stefano, about his role in her career. Advertisement But it was a sleeker and more secure version of Capriati that showed up this year at Wimbledon, where she reached the quarterfinals before succumbing in three sets -- again to Sabatini. Advertisement The 16-year-old Capriati said she was not yet concerned by her inability to capture a Grand Slam title. "Of course I have long-term goals; it's been in my dreams since I was 4," she admitted, "but I'm waiting for time to take me to the next level. I don't know when my time is, or if there'll ever be a time for me, but I'm patient." The teen-ager was disinclined to continue a recent Wimbledon tradition and castigate the grunting of Mahwah's top-seeded player, Monica Seles.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "She's grunted with me always, and it's never bothered me before," said Capriati, who defeated the world's No. 1 player in last year's final and also snapped Seles's 21-final and 27-match winning streak in March at Key Biscayne, Fla. But Where's Bobby Riggs? The million-dollar battle-of-the-sexes showdown between Jimmy Connors and Seles fell through, but Los Angeles promoters have gained tentative permission from Connors and Martina Navratilova for a similar bout. An announcement is expected by tomorrow of a winner-takes-all $500,000 bonanza to be staged at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas, Nev., on Sept. 25. Agents for both players said they were waiting for the ink to dry on their contracts with Rick Kulis, a promoter of heavyweight fights of the more standard variety, but expected the match to unfold on schedule. Borg is Back The Nationsbank Classic in Washington this week will include Bjorn Borg's first appearance on the men's circuit in the United States since 1981. Borg, whose latest comeback has been anemic to date (an 0-3 record on clay in Europe), is ranked 1,015th in the world. He will face his fellow Swede Thomas Hogstedt in the first round. Borg's three previous losses this year came against players in the top 50; Hogstedt is ranked 157th. Andre Agassi, Wimbledon's newest champion and the Classic's defending champion, was supposed to team with John McEnroe for doubles this week in a reprisal of their French Open partnership, but the deal fell through. Ivanisevic, With a Bullet The Wimbledon runner-up Goran Ivanisevic may claim he's less wild these days, but his serves aren't: Ivanisevic has fired off 632 aces in just 42 matches, already surpassing Guy Forget's benchmark 611 in 1991. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 14, 1992, on Page B00016 of the National edition with the headline: TENNIS; Capriati Is in New Jersey But Dreams of Barcelona.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »