Advertisement By BARBARA LLOYD and  Today was just the first day of the 1992 America's Cup defense trials, but there has already been a startling turn of events: Dennis Conner, the kingpin of America's Cup racing, looked down the stern of another boat for virtually an entire race. Conner's yacht, Stars & Stripes, lost to Defiant, skippered by Buddy Melges, by 1 minute 34 seconds. And although Conner, the defending America's Cup champion skipper, has plenty of time to turn the tide, given a trials schedule spread over the next three months, William Koch's America 3 syndicate had reason for jubilation this afternoon. "We got the first win under our belts," said David Rosow, a spokesman for America 3, which is fielding two yachts, Defiant and Jayhawk. "The team is exhilarated that this boat, which wasn't tank-tested, did well and that we had good crew work. But we know we didn't win the America's Cup. We have as many as 54 more races to go." Three Skippers Melges will share America 3's helmsman slot with Koch, the group's founder. The team agreed that Melges, a more experienced sailor than Koch, would start off this series, which is designed to pick a boat to defend the 141-year-old trophy against a foreign challenger in May. Advertisement On Wednesday, Koch will skipper Jayhawk against Conner and Stars & Stripes. For today, America 3's choice seemed right. Melges and his crew appeared to sail a nearly flawless race, leading the way around the 22.6-mile course.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Defiant became vulnerable in the seventh leg. A shift in the north-to-northwest breeze robbed wind from both boats' sails. Melges was forced to tack away from Conner, and at first, it looked as if Conner might gain the lead. Instead, Defiant wound up in better position to round the last mark and lengthen its lead. Defiant Gets Early Lead Advertisement Stars & Stripes and Defiant were practically even at the start, on different tacks, but the official timers had Conner's boat six seconds ahead. Nevertheless, Defiant quickly moved into a better position, to the left of the course, and took an early lead, a crucial advantage. The 61-year-old Melges, a seasoned match racer and cup veteran, played the game to the hilt. Every time the 49-year-old Conner tried to tack for a clear breeze, Melges covered by tacking across the bow of Stars & Stripes. The boats had tacked 29 times by the first mark. Defiant rounded ahead of Stars & Stripes by 36 seconds. It appeared that Defiant was a slightly faster boat than Stars & Stripes today in the moderate conditions, 7 to 11 knots of wind. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 15, 1992, on Page B00012 of the National edition with the headline: YACHT RACING; Conner Starts Off By Losing.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »