Advertisement By CLIFTON BROWN and  Charles Oakley wants to rebound this season. He wants to rebound better than anyone in the National Basketball Association. He wants to rebound from a season that was disappointing both for the Knicks and for himself. If Oakley accomplishes those goals, he insists he will be content. That means Oakley will not complain if he is not a major part of the Knicks' offense. At least, that is what the Knicks' power forward said today. And Oakley said it like he meant it. "People always try to say I complain about shooting," Oakley said after today's morning workout at the College of Charleston. "People want to label me like that. Last year I only averaged seven or eight shots and I didn't complain. People always want to down you in some way, and I'm trying to stay strong and look over that because I know I'm not a complainer. I wouldn't be working hard every night trying to win if I was like that. "I'm going into my seventh year. Now I know I'm not going to be a guy that averages 20 points a game. I realize that. I know I can get 15 or 20 rebounds. I'm not going to get upset if I don't score. I just want to play a role. We want to win. No matter what it takes, we want to win." Seeking Rebounding Crown Advertisement Oakley also wants the league's rebounding title, and Oakley knows rebounding. He finished third in the league last season (12.1 average), the fourth season he has finished among the league's top three. There are nights, like April 20 when he grabbed 24 rebounds against Charlotte, when the ball seems to stick with Oakley as if his hands are made of Velcro. He has always been one of the league's most physical players, and teaming him with Xavier McDaniel and Patrick Ewing should give New York one of the league's more imposing front lines. Advertisement But with the addition of McDaniel, Oakley figures to be a smaller part of the offense than last season. Ewing and McDaniel will be the first two options offensively. Kiki Vandeweghe and Gerald Wilkins will get their shots as well. How Oakley adjusts will be a major factor in the Knicks' success, or failure. Despite his rebounding prowess, Oakley has shown a propensity to make careless turnovers and to take low-percentage outside shots. Oakley committed 215 turnovers last season, second on the team behind Ewing (291). Some of those miscues and poor shots seemed to be caused by frustration, when he felt neglected in the Knicks' offense. But there is no denying Oakley's importance as a defender and rebounder. In games in which Oakley had fewer than 10 rebounds last season, the Knicks were 4-18. But in games in which Oakley grabbed 15 or more rebounds, the Knicks were 17-7. Focusing on Defense, Too "I know my role and I'm going to play it," Oakley said. "We got X here to score. Kiki's going to score, X is going to score, Patrick's going to score and Gerald's going to score. I'm going to bang and try to help their games out. I want to be one of the top five defensive players in the league. I want to shut guys down, hold them to respectable points -- guys like Charles Barkley and Karl Malone, keep them from getting 35 points when I play against them."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. One of the team's most outspoken players, Oakley did not hestitate when asked if he felt the Knicks should win the Atlantic Division. "Yes I do," Oakley said. And Oakley said one of the main reasons for his optimism is Pat Riley, the new coach. "Everyone believes in Pat Riley," Oakley said. "The guy's a great coach. We've seen him win so many championships. He's got so much respect. The attitude is automatically positive because there's nothing negative about the coach. Everybody wants to give 110 percent every day. He's truthful with all of us. "We wanted to win last year. I'm not knocking the coaches we had last year, but it's a whole different attitude. We didn't have Pat Riley. No other coaches we've had have won the championships he has won. There's no comparison with Pat Riley to other coaches here. That's a big difference. Plus, management and everything has changed. We've made trades, positive trades. And we've got a nice draft pick in Greg Anthony." Advertisement So Oakley, despite being bothered by a sore toe in practice, is eager for another season. And he is confident it will be a good one. "We have to do it," Oakley said. "We just can't say it. We have to go out and prove it, night in and night out. Talk is cheap. They want to see action." REBOUNDS The Knicks will return to New York after Wednesday's practice. They open the exhibition season Friday night at Madison Square Garden against the Dallas Mavericks. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 9, 1991, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: BASKETBALL; Oakley Set to Provide Inside Story.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »