Advertisement By MALCOLM MORAN and  Their colorful ties tightly knotted and conservative suits cleaned and pressed, the Miami Hurricanes are presenting themselves as a group picture of political correctness as they approach the 58th Orange Bowl. As they prepare for the Nebraska Cornhuskers, and the decisive political intrigue that is virtually certain to follow in the selection of the nation's No. 1 team, the Hurricanes appear equally ready to escort their dates to the spring formal. The timing would seem no accident. Questioners scribble responses, television cameras record impressions and voters shape their opinions for one final poll. And the Hurricanes are attempting -- at least on the surface -- to replace the In-Your-Face approach they have long relished with the scrubbed and starched politeness of Eagle Scouts. Miami's pre-game counter play is aimed at smoothing over a program that began the season amid discussion of admitted fraud by a former employee involving Federal financial aid and is ending with the alleged use of a stolen credit card by running back Martin Patton, who was subsequently suspended. Advertisement "Maybe attracting votes is part of winning a national championship," said Rusty Medearis, the perceptive sophomore defensive end. "Wearing a suit and tie might be part of that." Advertisement "When you come to something like this," quarterback Gino Torretta told reporters seated at a circular table in a sterile hotel ballroom, "we have to show people we're not the Miami hoods of the past." Torretta smiled and said he was not including his older brother, Geoff, a former quarterback. "It's just a part of us changing our ways," he said. One Eye on Washington From all the talk surrounding the Hurricanes in their hometown, they could easily conclude that while they happen to be facing the once-beaten Cornhuskers, the political and emotional competition will come from a University of Washington team a continent away. Washington, the only other major-college team that will take a perfect record into a bowl game, could achieve at least a share of an unofficial national championship with a Rose Bowl victory over Michigan. Miami is No. 1 in The New York Times's computer rankings, ahead of Florida, which will meet Notre Dame in the Sugar Bowl; Michigan, and fourth-place Washington. Nebraska is ranked fifth. Miami also leads The Associated Press poll of reporters by 14 points over second-place Washington. But in the USA Today/CNN poll of coaches, Miami and Washington are tied, although the Hurricanes had 3 more first-place votes in the latest balloting.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Last January, the poll of coaches (which was then coordinated by United Press International) created the first split champion since the 1978 season. The A.P. poll named Colorado No. 1. But by 1 point, the coaches placed Georgia Tech above Colorado, even though Colorado had previously been first in the poll and even though the Buffaloes had come up with a victory in the Orange Bowl. It was an unprecedented vote; never before had a team lost the No. 1 position after winning a bowl game. To further complicate Miami's position, the Hurricanes will face a Nebraska team that will be their only common opponent with Washington. The Huskies beat Nebraska at Lincoln on Sept. 21, scoring 27 consecutive second-half points in a 36-21 victory. Advertisement That could leave Miami, established as a 10-point favorite, facing a politically sensitive distinction if Washington beats Michigan in the hours before the Orange Bowl. "According to the pollsters," said Claude Jones, an offensive guard and graduate student, "we're going to have to beat Nebraska by more than Washington beat them. It's a shame that has to happen. We'll know going into the game -- do we have to win, or do we have to win big enough?" "It is a lot of pressure," Jones said. "Going into a game, you just want to go in relaxed and win. It doesn't matter by how many points." Jones quickly added that he felt confident that the outside expectations and developments would not interfere with the concentration of his teammates. Miami's coaching staff has consistently rejected the suggestion that a victory has to come by a substantial margin to secure a championship. Dennis Erickson, Miami's coach, has adamantly insisted he would not run up a score. Bob Bratkowski, the offensive coordinator, said today that political thinking would not affect strategy. The Miami effort has already been complicated by a shortage of experienced running backs. Miami will be without backs that produced 53 percent of their rushing yards -- Patton and Stephen McGuire, who is recovering from reconstructive knee surgery. Practice, Practice, Practice As the Hurricanes stood in their uniforms on the Orange Bowl turf on Sunday, free-speaking center Kelvin Harris felt the talent pool, including freshman fullback Larry Jones, would fill any void. "This place doesn't rebuild," Harris said. "We just put another bullet in the chamber and start shooting again." O.K., so this new subtlety thing needs work. There will be plenty of time for that. If the Hurricanes manage to successfully claim a championship for the fourth time in nine seasons, the defense of that effort will begin next September -- with a caucus at the University of Iowa. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 31, 1991, on Page B00007 of the National edition with the headline: COLLEGE FOOTBALL; Poll-Conscious Hurricanes Try Some Charm Before the Storm.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »