Advertisement  A. J. Kitt from Rochester outskied every European on the slate today to win the first men's downhill of the 1991-92 World Cup season at the site of February's Olympic race. Kitt, the first American to win a world-class men's downhill since Bill Johnson took the gold medal at the 1984 Olympics, covered the Oreiller-Killy course in 1 minute 55.69 seconds, .49 seconds faster than Leonhard Stock, an Austrian who won this race last year. Finishing third was Franz Heinzer of Switzerland, the World Cup downhill champion and the man who has been most touted to win the Olympic gold medal here. When the United States ski team started making waves on the World Cup circuit last year by insisting on prize money for the racers and more publicity, some people scoffed at the arrogance of it all. Who were these Americans, many asked, to tell the Europeans how to run their sport? Advertisement Some of those scoffers were probably blushing today. The 23-year-old Kitt, in his fourth World Cup season, regarded the victory as a demonstration of growing American influence at the top level of ski racing. Advertisement "It's been a long time since we've had a good downhiller," he said. "As a team, we've been together for five years now. Training together. Racing together. So we kind of know now that if one can do it then the rest can do it. It's just a matter of time before the other guys get in there." One of the other guys is Tommy Moe, a 21-year-old Alaskan who finished 13th. "A. J. won today and that's a major step for America," Moe said. "It lets some of the Europeans know we're not here to mess around. We're here to play ball." Because of new incentives, Kitt will receive $15,000 in prize money. Although he had not been among those threatening to boycott the race in the absence of cash awards, Kitt was not refusing the money.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "I look forward to the day when we're racing for a $40,000 first prize in World Cup," he said. "It would reflect the caliber of the sport. It's a fun sport to watch. I don't think Alpine skiers are any different from football or basketball players in the U.S. We work just as hard as anyone else, and our sport is just as exciting as theirs." Kitt's victory was the first World Cup victory for an American man since Johnson won the last downhill race of 1984. Julie Parisien won a women's World Cup giant slalom early this year at Waterville Valley, N.H. Kitt won the United States downhill and super-G titles last season and has been racing since 1988 on the World Cup circuit. He was 26th in the 1988 Olympic downhill as a 19-year-old. Alberto Tomba of Italy and Paul Accola of Switzerland -- neither of whom competed today -- remained on top of the overall World Cup standings with 360 points. Kitt's victory moved him into seventh place in the overall standings and, of course, on top of the season standings in the downhill. GERMAN WINS SLALOM SANTA CATERINA VALFURVA, Italy, Dec. 7 (AP) -- Katja Seizinger of Germany captured her first World Cup victory today, edging Barbara Sadleder of Austria by .02 seconds in a women's super-giant slalom. Seizinger, 19 years old, beat out the favorites from France and Austria, racing down the Cevedale track in 1 minute 19.97 seconds. Advertisement Her best previous finish was a second place in a Super-G at Meribel last year. Seizinger also gave the German women's team its first Super-G triumph since Regine Mosenlechner in Vail, Colo., in 1989. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 8, 1991, on Page 8008001 of the National edition with the headline: SKIING; U.S. Takes Downhill in Cup Surprise.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »