On Sunday night, The Fifth Down asked readers to choose their favorite moments of the Super Bowl, won by theÂ  Giants, 21-17, over the New England Patriots. Before the week ends, we thought we would share some of the highlights: From Wallatom in Walla Walla: My favorite moment was when the defensive line and Justin Tuck forced Brady to throw an intentional grounding pass from the end zone on the Patriots’ first play from scrimmage, resulting in a safety. That was a historic Super Bowl moment, which almost got lost in the fourth quarter excitement. That play did rattle Brady, and the Giants defense came back to haunt him in the fourth quarter. It was a great play and laid the foundation for the ultimate outcome. Subutai in Palo Alto: When Ahmad Bradshaw hesitated and stumbled rear-end-first into the end zone. It was the funniest and strangest Super Bowl touchdown I have ever seen. A fantastic 88-yard drive. A come-from-behind score to take the lead in the Super Bowl with 57 seconds left, and no one is celebrating!  Bill in Beijing: Manningham’s reception was a great, great clutch moment — a perfect pass and great catch. The contrast with the Pats’ offensive weakness down the stretch made it all the more gratifying. BUT, the unforgettable play of the game had to be Bradshaw’s TD; the Pats allowing him to score, his catching on at the last second and either inability to stop himself, or to make up his mind, the realization all around that Brady had a minute to work with still. I’ve never seen anything like that. Great win for a great team and most of all a great quarterback. Len K in Fair Lawn, N.J.: It was the Manningham catch. And it’s funny that a franchise known for its running and defense has four Super Bowl wins with the key take away from each being (1) Phil Simms 22 of 25, (2) Mark Ingram dancing his way to an incredible first down, (3) David Tyree using his head and (4) Manningham. It’s a funny game. Danny in Jackson Heights: Chase Blackburn beating Gronkowski for an interception. It didn’t turn out to be the most important play of the game, and Gronk was clearly playing hurt. But it said everything about the Giants’ season that their worst cover linebacker, who didn’t even make the team out of camp, won a jump ball against the best tight end in football. The New York Times will report on the Giants and Jets throughout the season. You can also find links to coverage from around the league, tips for your fantasy football team and discussion with other football fans. 
			The content on the Fifth Down blog is moving to the pro football page on nytimes.com.Read more… 
			The Jets receiver became a critic of the game and its role in American society. But the decision to walk away was also personal.Read more… 
			John Idzik, the general manager of the Jets, will not retain Scott Cohen, the assistant general manager. Ari Nissim, another high-ranking executive, also will depart.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, answers questions from readers.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, will answer questions from readers.Read more… Follow Advertisement