Advertisement By CLAIRE SMITH Let the record show that the Mets won three of four games over the weekend from the San Francisco Giants. And let the record show that it is the first time they have managed to win three straight over any team -- or three straight games, period -- since June 21-24. With their mini-streak fresh in their minds, and with the knowledge that a foundering Los Angeles Dodgers team is coming up the turnpike after three amazingly poor performances in Philadelphia, the Mets now have as bright a prognosis for a good week as they've had in a long time. Question is, can they cultivate this turn of events, something they proved incapable of doing time and time again in their disaster of a first half? When asked the question, no Mets player, nor Manager Jeff Torborg, pounded on his chest and responded with an unequivocal yes. For the Mets know that they still have not earned the right to declare their miseries over. "We haven't done anything, yet," Willie Randolph, the second baseman, said. "We have to get back to .500 first, then we can think about things like little runs." Giants and Dodgers a Boon Advertisement Nor will any Met point to the upcoming series against the Dodgers and start counting victories. "The struggling teams are the most dangerous," cautioned Torborg. Advertisement Still, the Mets, coming into the second half of the season fresh off a disappointing four-game split in Houston, had to like having the struggling Giants and Dodgers as the first teams on the schedule. And taking advantage of the schedule is a must for any team still harboring faint hopes of contending. The Mets did what they had to do yesterday against one of the league's more accommodating pitching staffs, winning, 8-4.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "We needed this one in a sense because we haven't put a whole lot together before, but we were able to get this game when it wasn't all flat-out pitching," said Torborg, who watched his own pitching staff throw shutouts Friday and Saturday. "We scored some runs, did the little things and we picked our pitcher up for a change." Bats Emerging From Hibernation? One reason the Mets exited one series looking forward to another is because their hitting has shown some signs of life since coming into the second half. Yes, the team needed every bit of David Cone's expertise in his 1-0 victory Friday. And, no, the Giants pitchers didn't embarrass themselves in the 3-0 loss to Sid Fernandez & Co. Saturday. But more than one Met sees signs, even in hard-hit outs, that an offensive roll may be at hand. And, at least for one game, the Mets got big hits from players who have been little more than big holes in their lineup. Hitters like Dick Schofield were suddenly not so automatic when it came to making outs. Schofield, practically having a season in a day, drove in a career-high six runs yesterday with a three-run home run and a bases-loaded double. The slight pickup in pulse may prove to be as delusional as other flirtations with serious winning streaks proved to be in the first half. But, Bobby Bonilla swears, this time it could be different. "Starting out from the All-Star break, it's, I don't know, like a new beginning for us," the right fielder said. "We can't come out here thinking we got everything licked, but I know what we went through in the first half was about as good a roller-coaster ride as we could. But we went into the break and came back refreshed." Refreshed, yes, but with a few victories to go just to break even, just to become respectable. The first-place Pittsburgh Pirates are still tantalizingly close, but as Randolph said, the Mets haven't done anything yet. Another opportunity awaits, but it's one the Mets and only the Mets can make golden. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 20, 1992, on Page C00007 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; A Remarkable Three in a Row. Now What?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »