Advertisement By FILIP BONDY and  They sang rhythmic soccer songs for Martin Lopez-Zubero, because the Barcelona fans never before had to cope with a real swim hero: Spanish, American, or Spanish-American. "He's American, but the medal is for Spain," said Marc Capdevila. Capdevila, a Barcelona student, was celebrating the gold medal by Lopez-Zubero in the 200-meter backstroke, outside the Bernat Picornell Pool. "He is beautiful to watch, so he must belong to Spain," he added. Lopez-Zubero, the first gold medalist for swimming in the history of Spain, won his event in 1 minute 58.47 seconds, an Olympic record, with a comeback burst over the final 50 meters to pass Vladimir Selkov of the Unified Team. Then, the real show began. Roar of Approval Lopez-Zubero waved to King Juan Carlos, a friend, who watched from the balcony. He marched to the medal stand amid a roar of approval from Barcelonians and Madridenos alike. Spanish and Catalonian flags waved from everywhere as the Spanish national anthem reminded everybody that Zubero-Lopez, a native of Gainesville, Fla., had chosen to swim for Spain, instead of for the United States. Advertisement "I was born and raised in the United States," Lopez-Zubero said. "But I'm very much Spanish. I was raised Spanish at home. I come over here, and I feel part of the country." Advertisement Lopez-Zubero's father was raised in Zaragoza, so Martin Lopez-Zubero has dual citizenship. Rather than be just another statistic in the United States' medal count (he could easily have qualified for the American team), he decided to follow in the footsteps of his older brother, David, and swim for Spain. David Lopez-Zubero won the first swimming medal for Spain, a bronze in the 100-meter butterfly in 1980 at Moscow. "It wasn't even a decision for me," Lopez-Zubero said. "I just did what my brother did." Lopez-Zubero's gold medal came on an otherwise frustrating day for the American swimming team. The United States women's 400-meter relay team set a world record (3:39.46), but such gold-medal medal favorites as Janet Evans and Matt Biondi, both defending champions, were beaten.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Olympic Games have often provided competitive opportunities for athletes with dual citizenship. But in most cases, the scenario involves American competitors who might not otherwise qualify for a berth on United States teams. American basketball players have competed for Puerto Rico and such countries as Canada and Israel. Italy's hockey team at the Albertville Olympics last February had a number of Americans. Mary Pierce, a top-ranking women's tennis player, is competing here for France because of differences between her father and officials of the United States Tennis Association. The toughest part for Lopez-Zubero did not occur in the pool, but afterward in the interview room. For some time, he has denied rumors that he did not even know how to speak Spanish. Suddenly, Spanish journalists were peppering him with questions, testing his vocabulary. "Would you repeat that?" Lopez-Zubero said, after one lengthy question. "You want me to speak slower?" the Spanish newspaper reporter said. "No," Lopez-Zubero said, defensively. "I just wasn't listening. I'm on another planet right now." Whether or not his Spanish was up to snuff, his swimming certainly was. His top competition, Royce Sharp of the United States, never even qualified for the finals. Nobody else could challenge Lopez-Zubero's kick, which was just fine for the spectators. "The excitement and noise put more pressure on me," Lopez-Zubero said. "That's why I didn't come to Barcelona until the last few days. It's much quieter in Florida." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 29, 1992, on Page B00009 of the National edition with the headline: BARCELONA: SWIMMING; It's a First! Lopez-Zubero Strikes Gold For Spain.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »