Advertisement By JAIME DIAZ and  Pamela Wright of Scotland emerged from Oakmont's sloggingly long course today with a three-shot lead among players who finished the second round of the 47th United States Women's Open. Because of lightning, play was suspended late today with 42 players still on the course. They will complete their rounds Saturday morning, after which the 36-hole cut will be established. The 28-year-old native of Aboyne in northeast Scotland, who took last week off to watch the British Open on television, shot a two-under-par 69 to finish 36 holes at three-under-par 139. Her closest pursuers among those who had finished were Dawn Coe and Donna Andrews, who were at even-par 142. Advertisement The L.P.G.A.'s rookie of the year in 1989, Wright does not exactly strike fear in the hearts of the field with her presence at the top of the leader board. She has yet to win in America, and her best finish in four United States Opens is a tie for 32d in 1989. Precedent Is Ample Advertisement At the same time, Wright by winning would join a long list of players -- 5 among the last 13 winners -- who made the United States Open their first victory in America. They were Liselotte Neumann in 1988, Laura Davies in 1987, Jane Geddes in 1986, Kathy Baker in 1985, Janet Anderson in 1982 and Jerilyn Britz in 1979. "It would be great to keep the tradition going," said Wright, who was an all-American at Arizona State. "If I'm in the same situation after the third round, I may start thinking about that." Wright, who grew up playing the great linksland courses in Scotland, which require that the bounce of the ball be carefully judged, said she prefers American-style courses that demand and reward long carries. Oakmont, which is playing extremely long because of heavy rains, is such a course.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "It's difficult, I think that's why I like it," Wright said of Oakmont, which was founded in 1903 and has been the site of more national championships than any other course in America. "I like the rough, and I like the pot bunker effect. I find it quite refreshing to actually walk into a bunker and not just walk onto it." Plenty of Practice Wright had serious dealings with 4 of Oakmont's 167 bunkers today and emerged with her round intact. On the 378-yard third hole, she exploded long from a greenside bunker but got up and down to save her bogey. On the 430-yard 10th, the most difficult hole, she hooked her drive into the rough and against a wall of a bunker. She duffed her 5-wood second shot about 20 yards, but managed to get another 5-wood onto the green and took two putts for her only other bogey. On both the 12th and 13th holes, Wright saved pars from greenside bunkers. All the while, she was putting beautifully. Fortunate to have completed her first round on rain-plagued Thursday (those who did not had to finish their opening rounds today), Wright opened the day by hitting a 4-iron to 20 feet on the 419-yard par-4 first hole and making the putt. She birdied the fourth from 10 feet, the par-5 ninth and 17th from six feet. On the uphill 390-yard 18th she recovered from a 7-wood tee shot into the rough by hitting a 50-yard wedge shot within three feet. "I putted well, but I don't think about it, I just do it," said Wright. "I could never sit here and say it's just another tournament, out of respect. But I can't say, "Oh my God, this is the Open.' That would kill you." The sun finally came out today, but Oakmont remained a grinding, unforgiving test of nothing less than solid shotmaking. "You just have to keep hitting the ball as solid as you can, because this course isn't going to accept anything less," said Geddes, the 1986 champion who had a one-under-par 70 for a total of 143. "I think the golfers who are good ball-strikers and have a lot of confidence in their swings and love to play in these kind of conditions because it really rewards the best player." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 25, 1992, on Page 1001032 of the National edition with the headline: GOLF; A Tip of the Open Hat To Scotland's Wright.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »