Advertisement By MURRAY CHASS In 15 minutes, the Los Angeles Dodgers solved their starting pitching shortage. The Mets should be so efficient. While the Mets look to unload some of their excess hitters for the pitchers they need to bolster their question- marked starting rotation, the Dodgers can sit back with relief and the knowledge that they have rebuilt theirs by signing two free agents, Orel Hershiser, their own, and Tom Candiotti. Another of the Dodgers' free-agent pitchers, Mike Morgan, signed with the Chicago Cubs earlier Tuesday evening. In the latest flurry of free-agent signings this week, the Chicago White Sox re-signed Dan Pasqua yesterday, giving him a three-year contract for $6 million. Pasqua, an outfielder-first baseman who began his career with the Yankees, was the fifth free agent to sign in three days and the sixth over all. The Dodgers executed their double-barreled action late Tuesday evening, agreeing with Candiotti on a four-year, $15.5 million deal after concluding a three-year agreement with Hershiser that guarantees him $10 million but could be worth $14.4 million if he is healthy and effective enough to make 35 starts a season. Advertisement "It was a rather incredible turn of events, when you think of all the pieces and complications and hoops you have to move through," Fred Claire, the Dodgers' general manager, said by telephone from Dodger Stadium yesterday. "It has an appearance of having all happened in a 15-minute span, and indeed it did. But the 15 minutes was the result of more than a month of being in the works." Advertisement The Dodgers, who had no guarantee that they could retain even one of their two free-agent pitchers, had further weakened their corps of starters by trading Tim Belcher to Cincinnati for Eric Davis last week. They then were left with Ramon Martinez and Bob Ojeda as the only members of their 1991 rotation. Claire said he had been talking steadily with Hershiser's agent, Robert Fraley, and had also tried to re-sign Morgan. Wegman Signing Changed Thinking "We felt we were close to a deal before he moved into free agency," Claire said. "But the morning when he could talk to other clubs, I picked up the paper and read of Bill Wegman signing for four years, and I knew that certainly changed things." The Dodgers and Morgan were close on a three-year deal, but the Milwaukee Brewers gave Wegman a four-year contract to keep him from becoming a free agent. That deal gave Morgan reason to ask for four years, but the Dodgers wouldn't go to four. The Cubs, meanwhile, ignored their bad experience with free agents this season and gave Morgan the fourth year and an average annual income of more than $3 million, a remarkable coup for a pitcher who this year had his first winning record in a 10-year career, 14-10, and has a .392 career percentage based on a 67-104 record. Candiotti was in a position in Toronto similar to the one Morgan had in Los Angeles. The Blue Jays didn't want to give him a four-year contract. The Dodgers began pursuing the knuckleballer because they expected they would lose Morgan. 'I Liked What I Saw'  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "We had lunch with Tom here at the stadium Monday," Claire related. "I liked what I saw, and I liked our reports on him. We talked a lot Monday and throughout the day yesterday. Then last night the news came that Morgan had signed. I was talking to Bob Fraley throughout the evening and reached agreement on Orel." Claire also had been negotiating with Rockne Lucia, Candiotti's agent, throughout the day Tuesday. "We made an offer to Tom," Claire said, "and about 15 minutes after we reached agreement with Orel, the call came back that they accepted our offer." Advertisement The Dodgers will pay the 34-year-old Candiotti a $1 million signing bonus and salaries of $3.5 million the first year, $3.4 million each of the next two and $4.2 million the fourth year. Why were the Dodgers willing to give Candiotti the fourth year they wouldn't give Morgan? "We're all part of the marketplace," Claire said. "I felt that we could not have signed Tom without going to four years. I don't like four years with pitchers, but the type of pitcher Tom is our risk is better with Tom. He's a knuckleball pitcher and may pitch 10 more years. We'd like to give pitchers no more than two years. At one time it worked. But it doesn't now and wouldn't have in this case." Candiotti had a 13-13 record with Cleveland and Toronto this year, but he had a 2.65 earned run average, the lowest of his eight-year career and a full run under his career 3.69 e.r.a. The Blue Jays' failed to retain him with their three-year offer for $10.7 million. Pat Gillick, the Toronto general manager, said he had spoken with Richard Moss, Jack Morris's lawyer, but didn't say if he would pursue Morris seriously. Blue Jays Expect Stieb's Return "We're optimistic that Dave Stieb is going to be back," Gillick said, referring to the team's veteran starter, whose season was cut short by a back ailment. Hershiser, who won the Cy Young Award in 1988, came back this year from serious shoulder surgery and compiled a 7-2 record in 21 starts. But, Claire said, he didn't throw more than 90 pitches in a game. That is why the contract is heavily loaded with incentives for games started. "The contract," Claire said, "is based on the thought that the type of pitcher he is if he is healthy, it gets him into the realm of the very top pitchers because he set the standard when he was healthy." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 5, 1991, on Page B00029 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Dodgers Put on Big Rush To Secure 2 Top Pitchers.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »