Advertisement By WILLIAM N. WALLACE DAVE JENNINGS, who punted so long (1974-1987) and so well for the Giants and the Jets, has been long critical of the way the National Football League statisticians rank punters. He was recently joined by JAN STENERUD, the Hall of Fame kicker, and they derived new formulas, on punting and place-kicking. The result was the Desenex Most Valuable Foot awards, which for the 1991 season go to JEFF JAEGER, the place-kicker for the Los Angeles Raiders, and JEFF GOSSETT, the Raiders' punter. The N.F.L. ranking had Washington's CHIP LOHMILLER as the No. 1 kicker and Miami's REGGIE ROBY as the foremost punter. The Jennings-Stenerud formula for punting ranks punters in three categories: gross average distance, net average distance (subtracting return yards and 20 yards for each touchback punt), and number of punts downed inside an opponent's 20-yard line. Advertisement The N.F.L. ranks by gross average only. Under the Jennings-Stenerud system, Roby finished third behind Gossett and RICH CAMARILLO of Phoenix. SEAN LANDETA of the Giants tied for 13th with JEFF FEAGLES of the Eagles.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Gossett combined a top inside-20 factor with a second in net average and fourth in gross average to win by 9 points," Jennings said.. Advertisement The Jennings-Stenerud place-kicker formula ranked kickers on percent of successful field goals, the average distance of the attempts and the average starting point of the receiving team after kickoffs. The latter was a radical innovation. The rankings in each category were done on the basis of weighted points in descending order, with bonus points given for "clutch' field goals within the last two minutes. Under that formula, Philadelphia's ROGER RUZEK was second; TONY ZENDEJAS of the Los Angeles Rams was third, and Lohmiller was 11th. Jaeger and Gossett will receive crystal trophies and $20,000 United States Savings Bonds will go in their names to the N.F.L. Alumni Dire Need Fund. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 10, 1992, on Page C00002 of the National edition with the headline: SIDELINES: BEST FEET FORWARD; New Awards for N.F.L. Kickers.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »