Advertisement By DAVE ANDERSON and  When the Braves scored two quick runs in the first inning tonight, the Pirates were wondering if another 10-3 loss might develop. But over the last nine innings of the Pirates' 3-2 victory in 10 innings, Randy Tomlin, Bob Walk and Stan Belinda combined for a three-hit shutout that helped square the National League Championship Series at 2-2. "I just told myself, 'Calm down, keep the ball down,' " Tomlin was saying now. "The pitches they hit in the first inning were up." Tomlin, a little left-hander who had an 8-7 record during the season, didn't learn he was starting tonight's game until Saturday. "I was probably more nervous after I found out I was starting than I was tonight," Tomlin said. "It was a big game for us. If we lost it, we would've been down 3-1. It's hard to do, but I tried to approach it like any other start. I felt really comfortable out there. More so than I thought I would be." Quick Recovery Advertisement After allowing four hits in the first inning, Tomlin blanked the Braves on two hits through the sixth inning. Walk replaced him at the start of the seventh. Advertisement "When the Braves got the two quick runs," Walk said, "I thought, 'Here we go again.' It was important for Randy to get in a groove and mow people down and that's what he did. We knew we couldn't let the Braves score after that, but you don't really think about that. "When you do think about it, that's when you mess up. You don't want to put any pressure on yourself. And with all that was going on, it was almost fun out there." Walk, a lanky right-hander who had a 9-2 record primarily as a starter, was alluding to the Atlanta fans' tomahawk chop and chant.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "A couple of times I walked off the mound and looked around," he said. "It was exciting. It was like being a in a college football game." 'Sid, Sid, Sid' In the eighth inning, with Sid Bream pinch-hitting with two out, the Atlanta rooters had a new chant: "Sid, Sid, Sid." It lasted for several minutes until Bream, an ex-Pirate, flied out. "With all that 'Sid, Sid, Sid,' " Walk said, "that was really great." In his two innings, Walk permitted a seventh-inning single by Lonnie Smith, but when the Braves' left fielder attempted to stretch it into a double, he was thrown out by Jose Lind, the Pirate second baseman. Lind had hurried to get the ball that skidded past Andy Van Slyke, the center fielder, who had narrowly missed a shoestring catch. Belinda, a tall right-hander who had a 7-5 record with 16 saves in 60 appearances, completed the nine-inning shutout with two hitless innings that included a one-out walk to Mark Lemke in the ninth. But until Mike LaValliere's game-winning pinch-single, the most memorable moment for the Pirates was Tomlin's emotional spiking of the ball lined back at him by Rafael Belliard to end the sixth inning, his last. "We never saw Randy do anything like that before," shortstop Jay Bell said. "I think it gave us a little spark." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 14, 1991, on Page C00003 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; After Braves Get Lead, Pirate Pitchers Recover.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »