Advertisement By TIMOTHY W. SMITH and  Caught in a wave of defensive changes that Jets coaches hope will help sweep them back into the playoffs this season, linebacker Mo Lewis can't help but go with the flow. Actually, that's what his new job at right outside linebacker is all about. "We can do some different things with him," Bruce Coslet, the Jets' head coach, said today at the team's training camp. "We can blitz him more. He can cover the back coming out of the backfield. That's no problem. He's the type of athlete that can flow behind the line of scrimmage and make a lot of plays." As a third-round draft pick from the University of Georgia last season, Lewis wowed Jets coaches in training camp with his brilliant physical gifts and quick grasp of the left outside (strong-side) linebacker position. He started all 16 games, finished fourth on the team in tackles with 76 and led the team in forced fumbles with three. His showing in the 1991 training camp was so good that Bobby Houston, who competed with Lewis for the starting job, knew early on that he was out of the running. 'Special Breed' Advertisement "Mo is a special breed," Houston said. "I have to give him all the credit in the world. It was frustrating for me. Last year was my second year and I wanted to play, but Mo just did an exceptional job. From Day 1, you saw Mo making plays. He was just lining up playing. You can teach him and teach him and teach him, but he's the one that made the plays." Advertisement Lewis said that it was taking him a little longer to pick up his position this time. "This year is more responsibility than last year," Lewis said. "Not only do I have to learn what the defensive line is doing, I also have to know what the defensive backs are doing. On run support, I need to know if the free safety and strong safety come up, can I fast-flow or can I hold back and wait for cutbacks? This year, it's taking me a little bit more time than last year to get in the flow of the game." If all that sounds complicated, consider that Lewis has to run it through his mind in a split second before committing himself on the play. Because of that, he said, he does not yet have a strong feel for how he's adapting to the change. "I won't know that until the first preseason game because right now everything is not as fast as it will be in the game," he said. "My tempo may be a little faster than the offensive line. I'm not getting a real picture. I'm getting half a picture.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Once I get to the preseason and they stick me out there, I know I'm going to make some mistakes, but if I can correct them by halftime, I know I'm going to do a decent job." Lewis said the defensive coaches told him at the conclusion of last season that he would be switching sides. His move is just one of four that the Jets hope will strengthen their defense. Free safety Erik McMillan is competing with Mike Brim for the left cornerback position. Tackle Dennis Byrd is working at defensive end. And Mark Gunn is working at Byrd's former tackle position. Lewis said he was excited about his move. "They wanted to see my full potential," Lewis said. "When I was playing Sam," he continued, using Jets terminology for strong-side linebacker, "at times it got very boring because if they don't run the ball to your side you sit there on the line waiting for a reverse or a cutback. Other than that you pursue the ball." "I figured the coaches said let's see if Mo can get in here and play a little Will" -- weak-side linebacker -- "and let's utilize his speed for blitzing." Now that Lewis has moved to the right, the Jets are hoping they'll see exceptional play from someone else at the left outside linebacker position. Rookies Kurt Barber, a second-round draft pick, and Glenn Cadrez, a sixth-round pick are competing against Houston for the starting job. Thus far, Houston is leading the pack.  EXTRA POINTS Kicker RAUL ALLEGRE remains in Mexico tending to his ailing mother. Coach BRUCE COSLET said he did not expect Allgre to return in time for the scrimmage Saturday against Washington at Lehigh University. "I told him to take as long as he needed," Coslet said. "Whether or not he kicks against the Redskins in the scrimmage is not significant. Then, the next day is off and then we go back to the practice schedule. He'll be back early next week, if not this weekend." . . . The Jets splashed around in the rain for two practices Thursday and Coslet said it was worthwhile. He explained: "Quarterbacks have to learn to secure the snap from the center. The footing by the little skilled guys is critical, and the pass rushers, too. It's just something else you have to go through because if you're at a game, you have to play in it." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 24, 1992, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: FOOTBALL; Jets Ask Lewis To Learn New Job.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »