Advertisement By THOMAS GEORGE Earlier this season, National Football League scoring was down and everyone wondered why. On Sunday, three of the victorious teams did indeed muster 17 or fewer points. But nine winners scored 26 or more and eight of the losers in those games scored at least 20. An explanation? *Ten games featured quarterbacks who passed for at least 248 yards. The passing game usually takes longer to develop than the running game, and with six games left for most teams, it has developed. Strong passing leads to more scoring and allows more time for scoring than a grind-it-out running game. *At this juncture in the season, offensive coordinators have plenty of film to dissect on defenses and their tendencies. There is a major difference between using current game film and devising an offensive scheme against a defense you have filmed only from preseason action and from games the previous year. In general, offenses get the upper hand in studying film because they know where the ball is going. *Coaches feeling the playoff heat are loosening strings and allowing quarterbacks to shoot for big plays. Early in the season, tentative coaches do not want to bury their team's chances with interceptions. Later, they find that attacking with big pass plays and gambling on fourth down provides their best, and perhaps only, chance to make it to the post-season. Advertisement From the start of the season to their current 10-0 record, the Redskins have been high above the rest of the league in offensive repertory and execution. It was not that long ago -- try 1989 -- that quarterback Mark Rypien was benched for fumbling snaps, for fumbling after taking big hits and for making poor reads. But Rypien's six touchdown passes against the Atlanta Falcons here on Sunday in a 56-17 romp and his 442 passing yards put him on the same level as his unbeaten team. Advertisement There are few question marks left about him now. In his last 25 starts, he is 22-3. And he earned more respect on Sunday from his teammates and fans here for the passes he did not throw. With five minutes remaining in the contest, Rypien was on the sideline, out of the game. He was also just four yards short of Washington's all-time, single-game pass-yardage mark, set by Sammy Baugh 43 years ago. But when Coach Joe Gibbs offered to put him back in so he could break the record, Rypien declined. Afterward, he spoke of Baugh in terms approaching reverence. "I mean, you're talking about a great, great player here for many years," said Rypien, who did break Baugh's league mark for average yards per completion in a single game, based on a minimum of 20 attempts. Rypien added that he was not that interested in his own individual achievements and did not want to risk an injury that would hurt the team. Actually, Rypien knows those achievements will come anyway, in conjunction with team success. In displaying modesty, he pleased Gibbs. He gave his teammates a rare example of selflessness and unity. He showed why the Redskins are becoming a solid bet to finish the regular season 16-0. And in one dynamic afternoon, he probably vaulted himself into the Pro Bowl. Alive, and Kicking Fourty-five seconds were left. The Houston Oilers lined up for a game-winning 41-yard field goal in the Astrodome that would beat the Dallas Cowboys. Al Del Greco, on his way to Alabama last week to work as a box salesman for a packaging company, entered for the potential winning boot. He missed.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "I saw flashbacks," said Oiler Coach Jack Pardee, who had agreed to the waiving of kicker Ian Howfield after Howfield missed in the final seconds of regulation in Houston's 16-13 overtime loss to Washington here last week. But Del Greco, signed last Tuesday, recovered to beat Dallas in overtime, 26-23, on a 23-yarder. "I'm sure guys were thinking, 'Here we go again,' " Del Greco said. "I'm glad I've got a job for another week. If we lost this game, I don't know." John Carney's 54-yard winning kick with 18 seconds left, which lifted San Diego past Seattle, 17-14, rivaled Del Greco's in thrills. Carney's longest field goal until Sunday had been from 48 yards. He had missed all three of his career attempts from 50-plus yards, and the 54-yarder was a team record. Raiders Know Where to Look Advertisement The Raiders continue to show that, as an organization, they are very good at identifying unheralded players who will contribute in big ways. Rookie tight end Andrew Glover and a Plan B signee, James Fitzpatrick, provided key plays in the Raiders' 17-16 victory at Denver. Glover caught an 11-yard scoring pass from Marcus Allen and Fitzpatrick blocked a game-ending 48-yard field-goal attempt by David Treadwell. The victory was critical for the Raiders, further tightening the race in the Western Division of the American Conference. Denver and Kansas City are 7-3, the Raiders 6-4. Denver plays at Kansas City on Sunday; Kansas City plays at the Raiders on Dec. 22 in the regular-season finale for both teams. Both Glover and Fitzpatrick fit in the Raider mold: Glover is 6 feet 6 inches, 242 pounds and Fitzpatrick, an offensive linemen, is 6-8, 320 pounds. Glover is from Grambling, Fitzpatrick from Southern Cal. At Grambling, Glover was a tight end in football, a center in basketball and a triple-jumper in track. The Raiders loved his growth potential and the fact he has good hands and an easy-moving frame. They drafted him in the 10th round. Fitzpatrick was the Chargers' No. 1 pick -- the 14th selection over all -- in 1986. He has played guard, tackle and center and joined the Raiders last season. Credit the Raiders for identifying both and for sticking with them. Of course, Fitzpatrick's Southern Cal roots did not hurt his chances. In their history, the Raiders have featured 35 Southern Cal players. In second place on their all-time roster are three schools that follow with 12 -- Nebraska, Washington and Colorado. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 12, 1991, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: ON PRO FOOTBALL; Suddenly, End Zone Is a Popular Place Again.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »