Advertisement By GEORGE VECSEY THEY like him now, now that he has gray hair. Most players pluck at their racquets between points but John McEnroe claws at his head, and now there are patches of gray coming through from all that angst over the years. There is still excruciating tension in the man as he paces the lines, hearing every titter, quivering when some lout clicks a flash camera. But the gallery likes him now, and even the British public sympathizes with John McEnroe, now that he is a father of three and 33 years old and coming back from the edge. He does not seem to be playing mind games when he says this might be the last time around. Before he stays home to watch the children, and the Lakers, and the Knicks, in his bicoastal old age, he is giving a present to himself and the Wimbledon fans who once sneered at him. My wife, who gets around town while I am working, was at the theater the other night, and the woman seated next to her was raving about the superb match that day between McEnroe and Pat Cash. My wife said she had been under the impression the English did not like McEnroe, and the woman replied: "Oh, we've gotten past that. We like him for his tennis." Advertisement They have forgotten the time the officials denied him a membership in the All England Club, a privilege usually accorded all Wimbledon champions, forgotten that the tabloids called him Super Brat and McNasty, forgotten that he seemed to embody all that was gauche with the colonies. Advertisement That was then, a decade ago. Now they like John McEnroe, who has scrambled his way to the semifinals today, against Andre Agassi, when other former champions like Becker and Stich and Edberg and Cash and the truly aged Connors could not. They have learned not to put mayonnaise on absolutely everything, and they have begun to realize that modern Britain just might be a multiracial society, and now they even incorporate John McEnroe into their speech patterns. My other set of eyes and ears, my wife, was watching the telly the other day when a female public official, whose name she missed, said, "As Mr. McEnroe would say, 'You have got to be kidding.' " They quote him now. He belongs to them, for the 14 times he has played here. The first time was in 1977, when he was an 18-year-old Stanford freshman with reddish hair fluffed out in early Bozo the Clown 1970's glory, and he reached the semifinals as a qualifier, which nobody else has ever done.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. He is back in the semifinals after a straight-set 6-2, 7-6, 6-3 victory over Guy Forget that reminded us that nobody in this generation has had a touch like McEnroe's. The match had been delayed by rain on Wednesday, with McEnroe up a set and even, 5-5. Just before Forget fired the first serve yesterday, McEnroe muttered at the chair umpire: "No flash, please." The umpire summarily warned the crowd not to shoot flash pictures. Mac was getting back in control. Court 1 is an intimate space, with a tiny press row directly on the sideline, one of the great seats in sports journalism. To sit there is to intrude on a player's private agony. McEnroe grunted on most points, but nobody dared hector him the way Martina Navratilova and the chair umpire did to squeaky Monica Seles on Center Court yesterday. If anybody had tried, it would have brought out the Queens street punk in McEnroe, which nobody, but nobody, wants to see. Advertisement McEnroe tried to help the officials in the tie breaker when Forget whistled a ball into the far corner of the service box. Mac approached the chair and could be heard to say: "That ball was a foot long. You can't possibly, in your wildest dreams. . . ." We expect to hear that phrase on the BBC in a day or two. In the bad old days, McEnroe might have expended further energy on a tirade, but now he knows there are limits -- not necessarily to bullying, but to energy. Later, McEnroe would say proudly, "I could have easily thrown that away, and I didn't." He also survived a set point that whistled out at his feet at the baseline. He said it was out by a foot, but maybe inches seem as big as feet for McEnroe, the way Ted Williams saw a strike zone, the way Magic Johnson sees openings on the court. The third set was out of some dream, with Mac hitting volleys so delicate that he resembled a village lamplighter extinguishing the gaslights after dawn. The terrible emotion was gone from the match, and it was now an artistic exhibit. I heard a man shout "Allez, John." The crabby Yank is charming the entire European Economic Community. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 3, 1992, on Page B00007 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; The English Now Adore The Old Man.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »