Advertisement By ALEX YANNIS and  After tough courses in the Catskills, Long Island and Syracuse, the Michelob New York State Open golf tournament came to the foothills of the Adirondacks today for the first time in its 15-year history, and the Highland Golf Club course proved to be a friendly host as 26 players shot better than par. That's quite a contrast to last year's tournament, when only two players beat the Concord's Monster course. The leader is 37-year-old Mike Caporale, the assistant at North Hills Country Club in Manhasset, L.I., who matched his career-best round with a six-under-par 66. Caporale, a native of Springfield, Mass., turned to golf after he failed to make the pro ranks as a hockey player. Until today, he has had little success in pro golf as well. Caporale, who moved to Long Island two years ago, moonlighted as a restaurant worker in Florida for five years to support himself because he made little money from golf. He tried six times to qualify for the PGA Tour and failed every time. He struggled while trying the Canadian and European tours as well as Florida's mini-tour, but he found plenty of success this morning on the 6,794-yard Highland course. Advertisement "I feel I can shoot under par every day here," Caporale said. "I drive it well and all you need here is hit short irons to the greens." Advertisement The course is only four years old and it is rather forgiving. In the words of Bobby Heins of Westchester's Old Oaks Country Club, who shot two-under 70, it is "a course that takes away bogeys." Pro Turned Businessman  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Jim Roy of Bellevue Country Club in Syracuse, who is alone in second place with a four-under 68, made just one bogey to go with five birdies. Four of his birdies came on the par-5's. The 32-year-old Roy has the status of a pro, but he has been in the mortgage investment business in his native Syracuse for the last five years and he has played little golf. Roy played the PGA Tour in 1983, but lost his card after one year. He also played the mini-tour for two years without much success before going into the mortgage investment business in 1986. "Like a lot of the guys on the tour, I fiddled around with my swing too much instead of concentrating on the end result," Roy said. "Golf is still in my head, but I'm happy in my business that I may apply for amateur status." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 22, 1992, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: GOLF; Caporale's 66 Sets Pace In Friendly Adirondacks.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »