Advertisement By FRANK LITSKY and  On Wednesday night, when Dave Brown, the Giants' anointed quarterback of the future, finally reported to training camp, he was assigned a dormitory room. His roommates were three ballboys. This morning, at his first practice, teammates rubbed thumb and index finger together, the universal sign for money and a fitting gesture for a new millionaire. At noontime, at his first lunch in the team dining room, his spaghetti sauce was surreptitiously spiked with Tabasco sauce, courtesy of Bart Oates. Welcome to the National Football League, Dave Brown. Studying at Home Five weeks ago, the Giants took Brown on the first round of the N.F.L.'s supplemental draft. After he had missed the first 24 days of training camp, they signed him Wednesday night to a four-year contract worth $4.6 million. That includes a signing bonus of $1.6 million and a first-year salary of $400,000. Advertisement He had been studying the Giants' playbook at his home in Westfield, a 25-minute drive from training camp, and he had been working out every evening with longtime friends at the field of his old high school there. Hours after he got here, he was studying with Jim Fassel, the offensive coordinator. Fassel was impressed that Brown could identify sub defenses that sometimes cause problems for veteran quarterbacks. Advertisement Brown has always been known as a smart quarterback. But at 6 feet 5 inches and 215 pounds, he will need more than brains. "I'm far behind," he said. "I just have to learn the offense. And the way we drop back here is much different from college. At Duke, we took five steps, then a crow hop, like in baseball. Now it's just five steps and throw. So I find myself off balance when I throw." Stationary Target In this morning's practice, while the Giants' other quarterbacks were working in seven-on-seven drills, Brown was dropping back and throwing to a stationary target, either Mark Ingram or Stephen Baker. Then Brown watched the rest of practice, following the plays from a script and asking the other quarterbacks on each play what they were reading in the defense. Coach Ray Handley said he hoped Brown would be ready to play the preseason game against the Jets nine nights from now.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "For now, we just want to expose him to the offense and see how he handles himself in practice," Handley said. "We won't have much time after the Jets' game to be experimenting. He'll probably have a sore arm in a few days because we will have him throwing a lot of balls." Brown has kept a close watch on the Giants. He was in Giants Stadium last Sunday night for the team's preseason opener, against the Cincinnati Bengals. Recognized by Fans "I sat in my friend's seats, in the first row behind the Giants' bench," he said. "Some people recognized me. A man and his son saw us and were arguing: 'That's him.' 'No, that's not him.' " Brown also saw first hand how the public can treat Giants quarterbacks, how it can boo Jeff Hostetler and give a standing ovation to Phil Simms. "I thought that was a little unfair," Brown said. "I don't want to get off on the wrong foot with the fans, but that shook me up a little bit. Advertisement Could Brown handle that booing? "I hope so," he said. "I think they both have handled it well. Being from here, I think I understand." For now, Brown has other concerns, like what he can afford with his money. "I'm probably going to get a new car," he said. "I don't know what kind yet, but I saw Lawrence Taylor with a nice Lexus. Now I'm driving a 1990 Jetta with bad brakes." EXTRA POINTS JUMBO ELLIOTT of the Giants, sidelined for three weeks by a bulging disk in his back, returned to practice Thursday morning but not in the afternoon. He will probably miss the preseason game against the Cleveland Browns in Giants Stadium on Saturday night. . . . RODNEY HAMPTON has a minor swelling in his inflamed right knee and ran but did not practice. . . . COREY MILLER, limited by a sore shoulder, is expected to be ready for the game. . . . ED McCAFFREY has inflammation around a disk and will remain sidelined until the swelling goes down. . . . WILLIAM ROBERTS, recovering from an irregular heartbeat, is running and on schedule to return to practice Monday. . . . The Giants and the Browns worked separately Thursday morning and together in the afternoon. On-field fights erupted between AARON PIERCE and DAVE DAVIS of the Giants in the morning and NICK FINEANGANOFO of the Giants and MIKE WISE of the Browns in the afternoon. On Friday, the Giants will have a walkthrough in the morning, the Browns in the afternoon. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 14, 1992, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: FOOTBALL; Reality Sets In for Giants' Brown.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »