Advertisement By FILIP BONDY and  It was an arid day for legends of the water, for the big-name United States swimmers who were supposed to turn the Bernat Picornell Pool into a slick American medals factory. Janet Evans, invincible in the 400-meter freestyle for six brilliant years, lost to a German travel consultant, Dagmar Hase, who considered not even coming to Barcelona. Evans sobbed with disappointment at her silver medal and said the heartbreaking experience might help her on some future job interview. Matt Biondi lost badly, finishing fifth behind Aleksandr Popov of the Unified Team in the 100-meter freestyle, his signature event since the 1986 world championships. No Regrets for Biondi "I don't feel bad," said Biondi, whose time of 49.53 seconds was more than a second off his world record. "I have nothing to apologize about, no matter what happens. I had a great career. Everyone has a time to come and go." Advertisement Biondi and Evans thus followed the unfortunate lead set in the first two days of competition by the younger American favorites, Jenny Thompson and Anita Nall. They all went out too fast and too nervously in a shallow pool that does not accommodate speed. They all fizzled and faded before they touched the contact pad at the end of the Olympic rainbow. Advertisement But all was not lost for the swim team, which once owned the Olympics like the Catalonians own Barcelona. The United States won a gold medal today by setting a world record of 3:39.46 in the women's 400-meter freestyle relay. Thompson sprinted the final leg in 54.01 to pass the Chinese anchor, Jingyi Le. Lea Loveless took a bronze in the 100-meter backstroke. No Answers Yet But the Americans have not yet found the answers to the latest Olympic round of European and Asian challenges. "The rest of the world is still outfoxing us," said Jon Urbanchek, an assistant coach for the United States team. "Look how happy they are." They were, indeed, delighted. Popov, with his graceful, change-of-pace freestyle stroke, could hardly believe he beat Biondi. "I only saw myself winning in the last 20 meters," he said, after touching the wall in 49.02, ahead of Gustavo Borges of Brazil at 49.43. Borges did much of his training at the University of Michigan, just as Martin Lopez-Zubero did his practicing at the University of Florida. Lopez-Zubero won a gold medal for Spain, not the United States, with an Olympic record of 1:58.47 in the 200-meter backstroke. It was that sort of day for the red, white and blue. A Hungarian, Krisztina Egerszegi, won her second gold medal with an Olympic record of 1:00.68 in the 100-meter backstroke, and her teammate, Tunde Szabo, took a surprising second place.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The greatest shock, however, was delivered by Hase, who won the gold in 4:07.18 after Evans tied up in the final 50 meters and struggled in at 4:07.47. Hase almost boycotted the Games because her teammate at Magdeburg, Astrid Strauss, was not selected for the team after facing accusations of drug use. Advertisement "I never expected to win," Hase said. "I swam three seconds faster than my previous personal best, and I could never expect that." Evans was emotionally drained as she faced reporters, then hugged her father. She had not lost a 400-meter freestyle since the 1986 Goodwill Games, a total of 18 victories in major national and international competitions. "Everybody said watch the Australians, watch the Chinese," Evans said through tears. "You have to watch everyone. The Olympics are where people do amazing things. I could feel her coming." No Finger Pointing Although several of her teammates blamed the media for putting too much pressure on the United States women's team, Evans would not blame anybody. "When you haven't been beaten in six years and you're the Olympic champion, of course people will think you'll win," Evans said. "Expectations weren't too high. "Going through this will help later in life," said Evans, who won three gold medals in the 1988 Olympics in Seoul. "Job interviews, whatever." Evans and Biondi will both race here again, in other individual events on Thursday. When they hit the water this time, they will be just two more athletes in bathing suits. "Everyone expects one nation to dominate, and it's not going to happen," Evans said. "These other nations come in with better time drops, pointing to the Olympics. We have to point to our trials." Trials. Meets. Olympics. It never used to matter for Evans, in the 400-meter freestyle, at least. Now, it did. And that hurt. She said she wasn't crying, even while the tears flowed down her cheek. Finally, she begged out of the interview room. Advertisement "I kind of got dragged in here, and I'd like to see my coach," she said. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 29, 1992, on Page B00010 of the National edition with the headline: BARCELONA: SWIMMING; Biondi, Evans Falter As U.S. 'Invincibility' Receives Another Blow.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »