Advertisement By JAIME DIAZ and  Playing in a rarified zone that kept him impervious to pressure, cigar-smoking Larry Laoretti put together the performance of his heretofore obscure life today to run away with the United States Senior Open. In the improbable tradition of underdog victors like Jack Fleck in the 1955 United States Open -- but graced for the last two rounds with the kind of unerring control made famous by Ben Hogan -- Laoretti shot an airtight three-under-par 68 on a damp Saucon Valley Country Club course. He finished with a 72-hole total of nine-under-par 275, four shots better than Jim Colbert. Tied with Al Geiberger at six under par after the first 11 holes, Laoretti took command when he hit an 8-iron within 3 feet on the 574-yard 12th hole and made the putt for his first birdie of the day. After Geiberger's bogey, it gave Laoretti, the 53-year-old former club pro, a two-shot lead that he increased with birdies on the 16th and the 18th. Advertisement "For someone from Larry's playing background to stand the pressure of the U.S. Open and play a bogey-free last round -- that is really hard to do," said Colbert, who was never closer than three shots. "I would have bet a lot of money he couldn't do that." Advertisement By winning his first tournament in his three years on the Senior Tour, Laoretti became the first Cinderella winner of a 13-year-old championship whose most obscure victor had been the highly respected Dale Douglass. Before today, the biggest victory Laoretti had ever achieved came in 1989 in a small sectional tournament among club pros in southern Florida. "Ever since I was a kid, I'd always wondered how I would do coming down to the end of a U.S. Open," Laoretti said. "But today, I never really thought about it. To me, it was just another golf tournament. But I got my name on the trophy next to Nicklaus's, and that's what I like to see." He also liked seeing the winner's check for $130,000, by far the biggest payoff of his life. The victory will also generate considerably more, as Laoretti is sure to receive endorsement offers from the makers of two of the staples in his thus far simple life -- cigars and motor homes. "I think the key to victory is to smoke six or seven cigars, drink a little gin at night and have a good wife that loves you," said Laoretti, with his wife, Susan, at his side. As remarkable as the victory was the manner in which it was achieved. The laconic Laoretti floated above the expected pressure like so much smoke from his ever-present cigar. Like Fleck, when he defeated Hogan in '55 at the Olympic Club in San Francisco, Laoretti appeared to be in a nirvana-like "Open coma."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Even as experienced winners like Geiberger, Dave Stockton, Gary Player and defending champion Jack Nicklaus, who closed with a 67 to finish in a four-way tie for third at 280, were taking their best shots early, Laoretti consistently bombed his driver down the middle of the fairway and hit his irons to the middle of green. Under the most intense pressure of his career, the fast-playing Laoretti hit 17 greens in regulation, missing only the 18th, where he holed a 30-footer from the fringe to crown his victory. "You know what you have to do, so just go ahead and do it," explained Laoretti of his rapid-fire style. "The more time I have to hit a shot, the worse I'm going to hit it. I don't want any negative thoughts when I'm over the ball." Advertisement Despite usually being an admittedly weak putter, Laoretti also resisted any negative words about Saucon Valley's slick greens. He three-putted only twice over the entire 72 holes. He began the final round tentatively, missing two birdie putts inside 8 feet on the first eight holes. But on the ninth, he moved his hands slightly ahead of the ball and began to stroke the ball more positively with his slightly overlength 41-inch long putter. "I was just thinking like I had all week -- patience," said Laoretti, who was the picture of matter-of-fact composure under a wide-brimmed straw hat. "I thought somebody might make a charge, but nobody did. I didn't have any apprehension whatsover. I didn't feel any pressure." In his wake were several big names who could only acknowledge that they had been beaten by great golf, if not by a great player. "Golf is not like other sports," said Player, who had a closing 70 to tie for third. "But for the man to play nine-under is just incredible. When you do the things he did, you are meant to win." Not one to overanalyze, Laoretti was content to bask in his caddy-yard swing, his split-handed putting stroke and his club pro roots. They had been more than enough to beat some of the greatest names in the game. "I don't really know how I did it," he said. "But I fooled them, didn't I?" We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 13, 1992, on Page C00001 of the National edition with the headline: GOLF; Laoretti Lights Up the Senior Open.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »