Advertisement By HARVEY ARATON and  Not surprisingly, Charles Barkley got into the Olympic spirit this afternoon by smashing an intentional elbow into the chest of the skinniest member of the Angolan team. Leave it to the 250-pound Barkley to pick on a 174-pound economics student from a third-world, war-torn nation who has spent many a Wednesday night back home in Luanda searching the television dial in search of his favorite forward from the National Basketball Association. That's right, the one, the only, and the occasionally ugly: Sir Charles. The United States Olympic basketball team, which will face its first real test Monday night against Croatia, was predictably awesome in its Olympic debut today. But it was quite another impression that Barkley made on 24-year-old Herlander Coimbra, the opening day crowd here at the Palau d'Esports and his United States teammates. Coimbra was shocked that Barkley would "make violence" with him, the fans who cheered everyone else booed Barkley and some of the other Dream Team players decided to join in. "If he keeps this up, they're going to throw him out of the Olympics," Michael Jordan said of Barkley after the United States highlighted a 116-48 rout of the African champion with a 46-1 first-half run. "We've already created some ill feelings here, and that didn't help." Advertisement David Robinson said, "We're trying to tell Charles that he can't get too much out of control." In an effort to restore some semblance of Barkley's diplomatic credibility, if that's possible, it should be noted that he did agree to make reparation following the game. As the teams approached their dressing rooms, the forgiving Coimbra motioned to Barkley and asked if they could pose in a picture together -- a picture that would certainly be worth at least a 1,000 words with family and friends back home. Advertisement Barkley said Coimbra had hit him in the head as he barreled in for a fast-break dunk that gave the United States its 30th and 31st successive points and a 38-7 lead. Coimbra said he was merely attempting to block Barkley's shot. After the dunk, and Barkley's trademark hanging on to the rim, Coimbra turned to head upcourt when Barkley moved alongside his left shoulder and thrust his right elbow into the upper portion of the Angolan's chest. Barkley was hit with an intentional foul. Coimbra hit the free throw that interrupted what would have been a 46-0 run. "If somebody make violence with me, it is important that I not react to the violence," said Coimbra. "Sport is not violent. It is supposed to be friends forever." 'Eye for an Eye' Not according to Barkley, who led the United States with 24 points and described the Coimbra episode as kind of a religious experience. "Eye for an eye," said Barkley. "It's a ghetto thing."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Apart from the fact that it was the Dream Team's first game on this world stage, that it was already hopelessly out of the Angolans' reach, Barkley's pointed elbow failed to take into account the difference between a ghetto and an actual war zone. Angola happens to be a true representation of the old-fashioned, if no longer relevant in this age of commercialization, Olympic ideal. Its presence at the games is a stunning triumph in itself. The Angolans, who won the African qualifying tournament last February, have no players taller than the 6-foot-6-inch Coimbra. Victorino Cuhna has been coach of the national team since 1974, when Angola claimed its independence from Portugal. He is prideful of his knowledge of the game and, in the 1990 world championships, his teams lost games to Canada by 2 points, Puerto Rico by 3 and to formerly powerful Yugoslavia by 13. Six of his players play professionally in Portugal, although Cuhna described the quality of play there as "nothing." All of them are from Luanda or live there, to keep as far away from the civil war, most of which is being fought in the south. "The war, my friends, has destroyed everything," said Cuhna, who has flown his team over bombed-out cities and bridges, and kept it a presence internationally through corporate sponsorship in the United States. Advertisement Cuhna had been quoted earlier in the week as believing his team had a chance to come within 35 points of the United States, if his players kept their heads. His reasoning was a belief that N.B.A. all stars don't play defense, which Coach Chuck Daly was happy to use in his pre-game and motivational speech, as if he needed one. Offensive About Defense By the end of the game, despite the Dream Team's utter domination after being played to a 7-7 standoff, Cuhna remained unconvinced. As he was being interviewed by members of the American news media, a voice said in passing, "So we don't play defense?" The voice belonged to Scottie Pippen. "I'm sorry, you don't, you only run fast breaks," Cuhna answered, and adding that his players lost their poise when confronted by the size of the United States centers, Robinson and Patrick Ewing. But not by Barkley and his angry elbows. "Oh, we don't get upset because Charles Barkley does the same thing in N.B.A. games," Cuhna said, proving he did know something about the league after all. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 27, 1992, on Page C00001 of the National edition with the headline: BARCELONA: BASKETBALL; Barkley's Elbow Fouls a U.S. Rout.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »