Advertisement By AL HARVIN and  With only 1 minute 43 seconds left to play in the American Conference championship game here today, there was still time for Denver's David Treadwell, Gary Kubiak and Steve Sewell to walk out of Rich Stadium as heroes. This was just after Kubiak, in to relieve injured quarterback John Elway, had just fallen backward into the end zone with a 3-yard touchdown and Treadwell, the Broncos' place-kicker, had booted the extra point that cut the Buffalo lead to 10-7. Treadwell then successfully executed an onside kick, and Steve Atwater recovered the ball to set up Denver at its own 49-yard line with 1:38 showing on the clock. There was plenty of time for the Broncos to score a touchdown and win the game, or to at least get within field-goal range and force overtime. The Frustration Game "I was hoping that we were going to be able to score a touchdown," said Treadwell, a third-year pro out of Clemson, who had missed three field goals in the first half. "And after we recovered the onside kick, I was excited and said maybe I can redeem myself, but it was just one of those days -- extremely frustrating and extremely disappointing." Advertisement In the first quarter, with the wind at his back, Treadwell had a 47-yard field-goal attempt sail wide left. In the second quarter, Treadwell missed twice, from 42 and 37 yards out, with both kicks hitting the right upright of the goalpost and bouncing away. Advertisement "I couldn't hit two off the uprights again if I tried," he said. "I've never even done that in practice before. It seemed if I played the wind, the ball didn't move, and if I didn't play the wind, the ball didn't move. On the last two kicks, the wind was a factor. I hit the last one the best and from my perspective I thought it went past the post, but then to see it glance off the upright, I couldn't believe it." The 30-year-old Kubiak, who came to Denver as a rookie in 1983, as did Elway, and who had already announced his imminent retirement, said: "I was very positive. I felt like the man upstairs was saying, 'This is your last shot and it's going to be positive.' " And for the most part, the day was positive for Kubiak. Not only did he score the game's only offensive touchdown, but he completed 11 of 12 for 136 yards, surpassing both Elway and Buffalo's Jim Kelly in the statistical department. Kubiak completed 5 of 6 passes to Vance Johnson for 64 of the 85 yards on the drive that he capped with his touchdown. Johnson ended up as the game's leading receiver with 8 catches for 104 yards.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "John and I came here the same year, so I've always played as a backup to him, but they have never made me feel like a backup in Denver," Kubiak said. "I told myself, 'John, I'm going to pay you back for giving us so many thrills, but it just wasn't going to happen.' " The reason it didn't happen was that after the onside kick, Kubiak hit Sewell with a 7-yard pass over the middle, but Bills cornerback Kirby Jackson made the last and the largest defensive play of the game for Buffalo. Jackson forced Sewell to fumble, then fell on the ball at the Bills' 44-yard line. "I don't know who hit me," said Sewell. "I'm not sure where the ball was. All I know is I lost it, and I was trying to find it. I saw one of our players there and I was hoping he was getting on it." Jackson described the play this way: "We ran the zone defense, and I saw the guy getting ready to throw to Sewell, and I just broke up on the ball. I hit him and I stripped the ball from him. When I looked up the ball was right beside me. So I went and got it. I was just thinking to make the tackle and let the clock run a little bit." Advertisement Said Sewell: "It bothered me. It's going to bother me probably for the rest of my life. People just don't forget things like that." Chances are Kubiak and Treadwell won't soon forget either. They can all probably empathize better with Buffalo's Scott Norwood, who missed a field goal in last January's Super Bowl but today kicked the 44-yarder that made the difference. "Treadwell's a good kicker and they wouldn't have gotten here today without him," were Norwood's words of consolation to a colleague. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 13, 1992, on Page C00005 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL; 3 Would-Be Heroes Fall Just a Bit Short.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »