Advertisement By JASON DIAMOS and  When the Nets started their western road trip, things were looking better for the franchise than they had in years. The young team had just rallied to defeat the Phoenix Suns for their fifth consecutive victory and were within two games of uncharted territory: the .500 mark. Whatever they were doing right, they left the formula at home. For a second consecutive night, the Nets played virtually no defense, allowed their opponent to score seemingly at will, and exhibited a minimum of emotion. The result was a third successive loss, 128-95, to the Phoenix Suns. "You've got to be in it, to be taken out of it," Nets Coach Bill Fitch said. "We were never in it." How bad was it tonight? With New Jersey trailing by 30 midway through the third quarter, Derrick Coleman -- not renowned for his long-range accuracy -- launched a 3-pointer that missed the rim by about the same distance as the shot was taken from. A disgusted Fitch could only hang his head as he summoned in the reserves who would finish the game. The Nets got 49 points from the bench. "We couldn't get anything going tonight," Coleman said. "We know they play great at home. They just jumped on us early and didn't let up." Oh, What a Difference Advertisement The Nets were so bad in front of the Arizona Veterans Memorial Coliseum sell-out crowd of 14,496 tonight it was hard to imagine that this was the same team that had won 12 of 15 and was challenging for an Eastern Conference playoff berth seven days ago. Advertisement "Everything we do is a team effort. To beat them last week, everybody had to contribute," Fitch said of New Jersey's 106-104 victory over the Suns at East Rutherford, N.J. Of course, beating the Suns in Phoenix is no mean feat; Phoenix has won 16 in a row at home. Tom Chambers and Kevin Johnson were unstoppable, scoring 31 and 25 points, respectively, during limited action. And Phoenix totally dominated inside, outscoring the Nets inside the lane, 72-20, for the game. "We have to protect our home court," said Dan Majerle, the All-Star forward, "We wanted to take them out of it early and not let them come back in the stretch like they did last week. And we did it." New Jersey, which fell to 19-24, was led by Drazen Petrovic, who scored 17 points. The Suns ran the floor in the first half as if they were practicing fast-break drills, scoring repeatedly on lay-ins and dunks, en route to a 72-49 halftime advantage. Phoenix scored a season-high 43 points in the first quarter against a sieve-like Net defense, shooting 85 percent on 17 of 20 field goals, most of which went uncontested. Phoenix strung together a team-record 14 consecutive field goals in the first quarter.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. After Sam Bowie hit the game's opening shot, nothing went right for a New Jersey team that picked up right where it had left off from last night's loss in Sacramento. Bowie would miss his next 5 shots -- the Nets would hit only 11 of 32 from the field in the first period -- and Phoenix was off. Suns Dominate Early Chambers, the Suns' on-again, off-again scoring machine, was on again tonight, scoring 15 points in the first quarter and 25 for the half, as Phoenix went on a 23-5 run early (including 11 straight). Kevin Johnson, fresh off an All-Star slight, had 9 first-quarter assists (Phoenix had 23 in the half), and he finished the first 24 minutes with 13 points. Bowie was the Nets' only bright spot, with 10 first-half points on 4-of-12 shooting. Coleman was limited to only 10 first-half minutes after picking up three first-quarter fouls, and he had only 6 points at the intermission after taking two shots. For the half, New Jersey shot only 36 percent to the Suns' 73 percent, and the Nets were outrebounded, 28-20. The 23-point halftime lead was the game's biggest to that point as the Suns performed layup drills again and again. Advertisement Entering tonight's game, New Jersey had six road victories in 19 outings, equaling its total number of victories away from home last year. And New Jersey was reeling from Tuesday night's 124-118 loss at Sacramento, in which the lowly Kings outshot the Nets, 60 percent to 42 percent. The standout power forward, Coleman, was New Jersey's only bright spot Tuesday night, scoring 33 points while grabbing a season-high 14 rebounds. REBOUNDS KENNY ANDERSON, the Nets' rookie guard, played nine minutes, but left late in the third quarter after taking an elbow to the jaw from the Suns' KEVIN JOHNSON. "I got hit in the jaw," Anderson said of another incident earlier in the game. "K. J. went baseline and hit me again and I saw stars. I have to see the dentist tomorrow, I can't even smile." A Nets assistant asked Johnson to talk with Anderson after the game to let him know that the blow wasn't intentional. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 30, 1992, on Page B00012 of the National edition with the headline: PRO BASKETBALL; New Nets Look Like Old Nets As Suns Get 33-Point Victory.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »