Advertisement By PHIL BERGER Is Joe Maffia the man who would have been King? Maffia is the former controller of Don King Productions whose recent allegations in affidavits have been raising questions about the way King conducts his business of boxing. Only a couple of months ago, Maffia was himself attempting to match Julian Jackson, a fighter under contract to King, against James Toney, the International Boxing Federation middleweight champion. Toney's manager, Jackie Kallen, said of Maffia: " I got a call from him, and he was trying to put a deal together for James to fight Jackson. He told me Julian was trying to get out of his contract with King. Maffia said he was now working with Julian, separate from King." Maffia worked for King from July 1986 until this past September. Jackson is the World Boxing Council middleweight champion. Advertisement "Maffia told me," said Kallen, "that Julian would be available soon. He was really nice to talk to. Friendly and nice. I asked him, 'Do you have the right to speak on Jackson's behalf?' He told me he thought he would soon. I referred him to Bob Arum." Advertisement Arum, a rival of King's and the promoter for Toney, confirmed that Maffia did speak with him about a Jackson-Toney bout. "I told him," said Arum, "I'd be interested only if Jackson was free and clear of King." A person close to Jackson said that at the time Maffia was offering Jackson $1 million to fight Toney. But Jackson did not bolt King, and in April he fought for King on a Mexico City card, earning $100,000 for a knockout victory over Ron Collins. The 31-year-old Jackson has said that his biggest purses under King have been twice for $150,000. "Joe Maffia professed to have some line on a Jackson-Toney fight with Home Box Office," said the person close to Jackson, who requested anonymity. "He said he could put together the money and, because he was new at this, offered to get up a letter of credit to show he was for real." Since Maffia's allegations about King, and since two Federal Bureau of Investigation agents armed with a subpoena visited King's Manhattan office and examined documents in connection with "an ongoing investigation," Jackson has been seriously considering leaving King. According to Jim Chamberlain, Jackson's Las Vegas-based attorney, King's 1987 contracts with the fighter specify that King controls Jackson for a period of two years following the loss of his title. That long-term arrangement is illegal in Nevada, said Chamberlain, but until now Jackson has been reluctant to challenge King.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "And," said Chamberlain, "while such a contract is illegal in Nevada, unfortunately that's not true everywhere else. " Advertisement Chamberlain said that since Federal authorities reported their investigation, Jackson has had a number of offers from rivals of King's. "I don't know what's happening with King," said Chamberlain. "It sounds like Fort Apache, like he's surrounded. As for these others, they're offering Julian far more than he's ever made in his life." Arum acknowledged that he had offered Jackson a match against the winner of Toney's Aug. 29 title defense against Mike McCallum. Reportedly that offer was for $750,000, but it came with a condition. "I told his lawyer," said Arum, "I won't do anything until Jackson has a court order saying he's free to take the fight." By the Numbers In case you're wondering how Donovan (Razor) Ruddock leapfrogged in the World Boxing Council ratings over Riddick Bowe, from No. 2 to No. 1, here is an explanation provided by Ruddock's promoter, Murad Muhammad. According to Muhammad, Ruddock had neglected to pay a sanction fee of $150,000 to the W.B.C. for his second Tyson bout, last June. When Ruddock anted up the money earlier this year, he was moved ahead of Bowe in the rankings. What's curious about all this is that W.B.C. rules call for sanction fees only in title bouts. Tyson-Ruddock II, although a 12-round fight, was a nontitle match. Maybe not so coincidentally, King has a financial interest in Ruddock, while the W.B.C's president, Jose Sulaiman, has a history of moves that are user-friendly to King. That aside, examine for a moment Ruddock's case on merits. His ascent in the ratings came after losing twice to Tyson last year and looking amateurish and out of condition in a victory over Greg Page in February. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 19, 1992, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: BOXING: NOTEBOOK; Dealing and Wooing One of King's Fighters.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »