Advertisement By MARSHALL SCHUON WHEN I think of the car that I have most wanted in my life, it is a model that was neither particularly exotic nor very rare. But it is still there in my fantasy, a new 1960 Cadillac coupe standing on the showroom floor at Mayo Motors in Trexlertown, Pa., glittering in its coat of dark turquoise paint. At the time, and for me, the price was outrageous and the moment passed. What is very much with us in 1992, though, is a resurrection of the long-gone Cadillac's color. Along with a lot of other bright shades, blue-green is In with a capital I. There is a turquoise car in the driveway right now, in fact. It is one of Mazda's latest offerings, an MX-3 sports coupe that is part of an intensive overhaul of the company's product line. And, when the roll-out is done, Mazda will have five new and completely redesigned models in the American market. The MX-3 is a front-wheel-drive hatchback that is reasonably quick, that can carry four passengers in a pinch and that delivers as much as 35 miles per gallon. Advertisement According to the company, the new coupe "promises to give younger buyers a new way to express their individuality while staying within their budgets." Those budgets, of course, will have to be in the mid-teens, since base prices range from $11,000 to $13,800. Advertisement The variation has to do with the two models offered, a base MX-3 and the fancier MX-3 GS. The basic car also carries a four-cylinder engine, while the GS is powered by the only V6 in the small-sport segment. The tester was a GS with the 1.8-liter six, which also is the smallest mass-produced V6 sold in America. Mazda engineers say the primary reason for development of the little six was its smoothness, particularly when compared to a four-cylinder engine of the same size. Like the engine, the body was also made as smooth as possible, with design aided by a supercomputer. Slick contours and a low front end, plus short overhangs front and rear, give the car a solid, sporty feel and good aerodynamics, helped on the GS by a spoiler across the hatch. From the front, there is a look that is almost animal, with cat's-eye headlights and a wide stance. Bright trim is absent, even around the grille, which is simply a slot across the nose. Bumpers blend into the body and are the same color, and the car has the alloy wheels that are de rigueur in this sort of vehicle.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Visibility is good, thanks to large glass areas, the biggest of which is the rear hatch. Unfortunately, the hatch is heavy as well, and even though it rises on gas struts, loading is a chore. The liftover is part of that problem, since it is almost waist-high, meaning that cargo has to be lifted and then put down into a sort of well. The back seat does fold flat, and the cargo cover that is hinged to the hatch can be removed. That improves carrying capacity, but the car is still less than practical as a hauler. Inside, there are problems, too. First off, the car is low, somewhat cramped and hard to get into. The front buckets also are stiff, with very short cushions, and leg room is at a premium. Those things are factors of turning a small coupe into a four-seater, and they make a trip of any length something to think twice about. But rear passengers are even more unfortunate. The seatback is less a cushion than it is a padded wall between the interior and the hatch. The other big complaint in the MX-3 is that it lacks an air bag and thus has motorized seat belts, with all the attendant annoyance and danger. Advertisement As an economical driver's car, though, the MX-3 may be worth considering, either with the standard five-speed transmission or the optional automatic. With 15-inch tires, anti-roll bars front and rear and fully independent suspension, it handles well. And, while the 1.6-liter four produces only 88 horsepower, the V6 puts out 130 horses, more than sufficient in a coupe that weighs only 2,500 pounds. The black interior also was nicely put together, with color accents in the seating areas and soft gray cloth on the overhead. The tester's three-spoke wheel had cruise-control buttons on the right side of its hub, and the dash was neatly arranged around an optimistic 150-m.p.h. speedometer. The GS also had full power equipment, including central locking and a power sunroof, and those are things to value in a small car. Most of all, of course, I liked the turquoise paint. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 12, 1992, on Page 8008014 of the National edition with the headline: ABOUT CARS; A New Sporty Coupe From Mazda.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »