Advertisement By FAY VINCENT On Saturday, May 2, at Comiskey Park in Chicago, the White Sox honored some 25 former Negro League baseball players who, because of the accident of birth, were never able to play in the major leagues. The irony, of course, is that while these aged but quietly dignified men were standing on the field to receive long overdue recognition, the rest of the country was wondering whether the rioting in Los Angeles would spread to other cities. The tribute in Chicago had been planned months in advance, and therefore there was a poignancy, in some sense awful, to what was taking place at the ball park. Before the ball game, the old-time ballplayers came out on the field and mingled with the rest of us around the batting cage as the White Sox players and the Texas Rangers went through the customary pregame drills. I sat in a golf cart, and soon Jimmy Crutchfield came over and sat with me. Crutchfield, 82 years old, is widely considered to have been one of the finest outfielders ever to play in the Negro Leagues. One of the reporters asked him what this day meant to him, and the old gentleman was so moved by the effort to express his feelings that tears came to his eyes and he was briefly speechless. The Proudest Achievement We chatted about his career and some of his great moments in baseball. At one point he reached for his wallet and took out a faded clipping. The article from a 1930 Chicago newspaper described the East-West All-Star Game. Proudly he pointed me to a paragraph that described a catch he had made as "one of the greatest catches in baseball history." And then came a moment I will never forget. "Jimmy," I asked, "what are you proudest of?" "Commissioner, the thing I'm proudest of and what I tell my wife all the time is that I never hated anyone," he said. Advertisement The statement was so simple, so stark, I had to pursue it. "Look, Commissioner," he said, "we never talked about the system. We grew up in it. We never knew anything different. We knew we couldn't change it and we never thought it would change. In the fall we would play the white guys and they couldn't change the system either. It wasn't our fault and it wasn't their fault. The fact is we just never talked about it." Advertisement And so the ceremony went on. Crutchfield and the others took their bows and I was left to think about what Jimmy had said.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. While other cities were on alert and Los Angeles was burning, Jimmy Crutchfield was proud to tell me, "I never hated anyone."  Contributions Overlooked In fact, the Negro League players I have come to know have expressed little bitterness at their treatment by Major League Baseball. Still, their contribution to baseball and to our society has been largely ignored. For decades, they kept baseball alive in the black community, and they have every reason to be thanked by all of us, and especially by current black players. Major League Baseball honored 75 alumni from the Negro Leagues at Cooperstown last summer, and I took that opportunity to apologize to those wonderful gentlemen for all the indignities to which they had been subjected. Somehow my apology seemed like pretty thin soup. But perhaps Jimmy Crutchfield's memorable statement can be our theme as baseball tries to play a tiny role in helping our country address the consequences of decades of racism. The ghetto, the parlous level of minority unemployment and the lack of opportunity for young black Americans all bear some resemblance to the problems these Negro League players faced before 1947 when Jackie Robinson was finally able to play for the Brooklyn Dodgers. Jimmy Crutchfield knew then and still knows that hatred is not a solution. Instinctively he knew, as did his fellow players, that hating could produce no useful result. Major League Baseball, of course, has a long way to go to redeem itself by affording minorities better opportunities both on and off the field. And while baseball has a full set of its own problems, Jimmy Crutchfield might have given all of us a beginning point as we try to come together to build a more decent nation. I think Jimmy can be proud of much more than he admitted. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 17, 1992, on Page 8008011 of the National edition with the headline: BACKTALK; Toward an Even Playing Field for All.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »