Advertisement  Cubs 5, Phillies 2  PHILADELPHIA, June 19 (AP) -- Derrick May hit two homers and drove in five runs and Danny Jackson pitched six and one-third strong innings for his third straight victory as the Chicago Cubs beat the Philadelphia Phillies, 5-2, tonight. The Cubs have won seven of their last eight games. In his last nine games, May, a rookie, is 11 for 32 with a double, three homers and 11 runs batted in. He started the season with two home runs during brief call-ups the last two seasons. Jackson (3-7) gave up two runs and four hits before leaving in the seventh inning with one out and runners on first and third. Jeff Robinson relieved and retired the side. Paul Assenmacher pitched one and one-third innings, and Jim Bullinger, a rookie, got the last out for his sixth save. The Cubs snapped a 2-2 tie in the sixth against the rookie starter, Brad Brink (0-3). Ryne Sandberg doubled and advanced to third on a single by Andre Dawson. May followed with his second homer of the game. Advertisement The Cubs took a 2-0 lead in the second on Mark Grace's one-out single and May's home run. Philadelphia tied it in the fourth when Wes Chamberlain led off with a single and Darren Daulton hit his 12th homer. Daulton leads the National League with 51 r.b.i. Expos 2, Pirates 1 Advertisement PITTSBURGH (AP) -- Ken Hill gave up one run in seven innings as Montreal beat Pittsburgh. It's the first time this season the Pirates have lost consecutive games to a National League East team. The Expos have won four of their last five. Marquis Grissom started the game with a single off Doug Drabek (5-5) and stole second and third, raising his major league-leading total to 33. Grissom scored when Moises Alou singled to center. John Vander Wal's double scored Alou. Drabek came into the game with a streak of 23 shutout innings against Montreal, including 17 this season. In eight innings, Drabek gave up five hits, walked none and struck out eight.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Pirates scored in the first off Hill (6-4) when Jay Bell doubled, advanced on a wild pitch and scored on Andy Van Slyke's sacrifice fly. Hill, who gave up six hits, entered the game with a 2-7 career record against Pittsburgh. Braves 3, Reds 2 ATLANTA (AP) -- Pinch-hitter Damon Berryhill's single with one out in the 10th inning gave Atlanta the victory and snapped Cincinnati's seven-game winning streak. Pinch-hitter Deion Sanders started the winning rally by drawing a leadoff walk from reliever Dwayne Henry (1-2). Sanders went to second on a sacrifice by Mark Lemke and moved to third on a wild pitch before scoring on Berryhill's hit, which deflected off right fielder Paul O'Neill's glove. The victory went to Kent Mercker (2-4), who struck out four and walked one while facing five batters. It was Atlanta's eighth victory in nine games and its 17th in 20. Cincinnati has lost only five of its last 24 games. The Braves moved within 3 1/2 games of the first-place Reds in the National League West. The Reds tied it, 2-2, in the eighth on Chris Sabo's two-out r.b.i. single. Bip Roberts opened the inning with a single off reliever Marvin Freeman and advanced to third on a infield groundout by the pinch-hitting O'Neill and a fly ball by Barry Larkin. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 20, 1992, on Page 1001032 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL: NATIONAL LEAGUE; Rookie's Homers Give Cubs All They Need.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »