Advertisement By JOSEPH DURSO For the 125th year, New York racing will migrate north this week for its midsummer interlude in the countryside in the serene old community of Saratoga Springs. And starting Wednesday for the next five weeks, 30 stakes will be staged in 30 days, more than $4.7 million in purses will be paid and half a dozen fillies and colts will take giant strides along the road to 1992 championships. It is pastoral, it is picturesque, it is the stately old race track among the trees at the foothills of the Adirondack Mountains. It is also perilous for form, the graveyard of champions, the place where Secretariat was outrun and where, half a century earlier, Man o' War was outrun for the only time in his career. But it is the place where important races are held almost every day, and it is a milestone on the road to the ultimate goal in any year, the Breeders' Cup and the Eclipse Awards. "Saratoga is the place," said Angel Cordero Jr., who reigned as the leading jockey in town for 14 years. "To race there is a privilege. It's like going to the World Series." Angel Cordero Day Cordero has been riding there for 30 years, but he retired two months ago after suffering multiple injuries in a four-horse collision, so he will be returning this year in a new role: horse trainer. But the next-to-last day of the meeting, Aug. 30, has been designated Angel Cordero Day to honor the 49-year-old superstar and to shake down the memories of the days when he was king. Advertisement The style and splendor of Saratoga racing used to shine for four weeks each August. It was the upstate resort where the wealthy basked in midsummer, just as they basked in Palm Beach in midwinter, and they shipped their horse stables to both places for social and racing seasons in the sun. And in more recent years, the Saratoga scene was enriched when the Performing Arts Center was created as the summer home of the Philadelphia Orchestra and the New York City Ballet. Artistic and Financial Charms Advertisement Because of its artistic and financial charms, the New York Racing Association last year extended the Saratoga meeting to five weeks, and the public kept coming. In the first week of the longer season, attendance averaged just over 18,000 people a day. For the entire meeting, it averaged 24,713, which was double the normal summertime attendance at Belmont Park. The racing highlight of the season will be the Travers Stakes, on Aug. 22, a landmark race that's been run for 123 years. It offers a purse of $1 million and a chance for the winner to capture the lead in the larger race for the championship of the 3-year-old division. And it is wide open this year: Lil E. Tee, who won the Kentucky Derby, has been sidelined with injuries. Pine Bluff, who won the Preakness, has been retired with injuries. A.P. Indy, who won the Belmont, hasn't raced since. So, for the survivors of the spring classics and for some late bloomers like the speedy colt Furiously, the Travers will be the reunion for the class of '92, and they are already headed for Saratoga from as far away as California. Casual Lies Is Back  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Remember Casual Lies and his energized owner-trainer, Shelley Riley? They were the "country folks" from Pleasanton, Calif., who ran second in the Santa Anita Derby, second in the Kentucky Derby and third in the Preakness. The colt hasn't raced since he finished fifth in the Belmont Stakes in June, when he suffered a cracked hoof in his left front foot. But he is headed for Saratoga to rejoin the wars of the 3-year-olds. "He won't run in anything before the Travers," Riley said last week from her barn near San Francisco. "He was out of training for just under a month, so he didn't lose a lot of conditioning. The Triple Crown was his prep." Some of the other colts headed for the Travers will probably use the Jim Dandy on Aug. 2 as a prep race, including Agincourt, winner of the Belmont Futurity and the Dwyer Stakes. And for 3-year-old fillies, the main event will be staged in the Alabama Stakes on Aug. 15. The leading candidate, Turnback the Alarm, won two of the three races in the recent Triple Tiara series at Belmont and will be taking dead aim at a division championship. Package for City Dwellers For city dwellers whose itinerary does not include Saratoga this summer, New York racing once more will provide its version of the next best thing: Saratoga at Aqueduct. All nine races every day for all 30 days will be telecast from Saratoga to Aqueduct, which is closed for racing from early May until late October. But this year, for the ninth straight year, Aqueduct will be converted into a parimutuel paradise for simulcasting from Saratoga. Parking and admission, both free. Post time, 1 P.M., as it is upstate. No saddling under the trees maybe, no racing in the foothills, no corn on the cob. For that matter, no horses. But 6,500 persons a day went to the otherwise empty track last summer and played the horses 200 miles away in serene Saratoga. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 27, 1992, on Page C00002 of the National edition with the headline: HORSE RACING; At Saratoga, Competition With Style.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »