Advertisement By PHIL BERGER Despite Mike Tyson's absence, Evander Holyfield will defend his undisputed heavyweight title next month. Holyfield will fight what is being termed an interim match, probably on Nov. 23 against a top 10 opponent in either Atlanta or at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas, Nev. Francesco Damiani, a clever boxer from Italy, is mentioned as a likely opponent , but no deal has been made, and other names -- Carl Williams, Alex Garcia, Larry Holmes and Pierre Coetzer -- have surfaced as potential opponents for Holyfield. What this means for Tyson is that his fight with Holyfield is off for now. The parties to the Holyfield-Tyson match -- originally scheduled for Nov. 8 and postponed Friday because of a rib injury to Tyson -- were unable to find a new date in January in discussions that began over the weekend and intensified on Monday and yesterday. TVKO, which has the pay-per-view rights, was aiming for Jan. 10, but according to the TVKO executive Seth Abraham, Caesars Palace -- the live site in Las Vegas for the match -- was booked with of a consumer electronics show. Advertisement Caesars Palace's preferred date, Jan. 17, conflicted with a wrestling pay-per-view show that weekend which, Abraham said "effectively killed" that date as a possibility for rescheduling the Holyfield-Tyson match. Advertisement What crimped the parties to the match was the Jan. 27 trial date Tyson has in Indianapolis, where he faces a rape charge. "We definitely want to reschedule the fight," said Shelly Finkel, Holyfield's manager. "What will probably happen is that Tyson's attorneys will seek a postponement on the trial date. Not due to the fight, but because they are entitled to full discovery. They haven't received the grand jury records yet. When they do get those records, they will ask for an adjournment. At that point, we'll try to reschedule the bout. Or we'll do it after the trial, if Tyson is found innocent.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Yes, there's a possibility the fight will never happen. But that's not our first choice. It's not our fault it's canceled. We had nothing to do with Indianapolis. We had nothing to do with the injury. We're not looking to take advantage. But we're not looking to be penalized." Finkel said that Holyfield was reluctanct to fight outdoors in January in Las Vegas, where temperatures at night can dip down to the 30's or lower. "There hasn't been an outdoor fight that I know of in January in Las Vegas," said Finkel, "Evander did not prefer to go outdoors. If it was the end of the world, maybe. But it wasn't." Final details about the interim match are expected to be announced this week. TVKO's Plan B for the Nov. 8 date -- a card featuring young heavyweights Riddick Bowe, Michael Moorer and Lennnox Lewis in separate bouts -- is up in the air. But the likelihood is that the pay per view date will be scuttled. Bahamas Not Foreman's Forte When George Foreman backed out of his September match against Boone Pultz, saying that he had a basketball-induced leg injury, there were whispers that the real reason was the collapse of the site deal in the Bahamas. Now comes word that the Bahamian site for Foreman's rescheduled bout -- this time against Jimmy Ellis on Dec. 7 -- has come unglued and is being shopped elsewhere. Mancini to Make Comeback Ray Mancini, the former W.B.A. lightweight champion, is headed back to the ring again. According to Lou Falcigno, Mancini's promoter, plans call for Mancini to fight Greg Haugen, also a former world champion, in March. If successful, Mancini would seek a rematch against Hector Camacho, the World Boxing Organization junior-welterweight champion, and then look to fight Chavez. In March 1989, Mancini returned to the ring against Camacho, after a retirement of four years, and lost a decision. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 23, 1991, on Page B00014 of the National edition with the headline: BOXING NOTEBOOK; Holyfield Now Looking At November Title Bout.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »