Advertisement By ALEX YANNIS and  Herb Brooks, who coached the United States Olympic hockey team to a gold medal in 1980, was hired by the improving New Jersey Devils as head coach today in hopes of taking them to the upper level of the National Hockey League. The 54-year-old Brooks, who coached the New York Rangers for four years after a year in Switzerland following the triumph in the Olympics, received a three-year contract. He replaces Tom McVie, who guided the Devils to their best regular-season record, but fell a victory short of eliminating the Rangers in the playoffs this spring. When Brooks was hired by the Devils last season to coach their top affiliate in the minor leagues, the Utica Devils of the American Hockey League, his return to the N.H.L. appeared inevitable, as did the evenual dismissal of McVie. His appointment today comes just weeks before the league's expansion and entry draft later this month and appears to signify a change in direction and coaching philosophy for the 10-year-old New Jersey franchise. With such a highly regarded coach as Brooks and with several talented French-Canadian players available for a trade with the Quebec Nordiques, the Devils are expected to take a leading role in a possible deal for Eric Lindros, hockey's top amateur player. Lindros, drafted by Quebec last year, has expressed a strong desire to play for a higher-profile team in a more lucrative market than Quebec. Advertisement Brooks was hired last year by Lou Lamoriello, the president of the Devils, who said today that he had made the change in coaches because of the changes the league has undergone and will continue to experience. Advertisement "I feel strongly the game will change drastically," Lamoriello said at a news conference. "This is no longer a one-dimensional game. It's a global game." With players from Russia, Sweden, Czechoslovakia and Finland, besides North America, the Devils have a diversity of styles and cultures. "We have players from all walks of life and styles," Brooks said, "and my job is to put them in an environment to maximize their production. We have to be flexible" Lamoriello said the appointment of Brooks should not be construed as an indictment of the coaching job McVie did for the Devils, both at the N.H.L. level and with the team's top minor league affiliate for eight seasons.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Under McVie, who signed a contract a year ago this month, the Devils established or tied several team records this past season, including most points (87), most victories (38) and fewest goals allowed with 259. But they finished fourth in the Patrick Division and did not make it past the first round of the playoffs for the second straight season. Lamoriello said he did not feel it was time to stand pat. He hopes Brooks feels the same. "Interdependency is the word for the day," Brooks said, after stating how he welcomed the opportunity and the challlenge to coach the Devils to a higher level. "This is not the Herb Brooks Show or the Lou Lamoriello Show," Brooks said. "Each and every one of us is inderdependent. We all want our name on the Stanley Cup." Fifth Coach in Five Years Advertisement Brooks is the fifth coach Lamoriello has hired in his five years as president and general manager of the Devils. But this is the first time Lamoriello has committed himself to a coach with a contract for three years. McVie's dismissal drew mixed reactions from a number of players. Some saw the change as a result of the team's failure to capture the seventh and deciding game of the first-round playoff series against the Rangers. Repeated phone calls to McVie's home in Portland, Ore., went unanswered. Lamoriello, who maintained a strong relationship with McVie, said McVie's association with the Devils organization was over. McVie, who is 56 years old, first coached the Devils from November 1983 through May 1984, compiling a record of 15-38-7. His second tour with the Devils started with 13 games left in the 1990-91 season, when he replaced John Cunniff. The Devils went 4-5-4 under McVie and made the playoffs, but were eliminated in seven games by the Pittsburgh Penguins, who went on to win the Stanley Cup. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 6, 1992, on Page 1001031 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; Devils Hope Brooks Spins Meadowlands Miracle.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »