Advertisement By FRANK LITSKY and  No matter what you hear about a possible trade, no matter how the words of Ray Handley, the Giants' head coach, and George Young, the team's general manager, are interpreted, Phil Simms is highly unlikely to go anywhere. When the Giants open training camp Monday, Simms will be their backup quarterback, and when they end their season, barring injury to him or his successor as starter, Jeff Hostetler, Simms will still be the backup quarterback. At age 36, a pro football player since 1979, he can still play, and he desperately wants to play. But the Giants do not want to lose him because starting quarterbacks seldom get through a season unscathed and thus the backup will usually be needed. The Giants know that first hand because their starting quarterback the last two years -- Simms in 1990 and Hostetler in 1991 -- suffered season-ending injuries. Try and Understand On Friday, Handley said that if he were with another team and needed a quarterback, he might approach the Giants because the Giants had five. Some listeners felt he was shopping Simms. Later, Handley said privately that his words should not be misunderstood. Advertisement "We're not looking to trade Phil Simms," the coach said. "It's just that we have a lot of quarterbacks. And a team that needs a quarterback might call us. We got Jeff Carlson in the off season in case we got a fabulous offer for Simms and felt we had to take it." Advertisement Simms chafed over his unaccustomed role of backup last season, although he started the last four games after Hostetler injured his back. Permission Granted After the season, Simms asked the Giants to trade him to a team that would make him a starter. Young even gave him permission to shop himself. But given Simms's age and salary ($1.5 million) and the high draft choice or choices the Giants would want from a team that signed him, no deal was made. And none seems likely now unless a potential Super Bowl team loses its starting quarterback early in training camp and is willing to offer two or three first-round draft choices for Simms.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. So the best quarterback in Giants' history remains a Giant. Although he does not like to talk about his predicament, he wants to play. But he should not be encouraged by Handley's words. "A multitude of things can happen," the coach said. "If someone approaches us with a deal, we have to be prepared for that." The Giants' five quarterbacks are Hostetler, Simms, Carlson, Dave Brown and Kent Graham. Because the Giants took Brown in the first round of the recent supplemental draft, he is sure to survive. Barring injuries to other quarterbacks, that makes Graham, an eighth-round draft choice, superfluous. Assuming Simms stays with the Giants, Carlson may also become superfluous. The Giants, concerned that Simms might retire unless traded, signed Carlson as a Plan B free agent. But team sources say Carlson's passes have lacked zip in off-season workouts, and the Giants may ultimately decide to write off his $125,000 signing bonus and start the season with Hostetler, Simms and Brown. Last year, when Hostetler was rehabilitating from his back injury, Handley said Hostetler would be the starter this year. Handley said last week that all starters, including Hostetler, could lose their jobs with a disastrous training camp. "I've always felt I've had to fight for a job," Hostetler said, "whether I've been a backup or a starter. You can't sit back and take anything for granted. You have to go out and produce. I've never assumed anything, and that hasn't changed since I've become the starter." Advertisement EXTRA POINTS Some of the Giants arrived Sunday afternoon and night, and the others, at least those who were signed, were expected in time for Monday's 10 A.M. meeting with Coach RAY HANDLEY. MATT BAHR drove here Sunday for his second camp of the weekend. The Giants' 36-year-old kicker spent Friday and Saturday in the Catskills at a reunion at Camp Acadia, where he spent summers as a baby (his parents were staff members) and later as a camper and counselor. On Sunday, he roamed the Fairleigh Dickinson campus here on inline skates. "I use them for off-season workouts," he said. "At least it's better than jogging." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 20, 1992, on Page C00002 of the National edition with the headline: FOOTBALL; It Seems That Simms Is a Giant to Stay.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »