Advertisement By HARVEY ARATON and  Angola, a feisty, inoffensive bunch, just happens to be the unfortunate first opponent for the United States men's Olympic basketball team. Consider Sunday's meeting of the best team in Pool A and the worst as an opening-statement game. "I don't know anything about Angola but Angola's in trouble," said Charles Barkley. Motivation for Game 2 Monday night against Croatia? No problem. Toni Kukoc, the 6-foot-10-inch European Magic Johnson, is Croatia's best player and draft property of the Chicago Bulls. At one point two seasons ago, the Bulls refused to renegotiate Scottie Pippen's contract until they were certain Kukoc wasn't coming. Pippen and Michael Jordan have in the past expressed annoyance at hearing how good Kukoc is supposed to be. "If defense is ever going to be played," Jordan said in Monte Carlo last week, "it will be played Monday night." Sitting nearby, Pippen rubbed his hands together. He has already been told by Coach Chuck Daly that he will start the Croatia game, so look for Jordan and Pippen to pay special attention to the 23-year-old Kukoc, who merely wants to be a teammate of these players he idolizes but first might have to be subjected to a form of international hazing. If Rivalry Isn't There, Create It Advertisement Game-by-game motivation was supposed to be a factor here for the United States team, which is supposed to win the gold medal and beat everyone by at least 40 points. The Dream Team apparently has moved to cut off the possibility of boredom by seizing upon natural rivalries and, in their absence, proceeding to make one up. Advertisement Australia, which is not in the United States' pool but is a potential quarterfinal opponent, could find itself in the unenviable position as the opponent that showed disrespect for Magic Johnson. Back when Johnson announced he intended to play in the Olympics last winter, an Australian team doctor raised the issue of Johnson's potentially posing a threat because of his infection with the virus that causes AIDS. A few of Australian players also said they were concerned and the possibility of their refusing to play was raised.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Though mea culpas were soon sounded, they apparently never officially reached the Dream Team. "We'll have a little revenge in our hearts," said Barkley. And just in case anyone thought it was just Barkley being Barkley, Johnson chimed in, "Their captain said they wouldn't feel comfortable playing with me. It doesn't matter. We're going to win by 50 with me or 60 without me. We're going to take care of them." Brazil, Beware For Brazil and its high-scoring forward, Oscar Schmidt, the Dream Team is planning a Friday night nightmare, as the Brazilians accused the United States of not playing hard at the Tournament of the Americas in Portland, Ore., and pointed toward a showdown in the final, only to lose to Venezuela in the semis and be accused by Barkley of tanking. Just for the fun of it, the Americans want to shut down the thoroughly likable Schmidt. Spain? The United States will be pumped to quiet the hometown fans. The Unified Team of the Commonwealth of Independent States? They have a few of the players from the Soviet team that upset the United States collegians in 1988. Lithuania? It has the rest of them. If there is an opponent the Dream Team can't pin a rap on, it is the generic complaint that the team is getting too much attention and thinks itself too important to stay in the athletes' village. In that case, Barkley is ready. "Why don't they take their butt-whipping like people and go home?" said the Dream Team keeper of the Olympic flame. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 26, 1992, on Page 8008002 of the National edition with the headline: BARCELONA; The Dream Begins Rising to the Top.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »