Advertisement By JAIME DIAZ and  A year ago, Nick Faldo was indisputably the No. 1 golfer in the world. With a bullet. He had won two of the four major championships of 1990, taking his second straight Masters and climaxing the year with a bravura performance at the British Open at St. Andrews, Scotland. Afterward, there was talk of greater worlds to conquer, to the point of suggesting -- out loud -- that just maybe the modern Grand Slam was within reach. Perhaps it still is, but it ceased being a topic of conversation where Faldo was concerned some months ago. In 1991, after four years in which he had made the majors a personal stage for one of the most controlled games since Ben Hogan, Faldo finished tied for 12th at the Masters and tied for 16th at the United States Open, the British Open and the P.G.A. Championship. In fact, Faldo won only one tournament, the Carrolls Irish Open. By the end of the year, which essentially concluded with a poor performance in the Ryder Cup, the 34-year-old Englishman had fallen from the top of the Sony Ranking to No. 3, behind Ian Woosnam and Jose Maria Olazabal. Eager to Forget 1991 So it was understandable that Faldo was greeted at the Honda Classic this week with far less fanfare than he encountered at his first PGA Tour appearance last year. He was eager to bury what happened in 1991 while being careful not to raise expectations for 1992. Advertisement "Of course, last year was disappointing," admitted Faldo before his practice round at Weston Hills Country Club today. "But I think you have to look at it at the end of the day and see what you can learn from it. It's always tough at the time because you're a bit teed off. But I finally sat down and said 'O.K., let's forget about all that and learn what we need to do to turn it around.' " Advertisement Faldo attributes his problems in 1991 to a confluence of factors. They included a sparse playing schedule geared solely to preparation for the majors that finally failed to keep him competitively sharp, an experimental exercise regimen that added too much muscle to his 6-foot-3-inch frame, the recurrence of a faulty hip action in his swing that plagued him early in his career and an overly mechanical approach to putting. "My game was just a little bit off in all departments, full stop," said Faldo in the precise delivery that mirrors his approach to the game. "Mentally, I was trying to get back to 100 percent, like in years before where I would turn it on and it would automatically happen. But my swing was off and so was my body, so I was basically trying to get 100 percent out of 80 percent. It put me on overload. I got frustrated with it and couldn't perform." If Faldo has a theme for the new year, it is a return to the tried and true. He is on a more moderate physical regimen that dropped his weight from 215 pounds to a more comfortable 205.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "I think what I learned from last year was that it was amazing how my body changed with such little work," said Faldo. "I'm one of those people who, if I went into a gym, would be making Schwarzenegger movies. I feel I've got it right this time, because I'm back to my original fighting weight." Faldo has also committed himself to a more active competitive schedule, playing the next five tournaments in the United States through the Masters. After a three-week break, he has planned to play nine of the subsequent 11 tournaments worldwide. In the opinion of David Leadbetter, the swing coach who has worked closely with Faldo since 1985, a more relaxed and renewed golfer will emerge in 1992. "Nick didn't get off on the right foot last year, and he could never regain his momentum," said Leadbetter, who spent the entire last week in Orlando, Fla., working with Faldo. "I think the expectations weighed on him a little, and he didn't putt well. 'More Realistic This Year' "He's going to spend a greater share of his practice time on his short game. I think he's going to be a little more realistic this year. He's working a lot more on being less of a perfectionist. I think that's a good adjustment for Nick, and I think he's going to have a very good year." In line with this more sober approach, Leadbetter stopped short of predicting any more victories in majors for his charge. So did Faldo, but not before confessing that Pebble Beach, where he will be trying to win his first United States Open, is one of his favorite courses: "The U.S.G.A. usually finds it tough to create atmosphere, but Pebble Beach already has it." Advertisement He is also looking forward to a return to Muirfield for the British Open, where he won his first major championship in 1987. But in 1992, Faldo is determined not to get ahead of himself. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 12, 1992, on Page B00016 of the National edition with the headline: GOLF; Quest for '91 Grand Slam Left Faldo Out in the Cold.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »