Advertisement By FILIP BONDY and  Under his new contract, Mark Messier earned $21,875 for this one night's work; for this hat trick, and for this desperately needed 5-3 victory by the Rangers over the Washington Capitals. But standing at his locker tonight after the game, with his 4-year-old son, Lion, wide-eyed by his side, it was clear that Messier had performed his three-goal feat for less mercenary reasons. The Capitals, those ice-rink bullies, simply had to be beaten. "We didn't want to go 0 and 4 against a team from our division," Messier said. "It was a different game. You come in here, you steal one from a great offensive team, you've got to be very happy." There were smiles all around from the Rangers tonight, who finally climbed from under the gray cloud that first engulfed them during a six-game playoff humiliation last March. After six losses to the bulky, mobile Capitals, the Rangers came out firing. Advertisement They outshot Washington, 10-1, at the start, took a 4-1 lead into the final 10 minutes of the game, and then held on for a very dear 2 points. The result was closer than General Manager Neil Smith would have liked, but the scoring ended well when Messier tipped in an open-net goal while sliding along the ice at 19:38. Advertisement "The game was a lot more enjoyable when it was over," said Smith, who had criticized his team, then dismantled a significant part of it, after the Rangers were eliminated last season by the Capitals. "We sure seem to keep the fans in the building." The Washington Capitals, tormentors to the end, scored two goals in 23 seconds midway through the third period. For the final 10 minutes of tonight's Patrick Division match, they tried camping in the Ranger zone, buzzing the slot, looking for just one more mistake. But this time, the Rangers did not have the last gaffe. Rattled, but never quite overwhelmed, the Rangers prevailed. "Anytime you have the number of hits we had against them, you're playing hard," said Coach Roger Neilson, who briefly substituted John Vanbiesbrouck for Mike Richter in goal in order to get an unofficial timeout. "They are the most dangerous team on the rush, with their defensemen joining them. But we skated well." Rangers Start Rolling  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. After Messier scored from the slot at 7:20 of the first period, the Rangers strung together a remarkable series of penalty-killing efforts that probably decided the match. They allowed Washington just one shot on goal in six minutes in the first period with the man advantage. The Capitals' power play, ranked first in the National Hockey League going into the game, did not manage a shot on Richter after Messier went out for holding Kelly Miller. The Capitals did not get a shot, again, on a second power play that began less than a minute later. Finally, with Brian Leetch in the penalty box for holding at 14:49, Washington took just one shot at Richter while the Rangers created a more dangerous opportunity at the other end. In the third period, there were a couple of missed backchecking assignments that led to two Capitals goals. But the Rangers settled down, put body on body, and in Neilson's words, "revved it up." They outshot the Capitals, 43-23, for the game. "We played probably one of our best complete games," Messier said. "I was happy to see us play a decent last seven minutes." SLAP SHOTS Advertisement Defenseman JOE CIRELLA scored his first goal of the season in the second period, on a slap shot off a rebound. . . . The Rangers caught a charter flight for Hartford after the game tonight. On Saturday night, they play the Whalers -- the second time this season they have this inconvenient back-to-back city combination. TIM KERR is due back in about three weeks, when the Rangers will have to make some serious personnel decisions about their wings. With even less time available at the forward positions, there is a good chance COREY MILLEN will be given the opportunity to play with the United States Olympic team. MARK HARDY, on playing without a contract for two months before settling on a $375,000 compromise Thursday: "It starts eating you after a while. You can play on emotion for only so long." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 14, 1991, on Page 1001031 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; Messier Hangs Hat Trick on Capitals.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »