Advertisement Supported by By Ben Rothenberg PARIS — “We play tennis crazy because we’re both a little crazy,” Fabio Fognini said before his third-round match Saturday at the French Open against Gaël Monfils. After Monfils, a 23rd-seeded Frenchman, defeated Fognini, a 14th-seeded Italian, 5-7, 6-2, 6-4, 0-6, 6-2, on Court Suzanne Lenglen, the only part of Fognini’s pronouncement that could be disputed was “a little.”  Even when seemingly in control of a match, Fognini will sometimes throw tantrums that turn the crowd against him and derail his concentration. Tied at 2-2 in the second set after winning the first, Fognini lost a point and twice smacked his racket hard against the court, drawing jeers from a crowd that seemed to be waiting to boo him. He then lost four straight games, allowing Monfils to tie the match.  Monfils, for his part, often seems to put showmanship ahead of pragmatism, with a scenic-route approach to point construction that takes him to parts of the court farther behind the baseline, wider of the sideline and higher in the air than other players dare to venture.  While Monfils likes to play to the crowd, Fognini is often dismissive of it. Annoyed on Saturday by a female spectator sitting behind the baseline who was slow to find her seat after a changeover, Fognini scowled and said, “Sit down, you ugly goat,” in Italian. He castigated himself in similar terms minutes later, when his normally reliable forehand deserted him. “You’ve made over 60 forehand errors — you’re nothing but a human goat!” he shouted after a shot curled wide. Addressing Fognini’s antics after the match, Monfils said: “Actually, you know, I wasn’t focusing on him. I know sometimes, Fabio talks or, I don’t know, shows stuff and does stuff. My focus was on myself. I was, I think, too tired to watch him.” Monfils was so tired, he appeared to be sleepwalking through the fourth set. After being broken in the first game, Monfils barely moved for balls, and he hit first serves as slow as 80 miles per hour, winning just six points in the set.  “It’s easy,” he said of his decision to throw away the set. “I want to serve first in the fifth. So I mean, the only option I had is to take six-love. Why should I make any effort?” Fognini said he expected that approach from Monfils.  “He always do like that,” Fognini said with a shrug. Monfils served first in the fifth set and saved two break points before holding the game. The velocity of his serve in the final set increased to a match-high 132 m.p.h.  Once again, Fognini began acting up. He was assessed a point penalty for unsportsmanlike conduct after throwing his racket in the third game of the final set, which put him behind, 3-0. He lost his serve at love five times in the match, each time after being disheartened by a lengthy Monfils hold.  The last time Fognini was broken at love was in the final game of the match, when he committed four consecutive forehand errors. After the last one veered far to the right, Monfils leapt high, and the crowd roared and continued clapping and cheering for minutes, except for a brief respite to boo Fognini one last time as he left.  “I played epic match there, and I feel great,” Fognini said, adding: “I’m happy about my tennis. I’m not happy, of course, because I lost, but this is the sport.” Rafael Nadal, the winner of a match that was played simultaneously but far more quickly, defended what he had seen from Monfils and Fognini as he watched the conclusion of their match.  “It’s a game that you can do whatever you want,” Nadal said. “You know, it’s not only one way to play tennis. There are different ways to play tennis.” He added: “All the respect for Monfils and for Fognini; they make a good show for the crowd. Long match. Crowd involved. Good for tennis.” It may have been good for tennis, but it was not necessarily good tennis.    Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS