Advertisement By MURRAY CHASS Instead of destroying their so-called traditional rivalries with teams like the Mets, a move by the Chicago Cubs to the National League's Western Division could actually enhance the rivalries by raising them to a higher plateau, lawyers for Commissioner Fay Vincent suggested yesterday. The lawyers raised that possibility in a 15-page memorandum they filed in United States District Court in Chicago. The memorandum came in reply to the Cubs' lawsuit against Vincent aimed at blocking his order to realign the National League next season by transferring the Cubs and the St. Louis Cardinals from the Eastern Division to the Western and moving the Cincinnati Reds and Atlanta Braves into the East. In their memorandum filed last week, the Cubs said that realignment would irreparably harm them because it would destroy their rivalries with Eastern Division teams. They referred to "a decades-old tradition of competing with the haughty Easterners, especially the despised denizens of New York." They Can Boo in the Playoffs In the commissioner's reply, his lawyers noted that Cubs fans "will still have the opportunity to jeer the 'despised denizens of New York.' For some, in fact, this rivalry may be enhanced by the prospect of defeating the Mets in the playoffs for the right to play in the World Series." Advertisement The Cubs' rivalry with the White Sox, the lawyers continued, "is fierce even though the teams play in different leagues." Advertisement "There is no love lost between their fans, who begin each season with dreams of defeating their crosstown rivals in an all-Chicago World Series," the commissioner's lawyers added. The Cubs' lawyers have until Monday to file their final papers in support of their effort to gain a preliminary injunction blocking the transfer of the four teams. Judge Suzanne Conlon is expected to set a hearing in the dispute for late next week. Did Vincent Exceed Authority?  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Cubs contend that the commissioner exceeded his authority, saying he incorrectly used his powers under the best-interests-of-baseball provision of the Major League Agreement. They say another provision of the agreement gives precedence to the National League constitution and thus blocks him from ordering realignment. But Vincent's lawyers argued in their reply brief that that provision, Article VII, is not the one under which the commissioner ruled. That article deals with disputes between clubs, the lawyers said, and Vincent did not view realignment as a dispute between clubs. Instead, the brief said, he found that the rule giving one team the right to veto realignment was not in the best interests of baseball because it countered the will of "the overwhelming majority of owners." Last March, the National League voted 10-2 to realign. But the Cubs cast one of the negative votes, and the league constitution gives veto power to teams that would be moved. The commissioner's brief also addressed the scheduling possibilities under realigned divisions, which is an outgrowth of the National League growing to 14 teams in 1993 with the addition of franchises in Florida and Colorado. If a balanced schedule for the 14 teams were adopted, the brief said, the Cubs actually would play more games in total against the Eastern Division than against the teams in their new division. A balanced schedule, which is what the American League uses, would give the Cubs 12 games against each Eastern Division team for a total of 84 and 13 games against each Western team for a total of 78. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 17, 1992, on Page B00007 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Reply to Cubs Envisions Better Booing.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »