Advertisement By ALEX YANNIS and  Craig Billington's goaltending and Claude Lemieux's shadowing helped the Devils bring Brett Hull's goal-scoring streak to an end and keep New Jersey's winning streak going tonight. The St. Louis Blues rarely come out winners when Hull fails to score a goal and they didn't tonight as the Devils made it four straight victories with a 4-3 triumph at Byrne Meadowlands Arena. Hull was stopped after getting goals in 10 straight games. Despite Lemieux's close guarding for most of the game, Hull still managed 9 of the Blues' 33 shots at Billington. He came close to scoring several times, but was denied at the last moment. The Devils withstood severe pressure toward the end as they had to kill a penalty to Doug Brown in the game's closing minutes. Fittingly, the game ended with the puck in Billington's midsection after a shot by Hull from the slot as the crowd of 11,293 agonized. 'He Makes It Look Easy' Advertisement "You have to be aware of where he is and of his quick release," Billington said about Hull, who scored three goals a night earlier against the Rangers and has 43 for the season. "He makes it look easy and before you know what happens the puck is in the net." Advertisement What Coach Tom McVie of the Devils admires about Hull is the way he manages to escape from being closely shadowed by opponents near the enemy goal. "He's like the tide," McVie said before the game. "You never know when he comes in and when he leaves." Hull came into the Byrne Meadowlands Arena like a tidal wave tonight with goals in 10 consecutive games and points in 19 straight. He left with two assists, both on goals by Brendan Shanahan, the former Devil. Lemieux not only clamped down on Hull, but he also scored his 26th goal of the season. Aleksei Kasatonov, Stephane Richer and Claude Vilgrain also had goals for the Devils against Guy Hebert, who faced 31 shots. "He floats around so much," Lemieux said about Hull. "He goes everywhere, and that's what makes it hard. I was happy he didn't have a goal, but he did have a few shots." Billington was there to stop Hull, who had four shots in the first, two in the second and three in the third in going without a goal for the first time since Dec. 19. Besides the two goals by Shanahan, Billington's only other blemish was a short-handed goal by Ron Sutter that closed the scoring with 4:30 left.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Otherwise, Billington was solid all game, starting when there was no score and the Blues had the manpower advantage, eight minutes into the game. The Devils' goalie made stops on shots by Adam Oates and Hull during the advantage. Advertisement The save on Hull was perhaps his biggest in the game as he denied the Blues' wing by holding his ground after Hull had speeded by Ken Daneyko on the left side. Taking the Early Lead Less than two minutes after that stop, the Devils opened the scoring on Kasatonov's seventh goal of the season. The play was started by Slava Fetisov's lead pass to Peter Stastny, who found Kasatonov parked to Hebert's left. The Devils' lead was doubled 36 seconds later on a marvelous piece of crafty work by Richer. After taking a pass from Kevin Todd on the right side behind the goal, Richer twisted and spun away from Lee Dave Lowry. Skating around the goal from right to left, Richer went in front of the net and stuffed the puck through Herbert's legs for his 17th goal of the season. Two manpower advantages for the Devils were fruitless after Richer's goal, preventing New Jersey from taking a larger lead into the first intermission. The lead was narrowed to a goal 1:16 into the second period on Shanahan's 18th goal during a manpower advantage for the Blues. The Devils were rather generous to Shanahan, who was booed loudly every time he made contact with the puck. They gave him too much time and space, and he teed up the puck after he received it from Hull and beat Billington to the upper right corner. It was his first goal in eight games. Lemieux restored the two-goal lead for the Devils with his 26th goal of the season, a ferocious slap shot from the top of the right circle to the lower left corner with 5:21 left in the second. But Shanahan again brought the Blues to within a goal, 8:45 into the third period, when he beat Billington to the gloveside with a wrist shot from the high slot. Advertisement Just when it seemed as if the Devils would crumble, they went on the attack and widenened the gap on Vilgrain's 11th goal of the season with 7:38 left. It turned out to be the winner as Ron Sutter got a short-handed goal three minutes later. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 10, 1992, on Page B00007 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; Devils Stop Hull's Streak to Beat Blues.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »