Advertisement By HARVEY ARATON and  One day is not too long a delay because what is 24 hours when you've been counting by years? Eva Twardokens has been waiting for her Olympics to begin since 1984. During the first week of the 1992 Winter Games, a reporter sent a message to Twardokens through the Olympics' computerized mail. Which events, the reporter wanted to know, would she be racing in when the women's Alpine events began? "Super G, slalom and giant slalom," Twardokens answered. "And I can't wait!" When snowfall and the resultant poor visibility forced the postponement of today's super giant slalom until Tuesday, Twardokens had a change in mood, kicking back and inhaling the crisp Savoy mountain air. "It just seemed like such a long time away last week, but now that I know it's here, I feel relaxed," she said. Advertisement Back home in Reno, nine hours west, the wait is getting to George and Halina Twardokens, who stayed home because of George Twardokens's job at the University of Nevada-Reno, where he is a full-time professor in kinesiology, and a desire to let Eva approach her dream with no distractions. But this is their dream, too, their only child following a family path to the Olympics that George laid out in 1952. Advertisement His game wasn't on skis, but with a saber, as a fencer. He didn't compete for the United States, but for Poland. In those Olympics, the Summer Games at Helsinki, Finland, 20-year-old George Twardokens finished sixth. But he was competing in a world divided between East and West, and he didn't like the side he was on. "I had been planning to leave Poland for years because life there was a dead end," he said today in a telephone interview. "It started when I met a coach from Princeton University who would tell me what life was like in the United States." In 1958, after winning a bronze medal in the world championships in Philadelphia, Twardokens eluded the Polish authorities, missed the plane home, gave a statement to the Federal Bureau of Investigation and was granted political asylum. This was not the happy ending. Halina, who had planned to defect with George, could not get out of Poland. After his defection, she was denied a passport six times.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "It was a six-month wait every time and they told me they would never let me leave," she said. "I wondered where my life was going." Early Initiation It was not until 1961, after three years of isolation and worry, that the couple was reunited. Halina Twardokens had been a downhill ski racer for Poland, and while her husband found work in avalanche control in Lake Tahoe, she became a ski instructor at the Montrose Resort. Their daughter was born during the winter of 1965. One year later, accompanying her mother to work, Eva was already on her first set of skis. By the time she was 16, she was on the United States ski team. She was 16th in the World Cup standing by 19, 10th in her specialty, giant slalom. That winter, she expected to be picked for the United States Olympic team that would compete in Sarajevo, Yugoslavia. Her father regaled her with his Helsinki war stories from 1952. "I was psyched," she said. But the United States team had several veterans and didn't bother filling out all its vacancies with younger skiers. "You're sure to go next time," Twardokens was told. When next time came, Twardokens's career was in freefall. By 1987, she had dropped to 37th in the world. By the 1988 Winter Olympics in Calgary, Alberta, she was suffering from a variety of injuries and the United States team's indifference. Years passed her by, and so did younger American women. "I was beginning to think that I'd never get to the Olympics," she said. But injuries seem to strike everyone in this sport. In 1991, when Diann Roffe and Kristi Terzian were hurt, Twardokens's career surged. With Coach Paul Major, adjustments were made. With renewed confidence, she jumped 50 places, to 14th in the World Cup standing. There was light, finally, at the end of her long, maddening tunnel. With those old world divisions gone, her Olympics would be different from her father's. George Twardokens said he is thrilled about the demise of the Eastern bloc, but happier, still, that his daughter is here. Advertisement One marathon, to an Olympic start house, ends the moment the women's Super G begins. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 18, 1992, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: ALBERTVILLE; A Delay Is Nothing New For U.S.'s Twardokens.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »