Advertisement Supported by By Jeff Z. Klein LOS ANGELES — Brad Richards has done exactly what the Rangers asked of him in July 2011 when they signed him to a nine-year, $60 million contract. He has provided playmaking and leadership, ushering the Rangers to their first Stanley Cup finals since 1994. It is unlikely they would have gotten this far without him. Yet there is a strong possibility that the Rangers will cut Richards loose this summer because of a punitive clause in the new collective bargaining agreement. General Manager Glen Sather is facing a strange and unpleasant dilemma. “I’ve thought about it a lot, but it’s not something that we’re thinking about right now,” Sather said Tuesday on the eve of Game 1, leaving the door open for buying Richards out. “That decision will come in the summer.” If Sather keeps the 34-year-old Richards, his $6.67 million average annual salary will count against the team’s salary cap until his contract expires in 2020. Even if he is traded or retires before then, the Rangers would still have to pay a heavy annual penalty. But Sather has the option of exercising the Rangers’ last amnesty buyout from mid-June to June 30. That would put the Rangers in the position of issuing immediate walking papers to Richards, even if the Rangers beat the Los Angeles Kings and Richards lifts the Cup. Sather would be reluctant to do that, but he indicated that he might anyway. “He’s been terrific — I mean, he’s acting as the captain right now,” Sather said of Richards. “He’s certainly a leader in the room. He’s been a leader on the ice. Great guy.” But, Sather added: “I really can’t make any comments about what’s going to happen during the summer. I mean, if we win the Stanley Cup, if we lose the Stanley Cup, I think the decision is something that comes later on in the summer. It’s not something that we need to get into talking with.” Richards’s contract was not a problem when, as a free agent, he signed with the Rangers over the Kings in 2011. The issue arose as part of the settlement between the N.H.L. and the players’ union that ended the 2012-13 owners’ lockout, after Richards had been a Ranger for a full season. That settlement aimed to punish teams that agreed to long, front-loaded contracts like Richards’s, in which players were paid large sums in the first years of a deal but small sums at the end to create a lower average against the cap. The mechanism that involved Richards and perhaps two or three dozen other N.H.L. players was known as the cap recapture clause. If a player is traded or retires before such a long-term contract expires, his salary still counts against the cap of the team that signed him. Richards’s contract runs until he’s 40. If he retires only one year early, the team will be penalized $5.67 million against the salary cap. The penalty compounds for each additional year he misses to retirement. Richards earned $12 million in each of the first two years he played for the Rangers and $9 million this season. In 2017-18 his paycheck will drop to $1 million, but the Rangers will continue to be assessed $6.67 million against the cap. “Amazing how rules change sometimes,” Sather said when asked what he thought of the cap recapture clause. “It’s not something I can comment on — that’s something you’d have to ask Mr. Bettman,” he added, referring to Commissioner Gary Bettman. “They decided to do something, and we had no influence on it at all.” That clause could force Sather to buy out Richards. If so, the Rangers would still have to pay Richards most of what they owe him through the term of the contract, but it would not count against the cap. Richards would be free to sign elsewhere and earn two paychecks. Richards is happy in New York. He lives downtown with his fiancée, and they are expecting a son this summer. Last season, he was unhappy. He had a terrible season and was benched in the playoffs by John Tortorella, who was the coach, in the playoffs. Richards acknowledged that the weight of his slump and failing to live up to the expectations of his contract wore heavily on him. “When Glen met with me at the end of the year and said he didn’t want to buy me out, it made me feel like, O.K., they’re not giving up,” Richards said Tuesday. He said that lifted his spirits. But now the question has come up again, and Richards said he was reluctant to confront it. “It’s not the right time to think about it,” Richards said. “It would hurt my game and it would hurt the team if I was worrying about it. So I haven’t really thought about it.” Sather’s faith in Richards has paid off this season. And yet, however reluctantly, he may have to let Richards go less than two weeks after the finals.     Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS