Advertisement By JAMES DUNAWAY and  Ask James Trapp whether his chances of making the United States Olympic team are better in the 100 meters or 200 meters, and he says, "I think my chances are best in both." That's spoken like a true sprinter. But if you press him, the junior from Clemson University says: "I think the 200 is my best event. I run a fair 100 and a real good 400 meters, and the 200 is in between." On Friday night in the Hoosier Dome here, Trapp underlined his feelings by winning the 200 meters in the National Collegiate Athletic Association indoor track and field championships with the third-fastest indoor time ever by an American, 20.66 seconds. Falls Short of Record Earlier, Trapp had finished second in his trial heat to Chris Nelloms of Ohio State. But in the final, Trapp ran conservatively for the first 100 meters, then accelerated past Jimmy French of Arkansas, the favorite, and Nelloms, to win going away by five feet. Advertisement "The semifinals really got me pumped up for the final," he said. "I went back to the hotel with my trainer, my nutritionist and my chiropractor, who got me ready for the final. I was going for the American record, but I fell a bit short. But I felt real strong. I felt I could have run a 400." Advertisement The American mark, held by Michael Johnson, is 20.59 seconds. Strength will be a key factor if Trapp is going to be successful in making the Olympic team against the likes of Johnson, the world champion at 200 meters, and Carl Lewis, the 200 gold medalist in 1984 and silver medalist in 1988. To qualify for the United States team, he must finish in the top three after running heats, quarterfinals and semifinals against the strongest group of sprinters in the world.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "We're training for a lot of rounds," Trapp said. "My coach has me running a lot of 600-meter training runs -- and the 150's, 200's, and 300's I've always run are being run a lot faster." 'A Pleasant Surprise' Mark Block, the Clemson sprint coach, said that the recovery intervals between each run are shorter this year, too, which builds strength. "James has only had two weeks of speed work to get ready for this meet, so his performance is a pleasant surprise," says Block. "Most of what he's been doing is strength work pointing toward the Olympic Trials." Trapp will get another test of speed tonight in the 55-meter dash. He and his teammate, Michael Green, a Jamaican, were the two fastest qualifiers for the final. One reason Trapp thinks he has a good chance to make the Olympic team is that he has been excused from spring football this year. He is a starting defensive back for Clemson. After the first night's events, Clemson has an outside chance to win the men's team title, but the co-favorites,Florida and Arkansas, appear to be too strong. The Razorbacks are going for their ninth team title in a row. The women's team race is a close affair among Florida, Louisiana State, and Villanova. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 15, 1992, on Page 8008007 of the National edition with the headline: TRACK AND FIELD; With an N.C.A.A. Title in Hand, Trapp Aims Higher.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »