Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMAY 31, 2014
 Far from the spotlight at Radio City Music Hall, where the next generation of N.F.L. players was being selected, more than three dozen early entrants to the draft were waiting at home, jobless. Forget grabbing one of those lucrative contracts or any of that guaranteed bonus money. Even worse, many of them did not have a diploma to help them find employment outside of football if no one called. Did they receive bad advice from agents or incorrect information from N.F.L. talent evaluators? Too much pressure from their families to seek the quick buck? Was there something in their off-field backgrounds that made them untouchable in the selection proceedings? Injuries or unimpressive workouts that made their stock plummet? Did they simply not belong in this deeply talented draft? Or perhaps in any draft? Advertisement Of a record 102 early entrants this year, 39 went undrafted. Thirty-three of those wound up with N.F.L. tryouts. But a college free agent’s road to success in the N.F.L. — or even making a roster — can be tortuous. It is hard enough for a majority of draftees to break through, let alone someone who was ignored through 256 picks. The agent Ben Dogra, whose client list includes dozens of first-rounders, from the league’s top running back, Adrian Peterson, to Robert Griffin III to J. J. Watt, wonders who is advising the players. “For that many to declare early and not get drafted, those are staggering numbers,” Dogra said. “We understand why some apply: They don’t feel they can handle the academics, or there are injury concerns, or maybe there’s a situation with the coaching staff. “Often, the input they get comes from agents. If you are not getting that input, like some of the players say, the only other place probably is from draft sites and the Internet and the media. That’s not going to be reliable information.” Reliable information from unbiased sources and the N.F.L. advisory committee could paint a clearer picture of how early the prospects could expect to be chosen — if at all — and whether they were served better by remaining in college for another season. Advertisement Over all, 31.4 percent of the 2,036 players on league rosters at some point in 2013 were not drafted. With only seven rounds and 32 compensatory picks, maybe that’s not so surprising. But young players are bucking the odds when they leave college early, particularly when their position is overloaded in the draft. That is what happened to running backs George Atkinson III, Kapri Bibbs and Brendan Bigelow. All three landed on their feet, with Oakland (Atkinson), Denver (Bibbs) and Tampa Bay (Bigelow). Of the 39 undrafted early entrants, 10 were running backs. Even the N.F.L.’s advisory board, which gives players evaluations of their status and potential draft round, cannot present a full analysis for the potential early entrants.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “Unfortunately, the one source that gets the least amount of attention from the player is the N.F.L.’s draft advisory board,” said the former N.F.L. general manager Phil Savage, who now runs the Senior Bowl. Savage said he would support moving the declaration date to Feb. 1 from Jan. 15, to allow more updated information about height, weight and speed to be considered, giving the player a more accurate idea of where he might end up. “If it’s not high enough, the player would still have the chance to go back to school for spring practices,” he said. Clearly, a large number of the early entrants disregarded any negative appraisals this year. “It was a tough decision, and I was hearing anything from four to seven,” Oklahoma State receiver Josh Stewart, who wound up signing with the Tennessee Titans, said, referring to the rounds where he thought he might be chosen. “And I thought that was perfectly fine for me because all I wanted was an opportunity, and to know that they had me four to seven when I got my reviews back, it was a for-sure thing.” Of course, it was not a certainty, and Stewart had to scramble to get a look. So did Kelcy Quarles, an end who played on the other side of the defensive line from the top overall pick, Jadeveon Clowney, at South Carolina. Quarles was bitter about being ignored, but he ultimately hooked on with the Giants. “I felt like I did the right thing,” he said of leaving college a semester short of graduating. “People said it might have been a bad decision, but it wasn’t a bad decision. I’ll see what happens. I’m not worried about not making the team. I plan on being here.” Advertisement Not all of the early entrants failed to graduate, so if their long-shot chances do not come to fruition, they do have a diploma. It could be a very valuable item for them long before September’s kickoffs. “I waited all day on graduation day for the call,” Syracuse running back Jerome Smith said. “It didn’t happen.” Then the Falcons called after the draft. If Smith had any insecurity about coming out early, they were erased. “Absolutely not,” he said. “I graduated college. I put myself in a situation to make it, so I’m all right.” A version of this article appears in print on June 1, 2014, on Page SP12 of the New York edition with the headline: For Early Entrants, Declaring for Draft Can Be a Gamble .  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »