Advertisement By HARVEY ARATON and  What can one do in five one-hundredths of a second besides lose a race? It would take Julie Parisien more time than that to construct a single thought about the margin that denied her an Olympic medal this afternoon in the women's slalom, longer to bat a teary eye. One day after finishing fifth in the giant slalom and announcing she was thrilled, Parisien was crushed by finishing fourth, behind the gold medalist, Petra Kronberger of Austria, Annelise Coberger of New Zealand and Blanca Fernandez Ochoa of Spain. "In the Olympics, the medal is everything," Kronberger, who also won the women's combined, said after becoming the first Alpine skier of these Olympics to strike double gold. Coberger, the first New Zealander and inhabitant of the Southern Hemisphere to win a Winter Olympics medal, and Fernandez Ochoa, a first-time medalist after competing in the last four Olympics, had good reason to agree. After winning a silver medal on Wednesday in the giant slalom, Diann Roffe of the United States said that what she dreaded most was the possibility of finishing that race fourth. Parisien, her 20-year-old teammate from Auburn, Me., came to experience exactly what Roffe meant. "Fourth isn't a loss, but fourth is the worst position to be in in the Olympics," Parisien said. "In the World Cup, fourth is great. But in the Olympics, what a heartache." Advertisement These Alpine races have been close enough to almost create the notion that results are determined by a computerized judicial system inside the clock. The leader after the morning run, Parisien looked up at the scoreboard in disbelief after her second trip down the mountain. She later said she was overwhelmed by the concept of these fractions meaning the difference between being overcome with joy and consumed with dejection. Advertisement "Five one-hundredths of a second," she kept repeating. The immediate weight of finishing fourth was so heavy that Parisien sank into a sitting position while still on her skis and remained that way for several moments. Here she had come so close despite two recent spills that had sent her home for major dental work and the healing of a broken left wrist. The cast was still on, but the only scars from all this were emotional. "She was not so O.K. for a while," said Tom Kelly, the publicist for the United States ski team. Another United States skier, Heidi Voelker, reported that Parisien was going to need some strenuous healing. "I told her I was proud of her," Voelker said, "and that I wouldn't want to be in her position." Even with the initial lead, thanks to a stirring morning run of 48.22 seconds, Parisien realized her standing in the race was not all that enviable. She had worried the night before about how she might handle being a pace-setter with three hours between runs to think about it and now, no matter how hard Parisien tried to fight it, she had a severe case of medals-on-the-mind. "Gold, silver, gold: that's all I could think about," she said. 'She Didn't Take the Risks' Fernandez Ochoa understood this thought process. Four years ago in Calgary, she was the halftime leader in the slalom. Likewise, her concentration wandered to a possible medal ceremony. She finished that race off the course, on her back.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "I think Julie just wanted to get down, and perhaps she really didn't go for it," Fernandez Ochoa said. "She didn't take the risks she might have, probably because of the pressure." Two years older than Parisien, but already an established World Cup champion, Kronberger chalked this up to youth and inexperience. She acknowledged that, based solely on ability, Parisien could be a rising slalom star. But there is more to winning a race. "It was actually the first time for her to take the lead in the first run," Kronberger said. "Bearing in mind that it was an Olympic event, the pressure was tremendous." Parisien's lead was a sliver of a hair, three one-hundreths of a second ahead of Fernandez Ochoa and six one-hundreths better than Kronberger. Like Roffe on Wednesday, Coberger had serious time to make up, in eighth place, eight-tenths of a second behind. Advertisement That she did, with the best second run, 44.08. Kronberger's time was 44.10. Fernandez Ochoa's time -- 45.10 -- was eminently beatable, but Parisien, the last seeded skier to race, could only manage 45.18, the eighth best of the second runs. "She learned a good lesson today," said the United States slalom coach, Fritz Vallant. "Yes, I would have gone for it more, instead of thinking, 'You can be there in the medals if you just finish,' " Parisien said. A fatal thought, taking longer than the time in which she lost a medal. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 21, 1992, on Page B00007 of the National edition with the headline: ALBERTVILLE; American Loses Out by the Width of a Ski.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »