Advertisement By JOE SEXTON The scouting report on Bret Saberhagen, ordered by the Mets late in the 1991 season, was full of objective data. Saberhagen's fastball was clocked at 97 miles an hour. His slider, rated on a scale of 2 to 8, was assigned a 7. His ratio of walks to innings pitched was as exemplary as ever. For the Mets, though, the clincher was the report's subjective conclusion: "Don't know how he ever gets beat." "When you see that," said Al Harazin, the general manager of the Mets, "you kind of get goosebumps." There were more than enough goosebumps to go around late Wednesday night after the Mets, in a staggering stage of their overhaul, acquired Saberhagen, owner of two American League Cy Young Awards, and infielder Bill Pecota from the Kansas City Royals for left fielder Kevin McReynolds, third baseman Gregg Jefferies and second baseman Keith Miller. In fact, Saberhagen's skin was electric even before he had officially been informed of the deal. The telephone rang late Wednesday night, and he exchanged quick, but charged glances with his wife. 'It's All Business' "I told her I figured it meant I had been traded," said Saberhagen. "She said she didn't believe it." Advertisement The two had no choice but to believe it moments later. Accepting and comprehending what had taken place, though, was going to take time. Advertisement "A million things went through my mind," said Saberhagen. There was, for sure, disillusionment for the 27-year-old who had spent his entire major league life with the Royals, along the way becoming the youngest pitcher to win the American League Cy Young Award, being named the Most Valuable Player in the 1985 World Series and claiming his second Cy Young Award in 1989 when he went 23-6. "Did I expect I'd always be a member of the Royals?" said Saberhagen, who had compiled a 110-78 record in eight seasons with the Royals. "I'd have to say yes. You start thinking in the back of your head that you are a fixture, that you are one of the reasons the team has done what it has done. But it's all business. Big business." There was anger, too, for the right-hander who had performed with purpose and through pain as the organization's franchise pitcher. "I'd like to think the Mets got much the better end of the deal," said Saberhagen, who didn't miss a chance to point out that the Royals had also bestowed David Cone upon the Mets in one of the more uneven trades of the last decade. "I'm sure the Mets were happy to deal with the Royals again." And so now, the National League has to deal with Saberhagen on a regular basis. According to his colleagues and opponents in the American League, it's not an enviable assignment.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "He's got the best, the very best stuff I've ever faced: four pitches that are way above average, that are rare," said Mel Hall, the Yankees' outfielder. "The guy is tough right out of the chute, and he's no picnic the rest of the way." "A premier pitcher, there's no other way to describe him," said Frank Funk, the pitching coach for the Royals from 1987-90. "There are pitchers who win their share of games, even more than their rightful share, and then there are pitchers who dominate, dominate hitters, moments, games. He's a dominant pitcher." Physical Vulnerability He's also one with a record of physical vulnerability. Saberhagen, bothered by a sore right shoulder, was limited to 156 innings and incapable of nothing more than a 7-12 record in 1986. In 1990, his season was interrupted when he underwent arthroscopic surgery to remove bone fragments in his right elbow. And then last season, Saberhagen missed a month of action because of rotator cuff tendinitis. He hasn't pitched 200 innings in either of his last two seasons. Advertisement The Mets said Wednesday night that they had received sufficient reassurances from the Royals that Saberhagen was fit and in no identifiable danger of breaking down seriously. Still, there have to be concerns, and the worries can't be small after a trade of this magnitude. "It's his shoulder that bothers him most, and that has given him problems most regularly," said Funk. "It can keep him from throwing on the side between starts. And the health of his shoulder is key to the effectiveness of his curveball, and how good his curveball is in any given start is key to how ruthless he can be. Without his curveball, he is a good pitcher, not a dominant one." Wicked Slider When right, Saberhagen forces hitters to make all the wrong moves. Saberhagen's control is exquisite: his ratio of 1.79 walks per nine innings entering last season placed him among the best ever for pitchers, and he walked only 45 in 196 1/3 innings in 1991. His slider is tight and wicked, his change-up a vastly more mature weapon in recent seasons. "I was with him at the 1990 All-Star Game, and I warmed him up," said Jeff Torborg, the manager of the Mets and a former catcher. "He had as good stuff as anyone on that All-Star staff. A lot of times, until you get close, you don't know how good a guy is." And so for Saberhagen, a childhood fan of the Cubs, the Dodgers and National League baseball, there was hope and a growing thrill to go along with the disillusionment and anger. There were, in short, goosebumps. "It's a whole new ball game," Saberhagen said. "It's been a long time since 1985. I'm looking forward to being on a championship ball club." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 13, 1991, on Page B00018 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL: A Deal That Looks Unbeatable; Mets Welcome Saberhagen to the Lineup With Goosebumps All Around.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »