Advertisement By RICHARD SANDOMIR The Internal Revenue Service yesterday outlined its guidelines for taxing the income that tax-exempt groups like college-bowl and golf-tournament organizers receive from corporate sponsors. The guidelines were issued as a result of an I.R.S. ruling last year that organizations running the Cotton Bowl and the John Hancock Bowl had to pay taxes on their sponsorship cash because the money constituted advertising, an activity deemed unrelated to the business of the games. The agency contends that the mere acknowledgment of a corporate donor's contribution will not trigger taxation. But virtually every other activity engaged in by organizations and sponsors will be questioned by the I.R.S. For example, if the organization puts the sponsor's name or logo in the title of an event, on banners placed throughout a stadium or on player uniforms, the money will be subject to taxation. Advertisement Also, if the sponsor says its donation is contingent upon media coverage, requires media outlets to provide exposure for the company and its products, or links its payment to how much exposure it gets, the money may be taxed.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Marc Owens, director of the I.R.S.'s exempt-organizations technical division, said: "No one provision is the touchstone for taxation. But the more specific an agreement is in writing that makes it look like the organization is providing the sponsor with marketing services, the more it looks like a business transaction." Charitable Activity? The football bowl games have contended that the sponsorship money goes primarily to benefit the schools playing in the games and their conferences, which they say is a charitable, tax-exempt activity. Advertisement Golf tournaments say the money is contributed to local charities. Ed Knight, a lawyer for the Cotton Bowl Athletic Association, said: "The I.R.S. focuses on whether the donor's name is promoted, but that's different than promoting the company's products. If you're not promoting products, that's not advertising." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 18, 1992, on Page 1001035 of the National edition with the headline: I.R.S. Explains New Sponsorship Rules.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »