Advertisement By BRAD TELIASMAY 31, 2014
 When a caller to a 1986 sports talk radio show that I co-hosted asked why no horse had won the Triple Crown in a while, the jockey Eddie Arcaro, a guest on the show, said, “You’ll never see another.” On Saturday, the Kentucky Derby and Preakness champion California Chrome will prove Arcaro clairvoyant or become the 12th horse to enter the sport’s pantheon. And it will be quite a way to celebrate attending my 50th consecutive Belmont Stakes. It has been 36 years since Affirmed won the last Triple Crown, and many astute horsemen believe Arcaro was right, but perhaps for different reasons. With six Belmont Stakes winners, Arcaro, a two-time Triple Crown rider during a 30-year career, thought there were too many foals in the 1980s, with too many good ones competing. Registered foals had increased threefold since he left the saddle in 1962. Advertisement Critics now argue there has been too much emphasis on breeding for speed, yielding higher auction prices, and not enough emphasis on stamina. Still others in the industry see performance-enhancing drugs, used with more frequency recently, as tainting the endurance gene that must be passed on. Advertisement While all of this has contributed to the drought, it is clear that the Belmont, the Triple Crown’s oldest and longest race, is the backbreaker. Because of its unusual mile-and-a-half distance, the Belmont requires a horse with a particular running style. The four-time Belmont winning trainer D. Wayne Lukas often tells reporters, “Look for one with a high cruising speed.” All four of his champions had it. During his record five consecutive Belmont victories, from 1982 to 1986, the trainer Woody Stephens kept reminding me that speed wins the Belmont. “A horse with speed doesn’t have be on the lead,” he said. “You can use speed anywhere in a race. I used to take horses coming off sprints, run them long and then take back with them.” Yet a look at the victors over the last four decades shows that with rare exceptions, they raced on or several lengths from the lead when the field hit the top of the stretch with a quarter of a mile to run. And each of the 11 Triple Crown winners captured the Belmont in that way, too. Arcaro, a Hall of Famer who died in 1997, never hesitated to say that Citation, the eighth Triple Crown champion, was the best horse he ever rode. Recalling that Big Cy had stumbled at the start of the 1948 Belmont, he was quick to acknowledge on the talk show, “I could have fallen asleep at the start, too, and it wouldn’t have made a difference.” Ron Turcotte, aboard Secretariat’s 31-length tour de force in 1973, could have said the same of what today is considered the greatest performance by a thoroughbred. Years later, Turcotte went even further, saying, “It was the greatest performance in the history of sports.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. That Belmont, for me, was a truly unforgettable 23rd birthday present. My winning $2 ticket is stapled to the racing program, which bears an inscription from my father that reads, “None superior, few his equal.” My father should know; he witnessed every Belmont when a Triple Crown was achieved but the first, by Sir Barton in 1919. My grandfather took my father to his first Belmont in 1930, when Gallant Fox became the second Triple Crown champion. But for me, it all started in 1965 with a subway ride with my father from our apartment in the Bronx to Aqueduct Racetrack, which hosted the Belmont Stakes from 1963 to ’67 during Belmont Park’s reconstruction. Advertisement Hail to All won that day, and I was hooked on the racetrack experience. I even passed up my college graduation in 1971 to see Canonero II try for the Triple Crown, but the long shot Pass Catcher prevailed. In 1977, Seattle Slew led gate to wire in a four-length romp in his undefeated run. As the secretary of the New York State Racing and Wagering Board, I watched from the stewards’ booth, probably the best seat in the house. After the jockey Jean Cruguet stood up on Slew just before the finish line with his whip raised in triumph, I looked over at the three stewards in charge of all human and equine racetrack behavior and said, “I don’t think Cruguet would have, but he could have fallen off.” All agreed and said they would have a little chat with him later. The next year, Affirmed battled to the wire with his archrival Alydar. Afterward, I turned to a racing official in the booth and said: “Back-to-back Crowns. This is becoming a little too easy.” Little did we know then how hard it would be. Ultimately, winning still rests on a horse’s ability to cover Belmont’s sweeping turns and the resolve to avoid being tested by rivals looking to take him out of the race. That was something that the jockey Stewart Elliott took for granted in 2004 by not having other mounts during Belmont week, and then allowing two early rival challenges that resulted in Smarty Jones’s second-place finish in 2004. California Chrome no doubt has the Belmont running style and has shown an ability to make the tactical moves when Victor Espinoza asks. In this, often considered the consummate jockey’s race, we will see whether Espinoza learned from his eighth-place finish 12 years ago with the Triple Crown hopeful War Emblem, who stumbled out of the starting gate. His split-second decisions at the Preakness with Chrome indicate that he probably has. On Saturday, it might come down to whether California Chrome has something left in the tank after two taxing races, and whether his opponents, some rested after skipping the Preakness, have a lot more. But one thing is for sure: I will be there for my 50th consecutive Belmont. Brad Telias has covered the Triple Crown for CBS Radio for the past 26 years and has written about racing for The Sporting News and other publications.  A version of this article appears in print on June 1, 2014, on Page SP8 of the New York edition with the headline: A Long-Awaited Anniversary Gift.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »