Advertisement By JACK CURRY The Yankees dismissed Buck Showalter as third-base coach last October, then rehired him 22 days later and made him the youngest manager in the major leagues. Showalter was given a one-year contract but also became the lowest-paid manager in the majors with a salary of less than $200,000. Now that the Yankees have played above expectations with a 41-42 record, and with Showalter having been very impressive on and off the field, the Yankees' general partner, Joseph Molloy, said for the first time yesterday that the organization was ready to begin courting Showalter intensively in an attempt to sign him to a multiyear contract. "It will happen," said Molloy. "Within the next 30 days? No. Maybe in a short time period after that. Buck knows the situation, and I told him I will address it in the near future." Curiously, Showalter, whose contract expires on Dec. 31, was hesitant to comment on prospective negotiations. "The people who make those decisions will do what they think is right at the proper time," he said last night. "I can't concern myself with it." New Teams Show Interest Advertisement With George Steinbrenner likely to be reinstated to run the Yankees next spring, Showalter might want to wait until the end of this season, possibly to explore other options with more security. Both 1993 National League expansion teams, the Colorado Rockies and the Florida Marlins, have privately expressed an interest in Showalter, who is 36 years old and has been in the Yankee organization for 16 years. Advertisement Although Showalter has been a minor league player, coach and manager and major league coach and manager in the Yankee organization since 1977, he apparently has some doubts about his job security once Steinbrenner returns. The Yankees might have to give Showalter specific assurances and at least a guaranteed three-year contract. "A lot will depend on what Buck is looking for," Molloy said. "A lot will depend on what we can afford to give him." Meeting With Johnson  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. While Molloy spoke of trying to keep Showalter, more speculation about General Manager Gene Michael's tenuous position arose in light of a meeting recently between the former Mets manager Davey Johnson and Molloy in Tampa, Fla. But Molloy said the meeting lasted only 20 minutes and insisted that Johnson was not interviewed for the general manager position. Molloy said that they spoke about player scouting and the expansion draft and that Michael's job was not in jeopardy. "While I've been the general partner, I've been very pleased with Gene Michael's performance," Molloy said. "His contract runs through 1993, and we plan to honor it." When Molloy was asked if the Yankees had any plans to hire Johnson in another capacity, he said: "If there is an opening and he applies, he will be considered. I'm not going to make an opening for him." An Eye Toward Scouting Michael said last night that he had talked to Molloy about his Yankee future and the options included continuing as the general manager or doing more scouting. From the tone of his comments, it seems as if Michael is destined to switch to scouting after his tenure ends. Michael dislikes the controversy that swirls around his job and said rumors about his dismissal crop up "once a month." "I enjoy the scouting aspect of this job more than the administrative," Michael said. "I'm not going to be out. I plan on staying in this job." But, he conceded, "I don't enjoy every single aspect of this job." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 9, 1992, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: Showalter Stays Coy as Yanks Come Courting.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »