Advertisement By MICHAEL JANOFSKY With a little luck on one runner's part and continued good health by another, the men's 400-meter event at the Barcelona Games could have a familiar look to it. Lawyers for Butch Reynolds, the world-record holder who has failed in his attempts to have a two-year suspension for drug use overturned, intend to ask the International Amateur Athletic Federation this weekend to commute his sentence. Reynolds, the silver medalist in the 1988 Seoul Games, is eligible to return to competition on Aug. 12. In Barcelona, Spain, the 400 will open with the first round on Aug. 1 and will conclude four days later. But to become eligible for the Olympic team, he needs to run a 400 in 45.49 seconds to qualify for the trials in New Orleans next month, then finish among the top three in the final. Advertisement In his efforts to have the I.A.A.F. overturn his suspension, Reynolds has won the right to compete several times domestically. But in three races, his times have been far off the qualifying standard. Advertisement "We are asking for immediate reinstatement," said Peter Alkalay, a laywer for The Athletics Congress, which is representing Reynolds before the I.A.A.F. "If it does happen right away, it doesn't help him." The request for reinstatement is based on administrative errors in the testing procedures Reynolds's lawyers cited in trying to have the suspension set aside. Earlier this month, an I.A.A.F. arbitration panel acknowledged imperfections in the test but ruled against the runner. Meanwhile, the runner who defeated Reynolds in Seoul, Steve Lewis, has been running well all spring, his first extended period of health since his Olympic victory. A hamstring problem affected Lewis's 1989 season; the following year, he contracted a virus that 13 doctors could not cure. The illness lasted more than a year, causing him chills, fatigue, loss of appetite and once, a high fever. "I think I got it from drinking the water in Lille," Lewis said, alluding to a meet north of Paris. "At times I thought I wanted to quit." Once the virus cleared, he returned to competition, and by this year began posting encouraging times again, including a victory last month in 44.45 seconds, his fastest time since Seoul. At the New York Games on Sunday, he won in 44.85. "I'm ahead of the pace I was on for 1988," he said. "I'm in the best shape for this time of year I have ever been in." Of Tom and Matt Advertisement Over the course of three Olympic seasons, Tom Jager and Matt Biondi have gone from casual acquaintances, to nonspeaking rivals, to fast friends. The two swimmers will race against each other again at Barcelona in the 50-meter freestyle sprint, and Jager believes it will be the highlight of the Games.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "It makes me laugh when I see the Dan and Dave commerical where they're talking about rivalries," Jager said, about the Reebok ad featuring decathletes Dan O'Brien and Dave Johnson. "Ours is the rivalry of the Olympics," Jager said. "It's nothing against that ad. But when it registers in my mind, it's 'Tom and Matt,' even though it says, 'Dan and Dave.' " At the Alamo Challenge meet over the weekend in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., Jager, the current world-record holder, leaped to a perfect start and won the event in 23.49 seconds. Biondi froze on the blocks and finished third, behind Todd Pace, in 23.63. Jager has an 11-5 edge in 50-meter races in Olympic-sized (50 meters) pools, but he said that doesn't matter. But the 26-year-old Biondi is the defending gold medalist in the event. Jager, 27, won the silver at Seoul. "As far as I'm concerned, Matt is 1-0, he's got the lead," Jager said. Biondi was disappointed in his performance in Fort Lauderdale, but not crushed. "It's a shame to come all the way down here and lose before you get wet," he said. "But there's only one race that counts. When you win the gold medal, everybody is on your side." The two rivals plan to go into the bed-and-breakfast business together after retiring. Before that, they could also keep on racing, lucratively, against each other at meets or match-race exhibitions. "In track, top athletes don't go against each other because their sponsor doesn't want them to lose," Jager said. "Swimmers are different. We don't avoid each other." Competitive Situation Advertisement John Smith, a five-time world champion wrestler at 136 pounds and the defending Olympic champion, learned early the requisite skills to compete at the highest level. "I grew up with six sisters, and five of them were older than me," he said recently. "I started wrestling when I was 5 years old, and I didn't always have a workout partner. A lot of matches took place on the living room floor with my sisters. I believe that it wasn't until sixth grade that I started winning some of those. It was good experience because of the competitive environment, always trying to beat my way out of the house. I couldn't even think about going to the mat until I beat my sisters." Fast Closer Nick Gillingham of Britain had an outstanding meet at the British Olympic trials last week in Sheffield, winning the 100-meter breast-stroke and then the 200 with the second-fastest time ever, 2 minutes 11.98 seconds. Mike Barrowman has the record, 2:10.60. Gillingham was the silver medalist in Seoul in the 200 to Joszef Szabo of Hungary. Barrowman was fourth. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 26, 1992, on Page B00014 of the National edition with the headline: OLYMPICS; Reynolds Speeds Up His Struggle to Return.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »