Advertisement By JOE SEXTON and  There were emphatic denials from the Chicago White Sox concerning Jeff Torborg's status. There was silence from the Mets, and the promise of more of the same in the future. There was speculation -- idle perhaps, but interesting all the same -- in the clubhouse. Welcome to the circus of hiring a manager for the Mets. The spectacle could well be long, and it sure won't be neat; choked with rumors, applications, interviews, scarce official information and non-stop official obfuscations. Today, Torborg, the manager of the White Sox who has become the first and most prominent entry in the rumor mill, escalated the intrigue by telling reporters in Chicago that if the Mets called, he'd "probably listen." "I thought it might get bad in the weeks    after    the season," said Mike Cubbage, the interim manager of the Mets as well as a candidate and more than casual handicapper of the rest of the field. Advertisement Cubbage reads the newspapers, and he'd seen the mentions of Torborg. 'Roots in New Jersey' "It didn't surprise me," Cubbage said of seeing Torborg's name mentioned. "He has all the qualifications the Mets have publicly said they are looking for. He's got roots in New Jersey. He's done a heck of a job with the White Sox." Advertisement Ron Schueler, the White Sox general manager said rumors and reports that owner Jerry Reinsdorf had already told Torborg he was free to talk to the Mets were false. "Permission was never asked by the Mets, and Jerry wouldn't be the one to give it anyway -- I would," said Schueler.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Schueler also took pains to deny a recent television report that Torborg, who is in his third season with the White Sox and was offered a contract extension earlier in the season, had not signed the deal and was thus not as secure as believed. Harazin Offers Apology "Jeff has signed it and is under contract for the future," said Schueler. Schueler, though, did not rule out the chance that, if the Mets did wish to speak with Torborg, he might permit them to do so. "If and when they ask, then it's an issue for me," said Schueler. The entire abbreviated affair had becme enough of an issue of concern for Al Harazin that the executive for the Mets who will hire the next manager telephoned Schueler today to apologize for a situation he said had been "blown out of proportion." Torborg, by the accounts of several Mets who played for and against him and by general consensus among baseball people, is an intelligent and capable manager, one who would be an immensely attractive option for the Mets. Of course, it was unclear whether either Torborg or the Mets might endorse the entire proposition. But, then, that's how it can work in a search for a manager. INSIDE PITCH KEVIN McREYNOLDS hit a three-run homer as the Mets scored four runs in the 11th inning to earn a 9-6 victory over the Pirates and gain a measure of respectablitiy against Pittsburgh. They finished 6-12 in the season series. . . . The Mets announced that the game would be MACKEY SASSER's last of the season. Sasser, who singled to score a run in his lone time at bat will undergo arthroscopic surgery to fix torn cartilage in his left knee. . . . MIKE CUBBAGE, who said he had already been offered a spot with the organization in the event he wasn't retained as manager, said he was unsure if he'd accept. "If I was going to manage in the minors again, I'd want to position myself with an organization where there was a shot at managing in the majors." . . . HOWARD JOHNSON, who has 115 rruns batted in on the season, could become the first switch-hitter in National League history to win the title for runs batted in. He has one more than WILL CLARK of the Giants. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 3, 1991, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Torborg? A Possibility. A Circus? Definitely.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »