Advertisement By MURRAY CHASS Tomorrow's draft of high school and college players could be the most confusing since baseball adopted the draft system in 1965. Clubs will choose players under two different rules, one old, one new, and they will not necessarily draft the best players available when their turn arrives. Clubs that choose players who have been selected in previous drafts will retain rights to those players until next year's draft. Clubs that select players who never have been drafted will retain rights to them until one year after they leave college, creating a rights period of from two to five years for high school seniors. The players association is challenging the latter rule, new this year, and an arbitration hearing is scheduled for next week. Clubs might not pick the best players available because (1) the players might not agree to sign free-agent waivers linked to the new rule, (2) they may want too much money or (3) they are advised (represented) by Scott Boras, the agent who last year extracted $1.55 million from the Yankees for Brien Taylor. Houston, Cleveland, Montreal and Baltimore are the first four teams in the drafting order, and they also have the four lowest payrolls in the major leagues this year. The Expos' baseball people, for example, would like to pick Jeffrey Hammonds, an outfielder from Stanford University and Scotch Plains, N.J., who may be the most talented player available, but he may also command the most money and the club's owners apparently have not yet approved the expenditure. Advertisement Charles Johnson, a University of Miami catcher, is considered one of the best players on the draft list, but Boras is his adviser, and the lower-paying clubs are expected to avoid him. Rumor also had Boras advising Michael Tucker, a strong-hitting shortstop from Longwood (Va.) College, but Tucker's father wrote a letter to the Players Association saying that the agent will not be involved with his son.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Astros, with the No. 1 selection, had been leaning toward Phil Nevin, a third baseman from California State-Fullerton, but late last week, they were considering changing to Derek Jeter, a high school shortstop from Kalamazoo, Mich. Many of the top collegiate players who will be drafted will not be available to play this season because they are on the United States Olympic team. One who isn't is Paul Shuey, a pitcher from the University of North Carolina, who was not drafted out of high school. The Indians are expected to select him. Advertisement The National League's two expansion teams, the Colorado Rockies and the Florida Marlins, will draft 27th and 28th. They have been relegated to the bottom of the order, but this is the first time expansion teams will participate in a draft in the year before they join the majors. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 31, 1992, on Page 8008005 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Amateur Draft Presents A Different Challenge.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »