Advertisement By ROBERT MCG. THOMAS JR. Judging by the difficulty renegades have faced making it into the Pro Football Hall of Fame, you might think it was the National Football League owners who make the selections. Actually, the final choices are made by news 31 media representatives, and if their seeming reluctance to honor otherwise worthy rebels suggests that the football writers and broadcasters have been mere lackeys for the N.F.L. establishment, well, the lackeys declared their independence yesterday. They admitted Al Davis, John Mackey and John Riggins at a single stroke along with Len Barney, who in 11 seasons as a Detroit cornerback, punter and kick-return specialist never offended anybody except quarterbacks, receivers and special teams. Davis, Mackey and Riggins, of course, have at one time or another offended just about everybody else, primarily the N.F.L. owners and former commissioner Pete Rozelle, not to mention Associate Justice Sandra Day O'Connor of the United States Supreme Court. Advertisement Many players and others believe that Mackey, a highly regarded tight end for the Baltimore Colts in the 1960's, would have been admitted to the hall years ago if he had not been a highly effective union activist who filed the 1972 antitrust suit that overturned the Rozelle Rule, the N.F.L. equivalent of baseball's notorious reserve clause, opening the way for free agency. Advertisement Mackey, who had been passed over 14 times for induction into the hall, was in his 15th and final year of eligibility. Davis, the Raider owner and former coach who built one of the league's most successful franchises, has been a perennial thorn in the side of the N.F.L. since his days as president of the rival American Football League at the time the N.F.L. was forced to accept a merger. Like Mackey, he incurred the ire of his fellow N.F.L. owners when he used the antitrust laws to win the right to move the francishe from Oakland to Los Angeles over their objections in 1980. He had been a finalist six times but until yesterday had not received the required 80 percent of the total vote. What made Davis's selection seem especially significant was that he was chosen over a member of the N.F.L. inner circle, Wellington Mara, the Giants' owner, who was a finalist for the first time. Davis said last night that he was grateful for the honor even though it was a long time coming. "I said many times that it should have happened a long ago," he said.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Riggins, the workhorse Redskin running back who was the hero of the 1983 Super Bowl, was a rebel of a distinctly different order and may have benefited from the decision to admit Davis and Mackey since he was accepted in his first year of eligibility. Of the three players admitted, he also had by far the most impressive career, gaining 11,352 yards and 116 toucdhowns, third highest in N.F.L. history, over 14 seasons and setting two Super Bowl records in 1983 when he carried the ball 38 times for 166 yards. Although he struck a blow for labor independence by sitting out the 1980 season in a salary dispute, his challenges to authority were generally more indirect. During his five seasons with the Jets and nine in Washington, Riggins gained a reputation for thumbing his nose, or rather his hair, at N.F.L. conventions, appearing in a Mohawk one year and an Afro another. Advertisement His most memorable departure from the norm occurred at a black-tie dinner in 1985 when he called across the table to Justice O'Connor: "C'mon, Sandy, baby. Loosen up. You're too tight." He then proceed to stretch out, sticking his cowboy boots under a guest's chair and snoring through a series of speeches, including one by Vice President George Bush. Whether nominees' relations with the N.F.L. hierarchy have been a factor in the voters' decisions has been a subject of debate. Mike Ditka, for example, himself a former tight end who was admitted to the Hall in 1988, said he was amazed that he got in before Mackey. Among the 11 finalists passed over yesterday were eight players, including Lynn Swann, the former Steelers receiver, and two coaches, Bud Grant and Bill Walsh. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 26, 1992, on Page 8008007 of the National edition with the headline: SUPER BOWL: XXVI; A Radical Look for Hall of Fame.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »