Advertisement By JOSEPH DURSO and  If the racing world was looking for a national star to challenge the international star Arazi in the Kentucky Derby, it may have found one: Dance Floor, who came out of the West and outran a bunch of Eastern horses in the Fountain of Youth Stakes on Saturday. And Dance Floor pranced onto the road to Kentucky surrounded by stars: notably his trainer, D. Wayne Lukas, who has won more races and money than any other trainer in the world in the last decade, and his owner, the rap-music giant Hammer. Hammer wasn't here at Gulfstream Park when his 3-year-old colt swept home by 4 1/2 lengths over Pistols and Roses, the leading Eastern candidate on the road to the Triple Crown. But his father and three of his brothers were here, laying down the challenge to Arazi for Churchill Downs on May 2 and setting the stage for the same sort of commotion and exuberance they generated last summer in New York with their fast filly, Lite Light. Lukas reported today that Dance Floor had come out of the Fountain of Youth in sound shape, and he said that the colt would not return to the main Lukas herd in California but would stay at Gulfstream Park to prepare for the next milestone, the Florida Derby on March 14. Advertisement Pistols and Roses, still considered the chief challenger from the East, also came out of the race untroubled, except for lingering regrets over the fact that he had started from an outside post position and never quite made up the ground. Advertisement "He came back fine," said George Gianos, who trains the colt for the Willis Family Stable. "There are no problems. It wasn't the best trip he's ever had. But those things happen." No Excuses Gianos, a man of few words and no alibis, said that Pistols and Roses would take another shot at Dance Floor in the Florida Derby, and he added: "I don't ever make excuses. He just wasn't best yesterday."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The race Saturday stirred more commotion than usual because it presumably established some sort of pecking order for the challenge to Arazi, who made a smashing debut in America last Nov. 2 when he circled the field and won the Breeders' Cup Juvenile by five lengths. It also stirred commotion because it brought Hammer's father and brothers back into Eastern racing, where they wagered thousands last summer with Lite Light. Before her New York debut last June, they bet $114,000 in cash and then watched her lose a tight photo finish to Meadow Star, the champion juvenile filly of 1990. But a month later, Lite Light got her revenge by whipping Meadow Star by seven lengths. "I only bet $100 today," Hammer's father, Lewis Burrell, said after Dance Floor's victory. "The people of Florida made him the favorite, not us." FINISH LINE The richest race of the Florida season for fillies and mares was won Sunday by the accomplished senior citizen Fit for a Queen, who outran Firm Stance by 5 1/2 lengths in the $200,000 Rampart Handicap at Gulfstream. Fit for a Queen, a 6-year-old mare owned by Hermitage Farm and trained by Shug McGaughey, moved from third to first as the field of 11 entered the homestretch. Mitch Sirota's Firm Stance was second; Scotty Schulhofer's Nannerl third. The winner covered the mile and a sixteenth in 1:43 3/5 and paid $5.40 for $2 to win. Her share of the purse brought her career earnings close to $1 million. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 24, 1992, on Page C00012 of the National edition with the headline: HORSE RACING; Dance Floor Has Look Of a Derby Contender.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »