Advertisement By THOMAS GEORGE As the National Football League owners gather in Phoenix today for their annual meeting, it appears that instant replay will once again be approved but that hopes of solving the league's labor mess remain slim. At each of the last six owners meetings, instant replay as a means of refining officials' calls has been adopted for one year; last year, it was renewed by the slimmest margin. Twenty-one of the 28 owners' votes are required for replay approval. Last year, replay won in a 21-7 vote and a similar close call is expected at this week's meeting, which will last through Thursday. During the regular season last fall, replay once again appeared on its way out, but a correct replay reversal of the Art Monk touchdown catch in Super Bowl XXVI will likely mean that replay will get another one-year reprieve. N.F.L. players and management continue spiraling toward the courts to solve their labor disputes, and the owners see little hope of the situation being magically resolved at this meeting. Advertisement "These are two issues that will receive attention," Norman Braman, the Philadelphia Eagles' owner, said last week. "On the labor front, there continues to be little movement, but the biggest surprise and success of these meetings would be us being able to walk away by moving a little closer to some type of resolution out of the courts." Advertisement Braman, a member of the league's expansion committee, said that he does not believe that the labor issue will hamper the league's expansion hopes. Eleven cities have applied for the two additional teams that are scheduled to be selected this fall and to be on the playing field for the 1994 season. The owners hope to reduce the number of cities vying for the spots from 11 to possibly five. The owners will take a close look at several competition rules, including ways to boost scoring. Last season, N.F.L. games averaged 38 points scored per game, the fewest since teams averaged 36.7 in 1978.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Dan Reeves, the Denver Broncos' coach, is a chief proponent of finding ways to help teams score once they reach inside the opponent's 20-yard line, especially in noisy, domed stadiums on the road where hearing the quarterback's signal has become increasingly difficult and where linemen frequently jump offsides, ruining scoring drives. Reeves has suggested some type of voice amplification mechanisim to be used by quarterbacks, or possibly radio transmission into linemen's helmets so they might clearly hear the quarterback's cadence. These are some other issues that will likely be discussed this week: *Length and pace of game -- N.F.L. games averaged 3 hours 11 minutes in 1989, 2:58 in 1990 and 3:01 last season. The owners are considered reducing the 45-second allotment between plays to 40 seconds to increase the pace of games. *New England Patriots ownership -- The league has hinted it might take over ownership of the Patriots to insure the team stays in the Foxboro, Mass., area. The Patriots' owners, Victor Kiam and Fran Murray, continue trying to resolve their complicated squabble over ownership and reports are expected from both and then possibly action by the owners will follow. *World League of American Football -- A comprehensive report is expected as the league gears for its second season with stronger backing from the N.F.L. owners. Each N.F.L. team provided at least one player for the league and much of the radio helmet technology that the N.F.L. is considering will continue to be used in the World League, giving the N.F.L. a closer look at how the operation might work. *Officiating -- Jerry Seeman, the N.F.L. supervisor of officials, will make his annual report and offer suggestions on how officiating might be improved. Several owners have said they prefer a system that would allow the league to adopt full-time, year-round officials but the league likely will not move in that direction for the 1992 season. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 15, 1992, on Page 8008005 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL; Replay and Labor Lead Issues at N.F.L. Talks.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »