Advertisement By RYAN GOLDBERGJUNE 16, 2014
 For years now at Royal Ascot, the world’s two largest racing outfits, Godolphin and Coolmore, have shown off their embarrassment of equine riches at a meet full of prestige and passionate competition. But as this summer’s Royal Ascot opens Tuesday, the colors of Qatar’s ruling al-Thani family will highlight an encroaching counterbalance to this duopoly. With nearly unlimited resources and a quickly expanding operation, the Al Shaqab Stable of Sheikh Joaan al-Thani, the brother of the emir of Qatar, and his younger cousin, Sheikh Fahad al-Thani, who races as Qatar Racing or Pearl Bloodstock, have turned European racing on its head in less than three years, paying top dollar for yearlings as well as the best horses in training. “The Qataris are a new force,” said Andreas Jacobs, a prominent breeder with farms in England, South Africa, and his native Germany. “They are changing the world of thoroughbred racing.” At Ascot, Sheikh Joaan’s Trêve, the reigning horse of the year, will run in the Prince of Wales’s Stakes on Wednesday, and either Olympic Glory or Toronado probably will feature on the opening day in the Queen Anne Stakes. Sheikh Fahad had expected to be represented by the Australian sprinter Zoustar, in which he purchased an interest in January, but the early favorite for the Diamond Jubilee Stakes suffered a career-ending injury last month. Advertisement Their entrance to thoroughbred racing — and to a lesser degree, Sheikh Joaan’s uncle, Sheikh Mohammed al-Thani, who goes by Al Shahania Stable — reflects Qatar’s riches. Much of Qatar’s wealth from the oil and gas industry is held by the al-Thani family. They have spent heavily on sporting interests. Besides investments in real estate, construction, oil and gas, QIPCO Holding, the investment group of Sheikh Fahad and his five brothers, also started Qatar Bloodstock and sponsor the British Champion Series and Guineas festivals. Sheikh Joaan has sponsored France’s Prix de l’Arc de Triomphe since 2008 and will continue until at least 2022. The previous emir, Sheikh Hamad al- Thani, who ruled from 1995 until 2013, established the Qatar Investment Authority in 2005, and it has invested more than $100 billion in a dizzying array of entities: the French soccer team Paris Saint-Germain; Harrod’s department store; London’s Heathrow Airport; the German car maker Volkswagen, and the television network Al Jazeera. Advertisement Although the Qataris are newcomers to thoroughbred racing, they are not new to racing generally. Both Sheikh Joaan and Sheikh Fahad grew up around Arabian horses in their homeland: The former’s father started Al Shaqab Stable in 1992, and the latter’s father started the Arabian outfit Umm Qarn. Making the switch from Arabians to thoroughbred racing in Europe is like switching from Formula 2 to Formula 1 in car racing. If there is a template for their arrival, it would be the decades-old Godolphin and Darley operation of Sheikh Mohammed al-Maktoum of Dubai, who also grew up around Arabian horses. Sheikh Mohammed, like Sheikh Fahad, was educated in England, where he became attracted to the sport. Similar to Sheikh Mohammed, Sheikh Fahad and Sheikh Joaan, who are in their late 20s, see their stables as representing their homeland. “He very much sees Al Shaqab as representing Qatar and showing a good face of the country,” said Harry Herbert, the racing advisor to Sheikh Joaan. “This isn’t just his own personal interest, he feels this is important for Qatar.” Both men want to win the biggest races, and Sheikh Joaan in particular seems willing to spend whatever it takes. His younger cousin started more slowly, hiring the respected bloodstock agent David Redvers of Tweenhills Stud as his advisor in 2010. The next year, they won the Melbourne Cup with Dunaden, who was an ordinary horse in his early years.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Sheikh Joaan, on the other hand, splashed around money upon his arrival in 2013, first on Trêve and then on others. At the Tattersalls yearling sale in October, he purchased 16 yearlings for nearly 11 million pounds, or $18.45 million, narrowly missing the role of leading buyer in Book One to Sheikh Mohammed’s advisor, John Ferguson. He also paid a little more than £5 million to top Coolmore’s John Magnier for a filly by Galileo, the highest price in European auction history. Jacobs had a front-row seat, as his family’s English farm, Newsells Park Stud, was the leading consignor in Book One. He is also a partner with Sheikh Fahad in the 2013 Epsom Oaks runner-up Secret Gesture, a Newsells homebred, and Purr Along, a Group 3 winner that they recently bought together for £1.05 million. “Until last December, they’ve been buying independently, and they found out they were sometimes bidding against each other — which sort of amused the world,” Jacobs said. “But they’re much smarter now because they’ve coordinated their actions.” Jacobs pointed to the hiring of Herbert in February as a turning point. Herbert, 55, founded Highclere Thoroughbred Racing, one of the foremost syndication groups, in 1993, and also serves as racing consultant to the Cartier Awards. His father, the late Lord Carnarvon, was the queen’s longtime racing manager, a position now held by Herbert’s brother-in-law, John Warren. Advertisement Since Herbert joined the team, Jacobs said, Sheikh Joaan “has become much more reasonable in his spending.” “When he showed up before,” he added, “people said, ‘Oh my god, it’s going to get expensive.’ I think that’s good news, since everybody wants a professional bidder.” The previous status quo, in which Coolmore only bought offspring of Coolmore sires, and Darley did the same, has changed, since the Qataris will buy from both operations. Jacobs calls this a healthy development. In a powerful display of influence, Al Shaqab bought 50 percent of the Coolmore-controlled Epsom Derby winner Ruler of the World before the Dubai World Cup in March, a race in which he carried the colors of his new part-owner. This year, Sheikh Joaan retained as his primary jockey Frankie Dettori, who for 18 years held that role with Godolphin until 2012. Al Shaqab has also purchased several big-ticket yearlings in the United States to establish a new American offshoot that will grow over time. “Rome was not built in a day; it can’t be in racing,” Herbert said. “Bit by bit, we will put in the building blocks to hopefully create an Al Shaqab that will be competitive throughout the world.” Those blocks include thoroughbred racing in Qatar, a move similar to what Sheikh Mohammed started in Dubai almost 20 years ago, beginning at Nad Al Sheba racecourse and morphing into the lucrative Dubai Carnival. Qatar is building a brand-new racecourse and training center in Doha, surrounded by entertainment venues and about 900 stables. In a short time, Qatar has stamped itself on international racing. and its aspirations seem limitless. “You have to understand that if the royal family does these things, then others could follow,” Jacobs said. “Qataris being so young and so passionate about horses, and so wealthy, they could easily in 10 years become the biggest power in horse racing — in the world.” A version of this special report appears in print on June 17, 2014, in The International New York Times.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »