Advertisement By MURRAY CHASS and  The World Series came to Atlanta for the first time tonight, and the Braves won their first game of this World Series. It wasn't easy, but David Justice made sure he touched third base en route to scoring the winning run. The Braves avoided being pushed to the brink of post-season disaster by edging the Minnesota Twins, 5-4, in 12 innings in Game 3. Atlanta needed the victory because the Twins had won the first two games at their friendly Metrodome home. Mark Lemke, whose error in the top half of the inning presented the Twins with an opportunity they couldn't capitalize on, drove in the winning run with a looping two-out single to left field. Rick Aguilera gave up the hit after failing to get one himself as a pinch-hitter with the bases loaded and two out in the Twins' half of the inning. The Twins' No. 1 reliever hit a hard line drive to center field, but Ron Gant caught it easily. The game, the longest in the World Series since the first game in 1977 between the Yankees and the Los Angeles Dodgers -- also 12 innings -- ended here at 12:42 A.M. The teams used a Series-record 42 players (23 by Minnesota) and 12 pinch-hitters in a game that took 4 hours 4 minutes to complete. Advertisement With one out in the 12th, Justice lined a single to right. With two out, he stole second. Aguilera, who had two strikes on Greg Olson, walked him, bringing up Lemke. A foul ball and a called ball later, Lemke looped a one-bounce single to left. Advertisement "I was looking for a good fastball to hit, a pitch in," Lemke said. "I overswung on the first pitch but fouled it off and that settled me down. I got a chance to think about it a litte bit. Then with one strike, I started looking away and I got one away." Dan Gladden charged the ball and threw home, but the ball bounced twice and skipped wide enough of the plate to the third-base side that Justice was able to slide in head-first ahead of Brian Harper's attempted tag. Unlike the fifth game of the National League playoff, when Justice missed third base on a Lemke single, the runner this time got the base, and the run counted. "As long as he touched third base, I was happy," Lemke said, smiling broadly. In Game No. 4 Wednesday night, John Smoltz will try to get the Braves even when he starts against Jack Morris, the anchor of the Twins' staff, who will seek his fourth victory in this post-season period and second over the Braves. The Braves snatched the extra-inning victory after squandering a 4-1 lead. The squanderers were an unlikely pair of pitchers, Steve Avery and Alejandro Pena. Avery, who registered a pair of 1-0 victories in shutting out Pittsburgh for 161/3 innings in the National League playoff, seemed to be in command of this game as well. But he left after an inning-opening error by Terry Pendleton in the eighth, and a minute later, his 4-2 lead departed as well. Pena, who had been perfect in save situations for the Braves -- 11 for 11 in the last five weeks of the season and 3 for 3 in the National League playoff -- replaced Avery, and pinch-hitter Chili Davis hit his second World Series home run. The Twins altered the post-season success Avery had experienced, but David Justice altered the pattern of poor play into which he had plummeted in the post-season games. Advertisement Justice's throwing error in the fourth game of the playoff with Pittsburgh enabled the Pirates to tie the game, which they won in 10 innings, 3-2. His fifth-game baserunning blunder -- his failure to touch third base en route home on a single -- enabled the Pirates to win, 1-0. Justice Finally Delivers His failure to catch a pop-up in short right field, then causing Mark Lemke to drop it, led to two runs in the first inning of the second game of the World Series, which the Twins won, 3-2. His failure, with Ron Gant, to catch Dan Gladden's fly ball in the first inning tonight led to the Twins' first run.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But Justice's fourth-inning effort tonight was strictly positive. Leading off the inning, Justice swung at Scott Erickson's 3-1 pitch and drove it over the right-field fence, putting the Braves ahead, 2-1, the first time they had led in the Series. Lonnie Smith hit a home run with one out in the fifth, boosting the Braves' lead to 3-1. Smith has played on three different World Series championship teams, but this was his first home run in 83 World Series times at bat and 151 post-season at-bats. Confusion Brings a Triple Gladden, the left fielder, began the game with a fly ball to right-center field that became a gift triple when Justice and Gant let the ball streak between them as they crossed. Either one, had he been by himself, could have caught the ball, but their proximity to each other seemed to prompt each to shy away slightly or short-arm his attempt to catch the ball. Gladden reached third and promptly scored as Chuck Knoblauch hit a fly to right that Justice caught. Knoblauch turned out to be the first of 15 batters Avery retired in order. From Kirby Puckett, the last out in the first inning, through Gladden, the last out in the third, Avery struck out five of seven batters he faced. He didn't strike out anyone after that, but the Twins didn't do too much damage when they made contact with the ball. Junior Ortiz, catching in Brian Harper's place because Erickson was pitching, snapped Avery's string of 15 consecutive outs by leading off the sixth with a single to center. Pinch-hitter Gene Larkin also singled, giving the Twins runners at first and second with no one out. But Avery retired Gladden on a fly to deep left, Knoblauch on a foul pop and Kent Hrbek on a fly to the wall in center. Two More for Braves In the previous inning, the Braves had scored two runs, raising their lead to 4-1. After Smith hit his home run with one out, Erickson walked Terry Pendleton but then got Gant on a pop-up to second. Justice followed with a grounder to second that should have been the third out, but when Knoblauch took the ball out of his glove to throw to first, he dropped it for an error. Pendleton had moved to second on a wild pitch, and he went to third on the error. Advertisement Sid Bream, a left-hand hitter, was the next batter, and Tom Kelly, the Minnesota manager, called for David West, a left-handed pitcher, to face him. But West walked Bream, loading the bases, then walked Greg Olson, forcing in another run. Terry Leach relieved West and struck out Lemke, keeping the score reasonable. Puckett hit a home run in the seventh inning, slicing the Braves' lead to 4-2, and serving as the forerunner of the game-tying home run in the eighth. Harper, batting for Ortiz, led off the eighth by hitting a grounder to third. Pendleton, usually sure-handed, bobbled the ball, and Harper beat his throw to first. Like Erickson, Avery then departed following an error. Like Pendleton, Pena did not do that to which the Braves had become accustomed. A dominant closer since the Braves acquired him from the Mets Aug. 29, Pena faltered badly. Davis, batting for Steve Bedrosian, the Twins' fourth pitcher, slugged Pena's 1-1 pitch over the left-field fence. Keith Mitchell, who had replaced Smith in left in the seventh, ran back as the ball soared through the air, but he reached the fence with nowhere to go as the ball kept going. INSIDE PITCH Before the game, Manager BOBBY COX of Atlanta said that TOM GLAVINE, and not CHARLIE LEIBRANDT, would start the fifth game here. Leibrandt was the losing pitcher in the first game. Glavine in the second, but Cox said that he would come back with Glavine on three days' rest because he threw only 108 pitches in his game. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 23, 1991, on Page B00007 of the National edition with the headline: WORLD SERIES; Lemke Ends Long Night as Braves Win in 12th.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »