Advertisement By BARBARA LLOYD and  Dennis Conner, who last month looked as if he had lost his habit of winning America's Cup races, has rediscovered his old ways. Today, in the trials for prospective cup defenders, Conner's Stars & Stripes beat America3, one of Bill Koch's two contenders, by 45 seconds. It was the fourth time in a row that Conner had whipped a Koch boat here. In the final two matches of the last round of defender-trial races, Conner beat America3 and Defiant, one of Koch's older yachts. On Saturday, the first day of this round, in effect the defenders' semifinals, Conner defeated Kanza, Koch's newest cup yacht. The victory today put the Conner team into the lead in the defenders' standing for the first time since the race series started in January. Stars & Stripes now has 3 points, Kanza has 2, and America3 has none. The match today was one of the closest races yet in cup trials. The lead between the two boats changed three times in the first leg, with Stars & Stripes rounding the first mark ahead by 25 seconds. Advertisement "It was kind of puffy and streaky out there today," Conner said after the race. "Whoever had the puffs had the edge." America3 was in control at the start, forcing Stars & Stripes off to the left side of the 20.3-mile course at a time when the right side was favored. But the maneuver wasn't enough to keep Conner's team from driving past America3 on the left, and taking the lead about 15 minutes into the first leg. Koch managed to get ahead once again in the first leg, but failed to keep Conner from regaining the lead. Advertisement Koch steered America3 through the first leg, an unusual move because he ordinarily takes the helm toward the end of that leg or later. Buddy Melges, his alternate helmsman, then took over. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 1, 1992, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: YACHT RACING; Conner's 4th in a Row Gives Him Overall Lead.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »