Advertisement By JOE SEXTON Maybe Braniff Airlines had a worse last quarter than the Mets. Maybe the Major Indoor Soccer League did. In any case, the list is short and bittersweet. So maybe Mayor Dinkins, who knows something about falling in and out of favor in New York, can work out a deal to have flight patterns adjusted at LaGuardia so that all planes go directly over Shea Stadium. The place could be starved for noise by early August. Oh, all right. The Mets aren't out of it in the National League East. And, true, they could stumble along for a while and not topple out of contention. But the Mets, 22-18 in the first quarter, went 20-28 to get to the season's unofficial halfway mark. Serious contenders are allowed one quarter like that a year. Blue-Chip Performers Sorry, boss, we've got only two -- Eddie Murray and David Cone. Murray, Buddha with a bat, is on a pace for 110 runs batted in. Cone, with a 9-4 record and a claim on all relevant statistical categories, is on a pace for either an enormous contract or a major trade. Get your checkbook, Al Harazin, or get your rotisserie stats and get thee to a telephone. New Highs Bobby Bonilla might be reading some unprecedented numbers on his bathroom scale. The right fielder, who has been bothered by a bum leg, hasn't eased the strain on his wheels with his weight. He could drop 15 without compromising his extra-base power. Sid Fernandez -- no, we won't talk about his encounters with the scale -- has eight losses and looks plenty enough cursed to establish a personal best for defeats. Dwight Gooden, halfway through the season, is one defeat shy of his career high. New Lows Advertisement Six errors in one game June 10 in Montreal. The club batting average is .234, lowest in majors. The Mets went 35 straight innings without a run at Shea. The Mets have scored fewer than three runs in a game 19 times in the 38 games since June 1. The Mets came within a single percentage point of last place in the N.L. East on June 20. On the whole, Philadelphia would rather be in sixth. And, of course, there was the infamous ninth inning of July 8. Three men on, no one out, down by a run. Five pitches from Al Pena manufactured three outs. Hojo's Continuing Deficit Advertisement Howard Johnson has 1 homer and 4 r.b.i. in his last 81 at-bats. He has three homers since May 5 (58 games). He has 24 total extra-base hits in 1992. He had 76 in 1991. He has had a total of 13 games with more than one hit. He has only two homers from the seventh inning on. . . . Most Active Issues  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Johnson's undisguised annoyance at his shift, temporary or not, to left field and his insecurity about his play in center had the veteran talking Sunday as if he might be traded. Interesting. Bonilla's temperament for the temperatures of New York-style heat -- his famous phone call, his ejection by the umpire Harry Wendelstedt -- is being monitored by everyone, his teammates included. And Manager Jeff Torborg's expanding list of strategic curiosities -- allowing Gooden to hit in Chicago, playing Chico Walker at second base more than once, not playing Mackey Sasser more than once a month -- has tainted his stature in his own clubhouse. Stock Exchanges Junior Noboa could be released soon, and left-hander Paul Gibson could follow. Could Chris Donnels, the infielder in the minors who has begun to hit again, get a call? Will anyone give anything of value for Sasser? Want to get crazy? Let the Mets get a dozen back by late August and then let the auction for Cone begin. Preferred Holdings No one is untouchable. A lot are untradeable: Bonilla, Murray, Gooden, probably Vince Coleman. The portfolio of prospects isn't thick, either. Jose Martinez, Bobby Jones, Al Shirley and Butch Huskey are prospects who won't be bartered. Raw Goods Talk about diminishing -- anyone say disappearing? -- returns. Anthony Young won his first start and none thereafter, a span at 95 days and counting. But he has shown flash as a short reliever. He has converted all three of his save chances and struck out three and allowed no hits in his last three relief appearances. Bottom Line In another division, it would already be another wasted season for the Mets. But if a courageous, constructive deal could be made, the N.L. East might be had. Harazin, a genius with a checkbook last fall, will have his acumen and instincts tested anew. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 14, 1992, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Second-Quarter Report: Mets.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »