Advertisement By JOE SEXTON Bobby Bonilla signed an autograph for the homeless man wedged against the door, and the limousine at last slid into midtown traffic and began its unglamorous glide along 42d Street. Bonilla stared out an open window, the peep-show parlors and pornographic bookstores creeping by in the dirty February sunlight. At a red light, another limousine came to a halt alongside Bonilla's, and a passenger, his face bloodshot and belligerent, screamed at Bonilla. In New York, evidently, even the quality of limo life is eroding. Unmoved, but not exactly unhurried, Bonilla fingered a switch and 42d Street disappeared behind his car's smoked window. That was enough of that world. Inside the limousine, Bonilla, the free agent outfielder the Mets signed to a gargantuan five-year, $29 million contract last November, nestled back into his seat and smiled at the voice of a different man, the one sitting next to him. In a rap filled with energy, if not rhymes, Barry Bonds, Bonilla's friend and co-conspirator in offense and controversy for the Pittsburgh Pirates, was sounding off. "Bobby always was second best to me, and he will be again when I sign my contract after next season," said Bonds, laughing. "Hey, the guy was 6-foot-4, 220 pounds in the minors, and there he was at the plate in a squat like Rod Carew. He never had power stats. What did he hit, like six home runs one season? But Bobby was going to the majors. You could tell that." Advertisement Bonds caught his breath and then another train of thought. "If I come to New York, I'm coming to the Mets," said Bonds. "Bobby and me, we'd be together again, and believe me we were good together -- B. B. and B. B. and Andy Van Who? It's sad it won't be that way again this season. But the Mets look like they treat Bobby like royalty. And by the way, B. B., when are you going to get yourself up on one of these giant buildings like Dwight Gooden?" Advertisement With that, Bonds tumbled out of the limousine and into his Manhattan hotel, the closed door leaving Bonilla in silence and thought. He laughed softly. That world was gone for now, likely for good. The Children Cheer Roughly 48 hours later, Bonilla, surrounded by shrieking South Bronx schoolchildren, sat in his old school auditorium and listened as the chorus from I.S. 162 welcomed back a hero. A chunky, shy boy got behind the microphone and, struggling to hold his notes as well as his head high, sang a song about confusion and hurt and hope. Bonilla didn't cry, but appeared moved to the point of looking troubled. This was a world looking to him. Worlds. Bobby Bonilla, the right fielder with millions, memories and maybe moral responsibilities, is at once empowered to control worlds with a flick of a limousine switch, incapable of preserving worlds of friendship and competitive camaraderie that he once treasured, and asked to positively affect the worlds of children. The emotional geopolitics of it all can be overwhelming. "There's a ton of stuff going through my mind, but so far I don't see anything wrong with coming home," Bonilla said. "Still, I can't promise anyone anything but my best effort." Of course, Bonilla's best efforts, his signing with the Mets notwithstanding, haven't always been good enough. As a child, his best efforts couldn't keep his parents from divorcing, a rupture of profound proportions. As a teen-ager, his best efforts couldn't conquer the workload of 18 credits in his abbreviated tenure at New York Technical College. His best efforts with a bat and glove couldn't make him a baseball star soon enough for his cherished grandparents to experience his fame. And his best efforts to understand and accept the vagaries and inequities of the American political system have left him disinclined to vote in any election. "New York City, after being away for 12 years, looks like a place with a lot of problems," said Bonilla. "But that doesn't make it foreign to me. Growing up was hard. Coming home to baby sitters instead of parents was hard. Even baseball has been very hard and confusing to me." A Payback Advertisement And so the 28-year-old Bonilla believes that if his current contract means he never has to worry again about finances, it is merely the just payback for years of doubts and travails. There was the season he spent living with his wife in a Renault, the season he hit .217 in the minors, the season he broke his ankle, was left off the Pittsburgh roster and drafted by the White Sox.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. There has been, as well, the stunning, successive deaths of his grandparents, the struggle with disease by other members of the family, the less important, but nonetheless embarrassing, losses at arbitration with the Pirates in recent seasons, and the failures in consecutive National League Championship Series. "There's a whole lot left to dream about," said Bonilla. "To get to the World Series would still be a thrill. Heck, I might even win me a Gold Glove one strange day. But I am no robot, and I'm not saying the challenge of New York is nothing, that Reggie Jackson was zero compared to what I'll do. I'm not going to hit 50 home runs unless you come to my house and play Nintendo with me. Shoot, it's frightening, but that's also what's exciting. That's what being on the stage is about." And Bonilla's composure and charisma on that stage appear to be no act. His ebullience on the field and energy in the clubhouse were qualities that greatly inflated his marketability, and whatever the merits of the occasional grousing from Pittsburgh, it's hard to believe that the warmth and gregariousness that has made him fast friends with Howard Johnson and a magnetic presence in public aren't genuine. "I met him for the first time in Lunchroom A in 10th grade," said Millie Bonilla, the outfielder's wife who attended Lehman High School in the Bronx with Bonilla. "He was a very observant guy -- kind, quiet, with a sweet spirit. There was something soft about him." People still sense that softness and reach out for it. Bonilla, at Madison Square Garden for a St. John's basketball game last Saturday, stood in sneakers and sweater and talked and laughed and ate popcorn and shook hands with anyone and everyone. And inside his limousine afterward, he signed the homeless man's scrap of paper. And at I.S. 162, children, the world's best detectors of fakes, swarmed all over him. They lost their arms up to their shoulders in his giant handshake, and one young girl, having offered her own solo as a member of the chorus, sought out Millie Bonilla. "Can I kiss your husband?" she asked. "I won't but kiss him on the cheek." Permission was granted. A day was made. A Fan of Spielberg "When I tried college, I went to N.Y. Tech because I wanted to get into communications; I wanted to be behind the camera," said Bonilla. "I'm a fan of Steven Spielberg because he has the kind of imagination I'd like to have. He reaches; he's like a child. It's how I want to be on the baseball field." Advertisement Of course, there are any number of adult concerns to trouble himself with, as well: a home to find in the New York area, investments to consider, charities to involve himself with. "Nothing has got sorted out," said Bonilla. "I haven't, after all, received anything yet. It's a misconception that $29 million was just dumped in my garage. I can't even grasp it all." There are, though, some certainties and clear-cut understandings. "I know I'll be under a tremendous microscope," he said. "I'm sure ESPN will have a Bobby Bonilla watch to see if I'm worth the dough. And I'm sure I'll be gone after in the papers. But I'm immune to it. It wasn't on a grandiose scale in Pittsburgh, but I know what it's like to get blasted. Hey, let's get started." Hello, world. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 7, 1992, on Page B00012 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Limo or Train, Bonilla Knows Way to Shea.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »