Advertisement 
Extra Bases  By                     
 TYLER KEPNER
 
JUNE 14, 2014
 In his first two seasons as general manager of the Los Angeles Angels, Jerry Dipoto watched his team all but disappear from contention in the early-season quicksand. In 2012, the Angels doomed themselves with a 6-14 start. Last year, they lost 22 of their first 33. The Angels wobbled a bit this April but survived the month with a winning record. Now, after taking a recent series from the first-place Oakland Athletics, they enter the summer with the title they have always assumed for themselves: contenders. “They believe in each other, and we didn’t dig ourselves into a pit that we had to claw out of,” Dipoto said. “We managed to hang in there through a sometimes tough April. Once we got outside of those first two weeks and started moving forward, it’s been fairly steady.” The Angels have not reached the playoffs since 2009, the year they drafted Mike Trout. Since then, Trout has emerged as perhaps the game’s best player, and the team has signed Albert Pujols and Josh Hamilton. But the Texas Rangers and, more recently, the A’s have owned the American League West. Advertisement The A.L. West had baseball’s best division winning percentage entering Saturday, and the Angels have gone just 13-18 in division play. But they have such a good record against other teams that they are leading the wild-card race, buoyed by a rotation whose 3.65 earned run average entering Friday ranked second only to Oakland’s in the A.L. Advertisement “I think, for the most part, over the last two and a half years we have been a good offensive club,” Dipoto said. “The big puzzle for us has been how to best create a 12-man pitching staff — or, as importantly, extend from No. 13 to 18, because those guys are going to contribute throughout a long season. “The biggest change for us this year has been the emergence of Garrett Richards. We have a general idea of what we’re going to get out of Weave, and C. J. has been as consistent as they come. Garrett has really stepped up. His maturity has caught up with his ability, which is a great thing. He’s been awesome.” Jered Weaver, C. J. Wilson and Richards give the Angels an imposing front three, with Richards, who split time as a starter and a reliever last season, a breakout star. Richards was 6-2 with a 3.09 E.R.A. entering Saturday and had allowed only two homers in his first 13 starts. “His preparation has improved exponentially, and his ability to deal with in-game adversity and adjust is tremendous,” Dipoto said. “He understands that we trust him, and I think he’s had an All-Star first half. His stuff suggests there’s no reason it can’t continue.” Richards was one of four compensatory picks the Angels received in the 2009 draft for losing free agents to New York teams: Mark Teixeira to the Yankees and Francisco Rodriguez to the Mets. They drafted Trout and pitcher Tyler Skaggs with their Teixeira picks, and outfielder Randal Grichuk and Richards with their Rodriguez picks. The compensation system has changed, but the Angels made the most of it then. Skaggs is back after a detour to the Arizona Diamondbacks, and he was pitching well in the rotation before a recent hamstring injury. Grichuk went to St. Louis in November in a deal for third baseman David Freese and reliever Fernando Salas. Freese has reached base well lately and made no errors in the field, but with a .284 slugging percentage entering Saturday, he has not resembled the player who starred for the Cardinals in the 2011 postseason. Advertisement “What we thought we were getting was a professional hitter who knew how to get on base and produce runs,” Dipoto said, “and generally, after the first three weeks of the season, where he really struggled, he’s done those things. He’s not a star — he’s a contributor, he’s a piece of a good team, and we still feel like he is that.” Dipoto sounded more concerned about the lack of a left-hander in the bullpen, acknowledging that the Angels would probably need to go outside the organization to find one. Even so, the team had 13 homegrown players on its roster last week, respectable for an organization that dwells at or near the bottom of most farm system rankings after going two years without a first-round draft pick. “We feel like we’ve got a lot of nice, complementary role players — and a couple who have a chance to turn into everyday guys — throughout our system, specifically at upper levels,” Dipoto said. “When we’ve needed to call on them, they’ve all contributed in positive ways.” The Angels’ foundation still seems somewhat shaky. Pujols has slumped after a torrid start, and in 2016, the team will pay more than $98 million to four players who will be 33 or older: Pujols, Hamilton, Weaver and Wilson. By then, the lack of strong prospects could hurt.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. For now, though, the pricey veterans and the farm-system products have carried the Angels to the spot they wanted, poised for a pennant race in which they lead for a playoff spot instead of chasing one.  Promoting Pitcher Safety  Alex Cobb, a starter for the Tampa Bay Rays, never intended to be a spokesman for pitcher safety. But a line drive to his head last June sidelined him for two months, and he said he was “pushed into the conversation.” Now he is trying to advance it. Last week, Cobb agreed to endorse a padded youth skull cap, made by isoBlox and sold at Dick’s Sporting Goods, to help reduce the risk of injury to young pitchers. The $59.99 retail price seems like a lot for a hat, but youth aluminum bats often cost much more. “I don’t think the price is too much to pay for safety,” Cobb said. Cobb was discouraged this spring because prototypes of the padded caps for major league pitchers were not more readily available. By now, though, he said about 60 pitchers had received custom-fitted models. Cobb has not worn his in a game, but he said he and other pitchers could play a vital role by making suggestions for improving it. “The more feedback, the better it’s going to become,” Cobb said. “The biggest thing holding us back is just the size of it right now. The fact that you have an extra inch in front of the bill that is not typically there, that’s one thing that messes with your depth perception a little bit. The good thing about the youth model is your cap can go right on top of it, so you don’t even notice that aspect. The weight of it can get a little heavy, too, but we can work on that, and at the youth level it’s very lightweight. Advertisement “It takes time, but the No. 1 thing is that the foot’s in the door, and it’s become an option for guys at the big-league level. It’s only going to get better as time goes on, and hopefully in the future, we’ll look back to when guys were not wearing a protective cap and think they were crazy.”  Verlander’s Struggles  On the day he was named the Detroit Tigers’ opening-day starter, Justin Verlander explained his goal for this season. “I want to pitch like I’m supposed to pitch,” he said. “I hold myself to a higher standard than I think anybody could, and I expect to pitch like I know I can. Last year I didn’t. What caused that, I don’t know.” Verlander is still searching. He was 13-12 with a 3.46 E.R.A. last season, and now, after a rough night in Chicago on Wednesday, he is 6-6 with a 4.61 E.R.A. Verlander is averaging 6.6 strikeouts per nine innings, his fewest since 2006, and 3.8 walks per nine innings, his highest rate since 2008. From another perspective, though, he could just be in a slump. Through eight starts this season, Verlander’s E.R.A. was 2.67. In his last six starts, it is 7.41. “This stretch reminds me of 2009,” Verlander told The Detroit News. “I had a horrible April, but my stuff was great, and I knew I was going to be there.” Things turned out fine for Verlander in 2009 (he was 19-9 with a 3.45 E.R.A.), and the Tigers need a similar resurgence now. Their other ace, Max Scherzer, is headed for free agency, and Verlander, 31, is guaranteed $28 million each season from 2015 through 2019. A version of this article appears in print on June 15, 2014, on Page SP10 of the New York edition with the headline: New Position for Angels: Contention.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »