Advertisement By DAVE ANDERSON HE'S a touring pro again, at age 50 a Senior PGA Tour rookie in the Nynex Commemorative that starts here Friday at Sleepy Hollow. But wherever Dave Stockton goes, it's as if he were still the Ryder Cup captain. "At the time, I was proudest of helping 12 guys and their wives get their pride back," he was saying now, alluding to the United States golfers' 14 1/2-13 1/2 victory over Europe's best at Kiawah Island, S.C., last September. "But now it's the number of people who come up to me and say, 'Thank you for the greatest golf event I've ever seen.' Every day six or seven people do that. Sometimes more." In next year's biennial matches, the United States will defend the Ryder Cup at the Belfrey in England with Tom Watson as captain. "It'll be close again, it'll be a toss-up," Stockton said. "But we'll have not only Freddie Couples, but also Davis Love. I think winning the cup changed the mentality of the American golfers. Look at this year's Masters." Advertisement Over the four previous years, a European golfer had won at Augusta National -- Ian Woosnam, Nick Faldo twice, Sandy Lyle. Advertisement "This year," Stockton said, "four of the first five at the Masters were our Ryder Cup golfers, beginning with the winner, Fred Couples, followed by Raymond Floyd, Corey Pavin and Mark O'Meara. They got their message across." They also got their message across the Atlantic, where even Europeans agree that Couples deserves his No. 1 ranking in the Sony computer. But before last year's matches, Stockton was uncertain as to how Couples would react after missing the 18th green with a wedge in a 1-up loss to Christy O'Connor in the 1989 matches at the Belfry. That cost the United States a chance to regain the cup it had lost in 1985 for the first time since 1957, and second since 1933. "I felt Freddie would be my biggest asset or a small problem," Stockton recalled. "If Freddie hadn't made the team, I might not have picked Raymond Floyd as one of my wild cards. I wanted Raymond to team with Freddie in the alternate-shot and best-ball matches. The first two days they won two of their three team matches together." "The Saturday night before the 12 singles matches that would decide the cup I told Freddie, 'Ten years from now you're going to help some kid the way Raymond is helping you now. Not that you need help. You don't.' As he's proved ever since. And I think what Raymond did in the Ryder Cup stimulated him to having the year he's having at 49."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In the singles Couples defeated Sam Torrance, 3 and 2, and the Americans won when Hale Irwin salvaged a tie and half a point as Bernhard Langer missed a 5-foot putt on the final green. "Bernard Gallacher has admitted making a mistake by putting his strongest players in the middle of the 12 singles matches," Stockton said of the European captain. "I wanted to be strong early and late. Get off to a good start and have good finishers. I wanted to put Lanny Wadkins first because he likes to play fast, but he said, 'Do me a favor, let me go off late so I can get more rest.' I put him next to last and he beat Mark James." But before next year's matches, Stockton would like to see a change in the Ryder Cup format: have a stand-by replacement for an injured golfer. Advertisement "When we lost Steve Pate after the limo accident Wednesday night," Stockton said, "I didn't want to bring in Tim Simpson at the 11th hour because he hadn't been part of the team. But the rules should allow for a team stand-by in case a player is injured. You shouldn't have only 11 singles matches instead of 12 just because Steve's bruised side suddenly got worse Sunday morning." Stockton also recommended that the 1995 captain assist Watson at next year's matches. "I knew last July that Watson was going to be next year's captain," Stockton said. "It would've helped me and Tom for him to be at last year's matches. I think the 1995 captain will probably be Lanny Wadkins, Hale Irwin or Tom Kite. Whoever it is, he should be with Watson to get the feel of it." On the Senior Tour, meanwhile, Stockton is searching for the feel that won the 1970 and 1976 Professional Golfers Association titles. "I'm really working on my game for the first time in 15 years," he said. "I'm going to play a ton to get the old vibes. It's fun to see my name on the leaderboard again. I'm 11th on the money list and I haven't even won a tournament yet, but I will." Believe him. This time last year Dave Stockton was telling the golf world that the United States would regain the Ryder Cup. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 26, 1992, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; Stockton's Ryder Cup Flashback.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »