Advertisement By CLAIRE SMITH Rickey Henderson politicking for a trade or a better contract, that's not surprising. Dennis Eckersley being a perfect 24-for-24 in save situations, that's not surprising. The Cleveland Indians' holding up the rest of the major leagues, that's not surprising. But that does not mean that the 1992 baseball season hasn't already had its share of amazing stories, some of significant proportions, some merely pleasant, others about as welcome to teams and players as an abscessed tooth on a holiday weekend. Here's an attempt at choosing the top 10 surprises in baseball as the 1992 season nears its midway point: 1. Comeback Players of the Decade? Let's face it, the prognosticators who predicted greatness for Brady Anderson and Gary Sheffield moved on to other causes long ago. But clearly, they gave too soon, because both are enjoying career years so far, putting up numbers worthy of early consideration for post-season awards. Anderson, once considered a future savior of the Red Sox only to wind up on Baltimore's bench, has been completely resurrected by the Orioles as a standout left fielder. As a full-timer, he is batting .278, has scored 43 runs, stolen 24 bases and driven in 46 runs. Sheffield, just as successful a reclamation project, has risen from the dredges in Milwaukee to new heights in San Diego, batting .320 for the Padres. Sheffield has hit 15 home runs and 14 doubles and driven in 53 runs. 2. The Little Infielder Who Could Unlike Anderson and Sheffield, Andy Stankiewicz, the Yankees shortstop, wasn't looking for a second chance, just a chance. And he wasn't going to get that until Mike Gallego went down with an injury just as the season was to open. Yankee Manager Buck Showalter, a Stankiewicz believer since he managed the infielder in the minors, brought the long shot to the major leagues and immediate success, not to mention an Cinderella story, followed (.321, 13 doubles, 27 runs scored). 3. A Little Change Is a Good Thing What the Atlanta Falcons' secondary may lose is turning out to be baseball's most pleasant gain. Deion Sanders, a second-team All-Pro in football, is proving to be an all-star for the Braves, shedding the label of Punch-and-Judy hitter/designated runner by blossoming into a leadoff threat with pop (.348 with 11 triples, six home runs, 18 stolen bases). Meanwhile, another Falcon defensive back, Brian Jordan, has enjoyed enough success with the Cardinals (5 home runs, 22 r.b.i., 6 stolen bases) to shelve the football cleats and take on baseball as a full-time career. Advertisement 4. Seattle's Shooting Stars It should be no surprise that the Seattle Mariners have launched the career of yet another young pitching phenom in one Dave Fleming (10-3, 3.35 earned run average). The 22-year-old's victory total, compiled in less than a half a season is just 9 shy of his two-year minor-league total. The real surprise is that the Mariners have still not figured a way to avoid jettisoning promising arms. Last winter's sweep is contributing today to pleasant surprises blossoming in Minnesota (Bill Krueger, 7-2, 2.83 earned run average), and San Francisco (Billy Swift, 6-0, 2.17 e.r.a.; Mike Jackson, 3- 2, 2.50 e.r.a.). Advertisement 5. La-La Lost in Los Angeles It is not a surprise that most every Dodger on the field has trouble catching the ball. But who would have thought that the Dodgers would be equally adept at being inept offensively? Even the team's usually optimistic manager, Tommy Lasorda, must look in alarm at the fact that there's no clutch in the Little Blue Bicycle (6-20 in one-run games). Another obvious worry: the league's leaders in runs batted in have individual totals greater than the combined total of his oft-injured big-contract players, Darryl Strawberry (21 r.b.i.) and Eric Davis (19). 6. The Boston Massacre Talk about the truly offensive. The Red Sox rank 14th and last in the American League in batting average, runs scored, hits, total bases, home runs, runs batted in and slugging percentage. And they play in Fenway Park, one of the more notorious band boxes in the American League. Well, at least the names Wade Boggs, Mike Greenwell, Jack Clark, Ellis Burks and Tom Brunansky still look good on paper. But come on, guys, the rabbits who play in St. Louis's spacious Busch Memorial have more home runs.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 7. The Express Derails Nolan Ryan, who has pitched in the major leagues since 1968, never went through an April without a victory -- until this season. Now he has gone through May and most of June without a victory. July now looms for the Ranger right-hander, bringing questions as to whether the bad luck can all be chalked up to bad weather and bad timing on the part of the Rangers' batters. 8. Flying Dutchman I Bert Blyleven, who did not pitch professionally in 1991 because of shoulder surgery, has defied the odds by returning to the majors and winning with apparent ease for the Angels. The Dutch-born Blyleven, who turned 41 on April 6, is 3-1 with a 2.63 e.r.a. and has obviously refueled the notion that he may yet have a shot at joining the illustrious 300 victory-3,000 strikeout club (the right-hander has 282 victories and 3,656 strikeouts). 9. Flying Dutchman II Darren (Dutch) Daulton, the dean of the Phillies, has never driven in more than 57 runs in a season or hit more than a dozen home runs. Now he stands on the threshold of July with 53 r.b.i. and 12 home runs, at last rewarding the Phillies for hanging in for the eighth year while waiting for Daulton to come of age at the plate. 10. Biggest Bust-Up Since Martin and Lewis Kevin Mitchell and Matt Williams, ex-teammates and kindred spirits, seem to be lost now that they're not linked in the Giants' lineup. Mitchell, flailing and failing in Seattle, has only 4 home runs and 29 r.b.i., killing the theory that the Mariners finally found a bat to protect young Ken Griffey. Williams, left behind in San Francisco, has openly mourned the loss of Mitchell, whose swing and style he mimicked. Williams's average is hovering around .200, and he has hit only 11 home runs and driven in just 35 runs. The strikeouts -- 50 in 239 at-bats -- remain a mystery. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 28, 1992, on Page 8008009 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; The Top 10 Surprises So Far...  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »