Advertisement By CLAIRE SMITH and  Amazing. Stunning. Totally unexpected. No, not the 6-0 Yankees, as in the last undefeated team in the major leagues. What's amazing, stunning and totally unexpected is that the Yankees' pitching has everything but everything to do with that big six in the victory column. This team, not Oakland, not Toronto, not the Roger Clemens-led Boston Red Sox, leads the American League in pitching, with a 1.83 earned run average. That number remained remarkably respectable for another night because the Yankees' pitchers, defying all the seers, remained remarkably poised for a sixth straight game in defeating the Toronto Blue Jays tonight, 5-2. Victory by Committee If anything can be dubbed vintage so early in a season, this game could. It was yet another victory by committee, as four Yankees combined on a six-hitter. Advertisement Greg Cadaret, either auditioning for a starting job on a permanent basis or merely holding the fort until Scott Kamieniecki arrives from an extended spring training, pitched a more than passable six innings, allowing the two Blue Jay runs. Then came the stingy guys, a.k.a. the Yankees' relief corps. Rich Monteleone, Steve Howe (1-0) and Steve Farr (save No. 2) combined for three scoreless innings in an impressive continuation of what happens when a Yankee reliever takes the mound. Advertisement The bullpen is now 2-0 with four saves in four opportunities. What they have brought to the team as a whole and the starters in particular cannot be measured just in numbers. "Our starters know that if they're out there in the seventh inning and they get into a little jam, they can really bear down and give it all they've got because they don't have to worry about the late innings," said Mark Conner, the Yankee pitching coach. "They know that help is on the way." Spreading the Burden So the Yankees are enjoying a double luxury. With their bullpen functioning so well, they can continue to bring their starters along, not forcing complete games because they are not needed at this early point in the season. And because the bullpen is so deep and, at this point, untouchable, Mamager Buck Showalter isn't dependent on any one guy.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. For instance, the team did not want to use John Habyan tonight because he had pitched in three games. So Monteleone became a prime candidate. "Mark told me tonight that I'd have to prepare for anything -- 'Early we'll use you, late we'll use you,' " Monteleone said. "It builds confidence in a pitcher to know that a manager will look to you in that fashion. It builds confidence in a manager to know that you, as a pitcher, can do your job." Monteleone did, pitching a scoreless seventh. Some wildness nearly cost him in the eighth, but he, too, benefited from a little help from a friend. That friend was Howe, who took over after Monteleone loaded the bases with two outs in the eighth inning (a single to Manny Lee, an intentional walk to Roberto Alomar and a walk to Dave Winfield). Howe put the Jays down quickly, inducing John Olerud to ground back to the mound. How long the pitchers will enjoy their success, carrying the rest of the team blithely along with them, remains to be seen. Showalter, a low-key manager, refuses to get overly excited or get in the faces of any prognosticators who saw only a very long, unproductive season for his pitchers. His staff is picking up on his cue. "We haven't proved anything, yet," said Cadaret. "It's only one time through the rotation." That the pitching, from starters and relievers alike, has been excellent against Boston, Detroit and now Toronto -- mighty offenses all -- still cannot be overlooked. So pardon the Yankees -- the first-place Yankees -- if they savor this all just a little, even though it's just one full week into the season. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 14, 1992, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; A Wronged Staff Shows It Has the Right Stuff.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »