Advertisement By RICHARD SANDOMIR The Masters can be a potboiler or a yawner, but no one should miss the end-of-tournament ceremony awarding the green jacket to the winner. It's like a fashion show in a pro shop, simultaneously amusing and awkward. So there on Sunday was Ian Woosnam, the defending champion, in his canary yellow pants and green jacket. There was the Masters chief, Jack Stephens, wearing his green blazer, which begged for a tailor. Then came the awarding of the jacket to Fred Couples. The Masters' masters don't know in advance who will win, but Couples has an average physique, unlike, say, Craig Stadler. Weren't there some generic-sized jackets in the clubhouse? The Augustan masters must have said: "We're paying him $270,000. Who cares if the jacket's skimpy." And sure enough, the sleeves were more than a tad short for Couples. "A perfect fit," said Jim Nantz, the CBS host and Couples's college pal, who must have been talking about his own impeccable tailoring. "Well," said Couples, with a shrug, looking momentarily like a 13-year-old bar mitzvah boy trying on his first adult suit. Advertisement Actually, there was something slightly ill-fitting about the CBS telecast on Sunday. Perhaps it is time for CBS to recognize that Ken Venturi, as the analyst at the 18th hole, brings Pat Summerall down. Venturi is knowledgeable, but he lacks fire and verbal distinction. He doesn't elevate Summerall's game as John Madden does in football. Venturi also suffers from comparisons with Johnny Miller, his opposite number at NBC, who is blunt and controversial. Advertisement Gary McCord, moved from his perch last year at the 11th and 12th holes to the 17th, was witty and savvy, but seemed constrained, as if he had been poured into Woosnam's wee jacket. He is a worthy successor to Venturi, and would rouse Summerall, whose deft teamwork with Madden portends how ably he would manage McCord's irreverence. McCord engages viewers with remarks like, "I'd need asbestos gloves now, the way I'd be sweating" when commenting on Couples's gloveless putting, or, "Huge gallery here . . . deathly quiet . . . you can hear a lung collapse." Venturi delivers conventional analysis the golf establishment can live with contentedly, as opposed to the enemies Miller has made with his rapier tongue. But McCord doesn't deliver venom, just passionate, informed showmanship. It is not the CBS modus operandi to clutter the Masters course with on-site reporters, but one was surely needed during the 10 minutes and 50 seconds it took Craig Parry to find and position his errant ball on the 18th, which delayed Couples's final putt to win the championship. The delay would have been made more tolerable by a reporter tracking Parry and perhaps talking to some of the gallery members who were shifted about to accommodate Parry.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In preliminary overnight ratings, the Sunday broadcast posted a 9.3 rating, the same as last year, and the Saturday broadcast, with a nearly three-hour rain delay, got a 5.0 rating, down 15 percent from a year ago. Dishing Out Honesty George Foreman's bloody victory over Alex Stewart Saturday night on HBO was an exercise in brutal announcer candor. Jim Lampley, Gil Clancy and Larry Merchant all took turns dishing out the honesty. Clancy beat the drum on Stewart's refusal to capitalize when he had hurt Foreman. Lampley, noting that Foreman is a friend and colleague, said: "Now more than ever, Foreman looks like an old man in trouble." Added Clancy: "That was a big step behind for George Foreman." Advertisement Merchant chased Foreman around the verbal ring after the fight to get an answer as to whether Foreman would now retire. But Merchant didn't get Foreman to commit to more than saying his wife would "kick my tail when I get home." Watching Foreman emerge bloody and puffy did not move Seth Abraham, the president of Time Warner Sports, the parent company of HBO, to suggest that Foreman go back to full-time eating. "George will know when it's time to retire," said Abraham, who added, "We're advised that he'll take the summer off and come back." Whether he pounds opponents in two rounds or goes the bloody distance, he's a viewer magnet. "Would I buy every Foreman fight?" said Abraham. "If he starts coming in unprepared and is in it for the paycheck, I'd look at it in a different prism. There's business and there's competitiveness." One hopes that Foreman and HBO truly note the distinction. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 14, 1992, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: TV SPORTS; Mesh of Announcers Detracts From the Masters.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »