Advertisement By CLIFTON BROWN and  It all ended today for the Knicks -- their championship dreams, their memorable seven-game series with the Chicago Bulls, and their season. The Knicks were unable to survive the wizardry of Michael Jordan and the determination of the Bulls, a championship team that responded with passion when its title was threatened. Scoring 42 points on 15-for-29 shooting from the field, Jordan willed the Bulls to a convincing 110-81 victory over New York in the decisive Game 7 of their Eastern Conference semifinal playoff series. The Bulls advance to the conference finals, where they will meet Cleveland in a four-of-seven-game series beginning at Chicago Stadium Tuesday night. As for the Knicks, they came closer to eliminating the Bulls than almost anyone expected. And though they lost this series, they did not lose their pride. "I am proud of how we went through the playoffs," said Pat Riley, whose leadership put an indelible imprint on the Knicks in his first season as their coach. "I wasn't prepared for this kind of ending. But I don't want them hanging their heads, as it is a tribute to us that we took the world champions to the hilt. Advertisement "I congratulate the Bulls. I still think they are a team that will wear the crown. This was their day. They played big-time and their defense was extraordinary." Advertisement No one was more extraordinary than Jordan, who showed why he is the master of his game. If Jordan was going down, he was going down without any bullets left in his gun belt. He showed New York the whole package of spin moves, double-pump shots and levitating acrobatic drives. The Knicks were left reeling, and finally beaten. Jordan approached the game like a heavyweight boxer seeking a first-round knockout. He scored 18 points in the first quarter, 29 points in the first half. The Bulls' early offensive game plan was simple: get the ball to Michael, and get the heck out of his way. Jordan was playing at a different level than anyone else, making jumpers, spinning left and right on driving moves like a ballet dancer and making the Knicks' heads spin. There was simply no stopping him. "This series might give us the hunger like we had last year," Jordan said. "New York deserves credit. They woke us up. We felt the pressure. This experience hardened us for the next series. We walked into the series thinking it would be a sweep, but it went seven." Jordan didn't need much help the way he played, but he got it. Scottie Pippen, playing more like an All-Star than at any time in this series, finished with a triple-double: 17 points, 11 rebounds and 11 assists. Horace Grant (14 points) and B. J. Armstrong (12) also reached double figures in scoring, and the Bulls shot 58.1 percent from the field. The Bulls broke the 100-point barrier for the first time in the series, and that was more than enough to break the Knicks' backs. Jordan drove into the teeth of New York's defense, creating openings not only for himself, but for his teammates. And Chicago's defense smothered the Knicks, forcing 17 turnovers and erratic shooting (37.8 percent) that led to a succession of fast breaks by the Bulls. "It was a combination of too much Michael Jordan and our getting cold," said Knicks guard Mark Jackson. "Today, Michael Jordan took over the game. Then they as a team responded when they had to."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Knicks tried to respond, but succumbed to Chicago's relentless offensive and defensive pressure. Patrick Ewing (22 points, 8 rebounds) who has still never played in a conference championship series, played 40 minutes despite a sprained left ankle. But Ewing was not 100 percent, and foul trouble in the second half limited him even more. "My ankle was fine the whole game," said Ewing, not wanting to make excuses. "Chicago just outplayed us. We played as hard as we could and have nothing to be ashamed of. We need a few more additions to go all the way next year. I feel we are just a couple of players away." An 11-4 Run Is Final Nail Advertisement New York never led in the second half, and the game's final turning point came with 9 minutes left in the third quarter, after the Knicks had closed to within 3 at 60-57. Chicago responded with an 11-4 run to take a 70-61 lead, and Ewing committed his third and fourth fouls, forcing Riley to bench him for two and a half minutes. Ewing re-entered the game with New York trailing by 11, but the way Jordan and the Bulls were playing, the Knicks had virtually no hope of coming back. Chicago took a 79-64 lead into the final period, and a 10-4 Chicago run at the start of the fourth quarter turned the game into a rout. "When Patrick went out with foul trouble, I think maybe he felt, and our players felt, that it wasn't meant to be," Riley said. Gerald Wilkins, who spent much of the game trying to defend Jordan, complained that both he and John Starks (18 points) were not allowed to play Jordan as physically in this game as they were earlier in the series. Jordan made 12 of 13 free throws. "When we're allowed to play our game, we can take anybody, including the Bulls," Wilkins said. "They were calling them close and quick. When they're doing that, it's hard to get a feel for him. I think the refs were listening to the image the Bulls had created. But I'm not whining. We played the world champs, they won, and you can't take anything away from them." The Knicks tried to take a championship from the Bulls, but they couldn't. So while the Knicks will not win a championship this year, they won Chicago's respect. They will have to settle for that. "It's tough," Starks said. "All we can do now is work harder all summer to get a little bit better." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 18, 1992, on Page C00001 of the National edition with the headline: BASKETBALL; Bulls Plug In Offense and Disconnect the Knicks.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »