Advertisement BY TIMOTHY W. SMITH and  Eliminating the jitters is not part of the Jets' preparation for Sunday's game against the Houston Oilers at the Meadowlands. Nervousness would be a natural response, considering the Jets are face-to-face with a loaded run-and-shoot offense that has been firing from both barrels this season. The Jets aren't nervous because they know exactly what Houston is going to do and they stopped the Oilers last year. The trick will be stopping them again. "We know it's a dangerous thing," said Jets Coach Bruce Coslet. "It's a wide-open offense. It's kind of like the Bears' defense. It's lost some of its unexpectedness, for lack of a better word. People are used to defensing it. It's not a big deal. We know how to go about it. We know how to identify who they are and where they are and play ball." Coslet has a working knowledge of the Oilers' offense because he studied the run-and-shoot offense last year, thinking that he might want to install it for the Jets. He decided against it, because it didn't fit his personnel. But he gained some valuable insight. A Better Understanding Advertisement "I knew if we knew what the run-and-shoot was all about, we could help our defense practice against it," Coslet said. "We decided not to do it. But we know a little bit more about it, technically, as coaches. Advertisement "We know some of their reads. But you never know when they're going to throw that specific pattern, so you have to play ball. You can't just hang your hat on knowing what they're supposed to do. Sometimes they do what they're not supposed to do and they'll get you that way." Whether Coslet's study of run-and-shoot theory proves helpful won't be determined until after Sunday's game. But the Jets do have recent history on their side. They defeated the Oilers, 17-12, last season at the Astrodome in a game that turned on big plays, and not the massive statistics of Houston quarterback Warren Moon, who completed 30 of 43 passes for 381 yards. Defensive end Darrell Davis sacked Moon in the end zone. Moon fumbled the ball, and Davis recovered for the winning touchdown. Last season, Moon was out of this world, throwing for 4,689 yards and 33 touchdowns. This year he has come down to earth, but the ground attack has given the Houston's run-and-shoot more firepower. Running back Allen Pinkett rushed for more than 100 yards in Houston's first two games. A Record That Points to Success The net result of the balanced attack is that Houston has a 4-1 record and is leading the American Football Conference in scoring with an average of 31.2 points per game.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Moon is not complaining about the dip in his personal statistics. "Last year I had a few more yards than I do now," Moon said. "But we didn't have the same record as we do now. I'd exchange records for stats anytime." Free safety Lonnie Young said Moon is still a dangerous quarterback operating in an equally treacherous offense. "He's so experienced that you can't really confuse him by disguising your defenses," Young said. "You just have to line up and outplay your man." In simple theory, Houston's run-and-shoot offense features four wide receivers, who flood the field and spread out the defense, and a lone running back. Most teams counter with five or more defensive backs. The offense's running game works off the pass, and the spread-out formation gives the rushers more lanes. Advertisement Pete Carroll, the Jets' defensive coordinator, said all of the defensive backs will play extensively against the Oilers, a move that means an enhanced role for free safety Erik McMillan, who was replaced as the starter this season by Young and has primarily played on special teams. The Jets played soft pass coverage on the Oilers last year, allowing them to complete passes underneath but refusing to yield a big-strike touchdown. Houston scored on two field goals by Teddy Garcia and a 9-yard touchdown reception by receiver Haywood Jeffires. Carroll said that the Jets will not attack Houston with the same strategy as they did last season. "We have to do things differently this year," Carroll said. "We're going to mix some things up more. They're an explosive team and you have to make them work for their scores. That's hard to do because they have such good players. They can strike at any time." EXTRA POINTS PAT LEAHY replaced IAN HOWFIELD as the Jets' kicker 18 years ago. This Sunday, Leahy will square off against Ian's son, BOBBY HOWFIELD, who is the kicker for Houston. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 11, 1991, on Page B00010 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL; Jets Won't Run and Hide From the Run-and-Shoot.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »