Advertisement By BARBARA LLOYD and  Italy's greatest fear in challenging for the America's Cup that its United States opponent might have a truly faster boat looked like a vision come true today in this first match of the cup defense. America3 defeated Il Moro de Venezia by 30 seconds. After losing the start, Il Moro was unable to rally in the ensuing 20 miles of racing. The victory by America3 gave Bill Koch's team a 1-0 record in the best-four-of-seven race series. America3 is defending the 141-year-old America's Cup on behalf of the San Diego Yacht Club. "Downwind we went beautifully against her, which is what we expected," Koch said after the race. "What we're really pleased about is that upwind, we were at least even, and sometimes we'd shoot out a bit." More than 500 spectator boats jammed the race course off Point Loma despite chilly temperatures and overcast skies. Officials postponed the noon match for 15 minutes to give the Coast Guard time to clear the course. The winds were brisk at 12 knots from the south and climbing. Advertisement Il Moro had a disastrous beginning. As the red-hulled yacht moved down the start line seconds before the gun went off, the boat's bow penetrated the invisible barrier that marks the 400-foot line. It meant that Il Moro had crossed too early, a fatal mistake in match racing. Advertisement Paul Cayard, Italy's skipper, was forced to recross the line, a maneuver that gave America3 a 30-second lead, the same time by which Italy ended up losing the race. In terms of a psychological edge for America3, it was like hitting a home run in the first inning of the first game of the World Series. After that, the going was tough for Il Moro against America3, which is the same boat which caused Dennis Conner's demise in the defenders' final. While Koch does not have Cayard's reputation as a fighter, Koch could end up winning this war with a better weapon America3. It may have been America3's kind of wind today -- a steady 10-to-14-knot breeze. Or it may be that America3 proves to be a faster boat throughout the series. But the Koch yacht seemed to gallop today compared to Il Moro's trot in nearly every stage of the eight-leg course. By losing the start, the Italians lost the opportunity to pick wind shifts because America3 was in control. A bad start also tends to affect a crew's self-confidence. The Il Moro team fell short of the peak performance it displayed two weeks ago in defeating New Zealand in the challengers' finals. In the first leg today, the Il Moro crew wrestled with a snagged jib sheet, and later with retrieving a spinnaker that spilled into the water as the 75-foot yacht rounded the second mark.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The America3 crew made few mistakes. Koch, however, was hit in the head, apparently by the boom, as America3 rounded the second mark. Buddy Melges, his alternate helmsman, was steering. The 52-year-old Koch looked dazed, stumbling for a few seconds as he turned to grind the deck winch. But as the race proceeded, Koch regained his composure. After the match, he complained of a "splitting headache." The prowess of America3 showed up in the first leg when Cayard failed to take advantage of the American boat by either straightline speed or a tacking duel. By the third mark the lead time had grown to 52 seconds. Il Moro made its best gain in the seventh leg, catching up to within 35 seconds of America3. But the Koch team hung on, covering Il Moro as the Italian yacht struggled unsuccessfully to pass. Advertisement Cayard had an inkling this week about America3. "I think the speed of the America3 boat is something to be respected," Cayard said. "I think it's going to be a fast boat, but nothing worries me. I'm going to be going at it 110 percent." Koch's designers changed the underbody of America3 for this round, replacing its carbon fiber blade and ballast blade with a smaller, lighter bulb and stiffer keel blade, one made of steel. The change was expected to make the yacht better in light winds, because of its redistributed weight, and faster in heavier winds, becuase of less flex in the stronger keel blade. America3 and the Il Moro syndicate won the right to sail for the America's Cup by winning four months of trial races: Il Moro in the Louis Vuitton challengers' final and America3 in the defenders' trials. Despite America3's command performance today, it is too early to predict the outcome of this series. The lesson learned from New Zealand, which tumbled from a 4-1 lead to a 3-5 loss to Italy in the challengers' final, has rung loud and clear in this bell tower of the America's Cup. No one has heeded the warning better than Koch, who is 20 years older than Cayard but years younger in experience. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 10, 1992, on Page 8008008 of the National edition with the headline: YACHT RACING; America   Defeats Il Moro In Cup.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »