Advertisement By JACK CURRY Baseball Commissioner Fay Vincent said yesterday that he expected George Steinbrenner to soon clear away two lawsuits related to his banishment from baseball, opening the way for negotiations to begin over Steinbrenner's return as head of the Yankees. Vincent said yesterday it was his understanding that Steinbrenner was moving toward seeing that the lawsuits were dropped. While Vincent has said repeatedly that there would be no negotiations until the suits were dropped, his comments yesterday were the first sign that Steinbrenner was moving to do so. If Steinbrenner doesn't act by today, the move is expected before the middle of next week because he is anxious to return to his previous job as managing general partner and because the limited partners hope their interim choice, Daniel McCarthy, does not have to serve in the position too long. "I believe he is proceeding toward dropping the lawsuits," said Vincent in a telephone interview from his Connecticut home yesterday. "Until the lawsuits go away, everything else is just speculation." Advertisement Vincent said he would be ready to to talk with Steinbrenner once Leonard Kleinman, the Yankees' chief operating officer, drops his $30 million suit against baseball and Steinbrenner renounces his lawsuit against a transcription company. Advertisement Although Steinbrenner has been quoted in some news reports as saying that negotiations with the commissioner have been going well, there have been no negotiations between Vincent and Steinbrenner, Vincent said. The two have had telephone conversations regarding the status of the lawsuits, but have not broached the topic of Steinbrenner's reinstatement. Several attempts to reach Steinbrenner for comment were unsuccessful. Assuming the lawsuits are dropped, Vincent and Steinbrenner would have to talk about alternatives to the agreement they made in July 1990. At that time, Steinbrenner agreed to being banned from the day-to-day operations of the Yankees because Vincent determined that he did not act in the best interests of baseball when he paid $40,000 to Howard Spira, an admitted gambler and now a convicted extortionist. Steinbrenner must prove to Vincent that there is a reason for the original agreement to be modified. When Steinbrenner met with Vincent and settled on the permanent ban, he did not seem to have a proposal or lucid alternatives. It is not known what Steinbrenner plans to present to Vincent eventually, but the commissioner has been considering several ideas. "I've thought about it," said Vincent, when asked what alternative he might introduce to Steinbrenner. "But I don't have anything I want to spell out now."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Vincent's initial punishment of Steinbrenner was a two-year suspension and three years of probation, but the owner thought that being suspended would hurt his standing with the United States Olympic Committee. Instead, he agreed to a sterner lifetime sentence that omitted the negative word. But Steinbrenner is inching his way back into the picture, and disposing of the lawsuits is the only way he will be allowed to have serious discussions with Vincent. Steinbrenner has been holding the lawsuits up as bargaining chips and there has been speculation he might try to sue baseball again, but Vincent has remained adamant about delaying discussions until the suits are dropped. Any decision by Steinbrenner to remove the lawsuits will likely include a deal with Kleinman, who has insisted that he wants to pursue his case against baseball. Kleinman's suit contends that he was unfairly denied a chance to take over as managing general partner when Steinbrenner agreed to step down. Vincent said he hopes that the negotiations between him and Steinbrenner will be one on one, without their armies of lawyers. Advertisement That the limited partners chose the 67-year-old McCarthy as an interim replacement for Robert Nederlander is further indication that they expect Steinbrenner will seek to return soon -- so soon in fact that McCarthy might not go through the approval process. If McCarthy does go through the process, approval is far from assured. Vincent is concerned over the fact that McCarthy sued the commissioner on Steinbrenner's behalf in 1990 -- a suit he dropped last month -- and the fact that he does not live in the New York. McCarthy needs the approval of Vincent and the league's eight-member ownership committee. He would need the approval of 10 of the other 13 American League owners and 7 of the 12 National League owners. Vincent has never met McCarthy, and Fred Kuhlman, the president of the St. Louis Cardinals, who heads the ownership committee, said he did not know McCarthy. It is obvious that McCarthy, Steinbrenner's tax attorney and close friend for more than two decades, is simply keeping the managing partner's chair warm while Steinbrenner attempts to return. Kuhlman said the implications of McCarthy having sued Vincent would be studied. "We can't ignore that," Kuhlman said. "It's a factor we have to take into account. It doesn't rule him out, but it is something we have to look into." INSIDE PITCH With GEORGE STEINBRENNER poised to continue his march back to the Bronx and an interim managing partner in place, the Yankees are on the verge of one of their busiest stretches in some time. General Manager GENE MICHAEL, who has been unable to make trades because of the chaotic situation with the club hierarchy, now has a managing partner to deal with and his top priority is still trading veteran second baseman STEVE SAX. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 2, 1992, on Page B00007 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Vincent Expects Steinbrenner Will End Suits.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »