Advertisement By PHIL BERGER and  They played office politics and they played basketball at Byrne Meadowlands Arena tonight. Surprisingly, the Nets shone in the sporting event, beating the Cleveland Cavaliers, 102-93. New Jersey did a late Nets-like fade but still managed to win. Ahead by as many as 22 points in the final quarter, the Nets were still ahead by 16 points, 93-77, with 4 minutes 8 seconds left. That's when Cleveland went on a tear and cut the lead to 7 points, 96-89, with 1:31 to go. But layups by Mookie Blaylock, Derrick Coleman and Terry Mills kept the Nets from adding another sorry twist to what had been a chaotic day of rumor and repudiation, a day that left folks wondering just who's running things in the Nets' front office. Early in the day, Art Kaminsky, agent for Jim Valvano, the former North Carolina State coach, said that Joe Taub, the Nets' minority owner, had been discussing with him the possibility that Valvano would replace Bill Fitch, the New Jersey coach. Advertisement As the rumors of a coaching change circulated, Nets spokesmen shrugged when asked about the team's state of affairs, leaving the impression that the chain of command was breaking. Half an hour before the game, Alan L. Aufzien, the Nets' chairman, and Willis Reed, the general manager, convened a news conference to disassociate themselves from Taub's actions. But their comments about Taub's moves -- and their own reaction to them -- were hardly reassuring.  Barbs From the Fans Advertisement The events of the day did not escape the notice of the few rows of fans impersonating a crowd. They made the is-he, isn't-he Nets' coach, Fitch -- and to a lesser extent, the team's soft-core pivotman, Sam Bowie -- the target of their best witticisms.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Hey, Fitch. Where's Valvano?" "Hey, Fitch. When you go, take Bowie with you." And so forth. On the floor, the Nets were acting less like the hapless Nets through the first half. Behind Coleman, who had 9 points after the first two quarters, New Jersey took a 46-40 halftime lead. Coleman led in the team huddles too. When Drazen Petrovic, a shooting guard, failed to get a shot off before the first-quarter buzzer because of his inattentiveness to the clock, Coleman said, "Man, where's your head at?" "Who?" said Petrovic. "You," said Coleman. As it turned out, Coleman (22 points) and Petrovic (20) were New Jersey's high scorers. Fitch? "I enjoyed the win," he said As for the office politics, the Nets' coach said, "I haven't had any other problem except Joe Taub wants somebody else to coach his basketball team." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 19, 1991, on Page B00028 of the National edition with the headline: BASKETBALL; At Least on the Court, Fitch Has a Good Day.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »