Advertisement By JORGE ARANGURE Jr.MAY 31, 2014
 Shortly after Masahiro Tanaka signed a seven-year, $155 million contract in January, Yankees General Manager Brian Cashman said in a radio interview that Tanaka, a 25-year-old pitcher, had a ceiling as a No. 3 starter. The comment seemed an obvious attempt by Cashman to play down expectations. After all, the Yankees had the reliable C. C. Sabathia and the veteran Hiroki Kuroda ahead of Tanaka in the rotation. It was no slight to be considered third behind that respected duo. Yet as the season has unfolded, Tanaka has become the Yankees’ most reliable starter and, in effect, their ace. The Yankees, with a record hovering around .500, are a formidable team whenever he takes the mound. On Saturday, Tanaka allowed one unearned run in eight innings in the Yankees’ 3-1 win against the Minnesota Twins at Yankee Stadium. Tanaka, however, appears comfortable in his rotation spot. “I don’t feel that I’m the ace,” he said through an interpreter. Advertisement His teammates disagree. “He’s at the top,” said catcher Brian McCann, whose eighth-inning double drove in Jacoby Ellsbury and broke a 1-1 tie. “He’s a top-of-the-rotation starter. I don’t think anyone is going to go around and say he’s an ace here or an ace there. He takes the ball every fifth day. He continues to impress everyone around here.” Advertisement Closer David Robertson pitched a scoreless ninth inning for his 12th save of the season. Tanaka, who improved to 8-1 and lowered his earned run average to 2.06, kept the Yankees in the game while their suddenly slumping offense mustered only one run against Twins starter Kevin Correia. The Yankees have three prominent Japanese players, led by Masahiro Tanaka, who is creating a stir in his first year in the majors. As a result, a large Japanese media contingent is often present. Correia entered Saturday’s game with the second-highest E.R.A. among qualifying starters in the major leagues. On Friday night, the Yankees scored one run in six innings against Ricky Nolasco, who entered that game with the third-highest E.R.A. among qualifying starters. The Yankees threatened early on Saturday, loading the bases with no outs in the first and putting two runners on with one out in the second. But Correia escaped by inducing an inning-ending double play each time. Yangervis Solarte put the Yankees on the scoreboard in the fourth with a solo home run off Correia, who allowed nine hits over six innings. The Yankees’ offense may continue to struggle because Mark Teixeira will be out for at least the next two games. Teixeira left Saturday’s game in the sixth inning with soreness in his surgically repaired right wrist. Teixeira missed three consecutive games last week with wrist soreness and inflammation, but he played in Friday’s 6-1 loss to the Twins. Teixeira said he felt pain in the wrist Saturday morning and felt more discomfort after grounding out in the third inning. Manager Joe Girardi asked Teixeira to play defense in the fourth and fifth innings and pulled him for a pinch-hitter in the sixth. Teixeira, who played only 15 games last season while recovering from wrist surgery, had a cortisone shot for the first time this season after Saturday’s game. Advertisement “We tried the rest, and four days didn’t help,” Teixeira said. “That’s why the shot is the next best thing.” He added, “If the shot doesn’t work, then I’m worried.” This season, Teixeira leads the Yankees with nine home runs and a .477 slugging percentage. The fear is that Teixeira’s injury could linger all season, as the one last year did. For now, Girardi said the team was not seriously considering outside options, one of which could be signing the free agent Kendrys Morales. “I feel he’s going to be healthy, but right now he’s got inflammation,” Girardi said. Girardi also announced after the game that pitcher Michael Pineda, who was placed on the disabled list May 6, experienced pain in his right shoulder while throwing on Friday as part of his rehabilitation. A magnetic resonance imaging test Saturday revealed inflammation in the shoulder. He will be shut down indefinitely.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Pineda missed the past two seasons after shoulder surgery, but Girardi said he did not think this setback was as severe. “I believe he’ll get healthy and be extremely productive for us,” Girardi said. With Pineda, Sabathia and Ivan Nova on the disabled list, and with Kuroda enduring his worst season so far, the Yankees have relied heavily on Tanaka to keep them afloat. The lone run he allowed came on a single by Josh Willingham in the first that scored Brian Dozier, who had reached on an error by third baseman Kelly Johnson. This season, Tanaka has struck out 88 batters in 782/3 innings, which equates to a higher strikeout rate than he had in his undefeated regular season in Japan last year (183 strikeouts in 212 innings). “I feel that this is probably that the guys haven’t seen me,” Tanaka said. So while Tanaka continues to play down his success, his numbers are proving that he is the Yankees’ ace. INSIDE PITCH Carlos Beltran, on the disabled list with a bone spur in his right elbow, took batting practice Saturday. He was expected to take batting practice again Sunday and could soon be sent on a rehabilitation assignment. Reliever Shawn Kelley, on the disabled list with a strained lumbar spine, played catch and was expected to throw a bullpen session Sunday. A version of this article appears in print on June 1, 2014, on Page SP3 of the New York edition with the headline: After Tanaka’s Eighth Victory, Most See Him as an Ace. He Doesn’t.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »