Advertisement By JOE SEXTON and  It wasn't a genuine diamond, but it was priceless all the same, that plot of protected green adjacent to the Marlboro Houses projects in Brooklyn. "There was always evidence of our crimes," John Franco said of the private patch of grass the neighborhood kids would sneak onto to play baseball. "The spots were worn pretty bare at all the bases." The police, then, would come at a sprint, again and again, out of center field, summonses in hand. The kids would scatter, losing themselves in the streets of Bensonhurst or in one of the artless projects buildings. "It would cost you $20 a pop if you got caught," said Franco, the left-handed closer for the Mets. "And it never paid to be the center fielder. He always had the longest run." Advertisement The ascent to the major leagues for a child of New York City has lately been one of the more improbable climbs. The availability of playing fields is limited, the quality of those that exist is marginal. Cold and snow complicates development and can crush desire. Scouts are afraid to go to certain neighborhoods. Basketball, as a result, has been the city's game, accessible and spectacular, embraced by children, poets and city administration budget officials. Not So Wild a Dream Advertisement "To play baseball in the major legues, it seemed far-fetched as a kid," said Willie Randolph, the second baseman who was raised in Brooklyn and who has played 15 seasons in the majors. "The sport was the stepsister in the city. But I dreamed of doing it, and I believed the dream was real. In retrospect, I guess it was, though, a long-shot dream." The chances, then, couldn't have been great for the Mets to wind up with four New York City products on their roster this spring. But that is what they have in Franco, Randolph, outfielder Bobby Bonilla and shortstop Kevin Baez. Throw in outfielder Dave Gallagher of Trenton, N.J., and left-hander Paul Gibson of Center Moriches, L.I., and the Mets have six players from the greater metropolitan area. The contingent represents a cross-section of generations, as well. Franco, 31 years old, had looked to Randolph, 37, as inspiration, and Baez, 25, had looked to Franco for the same years later. "What's the quality city players share?" Bonilla, born and raised in the Bronx, asked. "That we got out. To get out was what it was about." Loneliness, Anger, Love Playing baseball in the city was about a lot of things, about determination, about loneliness, about anger, about love. "I scrounged," said Randolph, who played baseball at Tilden High School in Brooklyn. "I had the same glove for five years, so I definitely wasn't styling. We did our own groundskeeping, too, clearing rocks, whisky bottles. The Parade Grounds near Propsect Park was heaven to me. The thing is, we made sure we found a game, found the game."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Then there was the matter of others discovering their games, their talents. Baez, who went to Lafayette High School in Brooklyn and who could stick with the Mets in 1992 as a backup shortstop, said the attendance at city games by scouts has improved. But Franco and Randolph remember the desperation that came with feeling ignored as prospects. "If scouts showed up, you'd play in anything -- rainstorms, snowstorms," said Franco. "Playing in the snow, actually, wasn't bad if you were pitching that day. It was hard to see the ball until it made a noise in the catcher's glove." Not Tapping Inner-City Talent "More often than not, the only ones you wound up trying to impress at those games were your girlfriends," said Randolph. "I don't think clubs have ever decided to fully tap into the inner-city talent. I know they were afraid to come see me play." Advertisement "The baseball played in the New York area," said Gibson, "is more overlooked than undertalented." One of the chief talents of the corps of city players appears to be their feel for clubhouse chemistry. Reflecting the ethnic mosaic the politicians speak of, Franco (Italian ancestry), Randolph (black), Bonilla (Hispanic ancestry), the three bring an individual as well as a collective dynamism to the ball park everyday. Randolph's professionalism is respected. Franco's fearless sarcasm is enjoyed. The $29 million Bonilla's everyday gregariousness is appreciated. Ethnicity can be poked fun at; the size of contracts can be rendered irrelevant. And so Randolph's wink across the clubhouse as Franco blasts Frank Sinatra on the stereo strikes one as somehow a gesture more comfortably meaningful than most. 'Chain Wasn't Easy to Climb' "We feel a certain bond, I think," said Randolph. "We know we played good baseball, and that the chain wasn't easy to climb." "It's why we all go back to where we come from as much as we do," said Franco. "It's to keep it all fresh in your mind." And to Manager Jeff Torborg's mind, the presence of a rare percentage of city players, one brought about more by accident than design, can pay fresh dividends for the Mets. "Their evident hunger can't hurt," said Torborg. "They want to play. You definitely know that much about them." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 26, 1992, on Page B00017 of the National edition with the headline: Baseball; Sidewalks of New York Sprout Diamonds.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »