Advertisement By SAMUEL ABT and  Home is where the heart is, but not for Dirk De Wolf, not at Tour de France time. "The Tour de France is all the best riders in the world," said De Wolf, who is pleased to have been enrolled in that club by virtue of his victory in the prestigious Liege-Bastogne-Liege race this spring. "No rider likes to have to stay at home during the Tour." Nevertheless home in Belgium is just where De Wolf fears he may be when 22 teams of 9 riders each set off on the three-week, 3,983-kilometer (2,490-mile) Tour de France on Saturday. "I'm exhausted, I'm riding very badly," the 31-year-old De Wolf said this week by phone from the Tour of Switzerland, which should have been a tune-up instead of an ordeal. "My condition is not so good and if it doesn't get better, the Tour will not be possible. You don't do that race at 70 percent of your best condition."  Better in One-Day Events His apprehension is justified. Although he ranks 39th in the computerized standings of the world's professional racers, he has never finished higher than 64th, in 1986, in the Tour de France. Advertisement One reason is that his talents are better suited to one-day classics than to long stage races. Another is that he has never been a leader able to choose his races but a support rider thrust into battle wherever and whenever team strategy dictates. Advertisement So it's been a busy year for De Wolf, who rides for the Gatorade team from Italy. "Seventy, maybe more, days of racing already" since the season opened in February, he said. First came the minor winter stage races, then the spring classics, then the 10-day Tour Du Pont in the United States, then the three-week Giro d'Italia and finally the 10-day Tour of Switzerland. The Giro, which ranks as the next-toughest race after the Tour de France, was the crusher and De Wolf had to drop out on the 15th stage. "Too much,"  Considers Indurain the Favorite That was why he tentatively put Miguel Indurain, the winner of the Giro and the defending champion in the Tour, at the top of his list of favorites for the coming race. The 79th edition of the Tour, the world's oldest, richest and most demanding multiday bicycle race, is expected to be especially difficult. Geography is a big factor. The Tour will start in San Sebastian, Spain, and visit France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, Luxembourg and Italy before it definitively reenters France on July 19, heading into the Alps and its finish in Paris on July 26. Although the modern Tour frequently starts outside France, no previous race has visited even half as many of France's neighbors. The multinational route was chosen to celebrate the European Community's plan to open its frontiers to the free circulation of goods, services and people at the end of 1992.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. No political visionary, De Wolf wishes the community had waited another decade or two. "All those countries will make this a very difficult Tour," he judged. "Riders from each country will be fighting to win at home. There won't be any easy days. It's no place for somebody off form like me."  First in Italythe Giro Somebody definitely on form is Indurain, a Spaniard who rides for the Banesto team from his homeland. He romped through the Giro and emerged so easy a winner that he won the final day's long time trial by nearly three minutes over the rest of the field. "He's a very good rider, that we already knew from last year's Tour," De Wolf said. "Now in the Giro he was the best of everybody by a lot." But, for all its difficulties, the Giro is not the Tour de France, the Belgian continued. Advertisement "In the Giro, you had some of the best riders but the Tour is all the best riders. Bugno was not in the Giro, LeMond, Breukink were not either. They will all be in the Tour. "The Tour is much harder," he added. "You can't imagine how much concentration is needed, day after day for three weeks. In the Giro you can make a mistake and still win. In the Tour, one bad day and you're finished. Too many great riders are waiting for you to have that one bad day." So, in no particular order, De Wolf added Greg LeMond, Gianni Bugno and Erik Breukink to his list of favorites. LeMond, an American with the Z team from France, has won the Tour three times but finished seventh last year; Bugno, an Italian with Gatorade and the current professional road race champion, was third and second in the last two Tours, and Breukink, a Dutchman with PDM from the Netherlands, is a perennial challenger. "Maybe Chiappucci, too, and Fignon is possible," De Wolf said. Claudio Chiappucci, an Italian with Carrera from Italy, was second and third in the last two Tours and second to Indurain in this year's Giro. Laurent Fignon, a Frenchman with Gatorade, won the Tour in 1983 and 1984 and was sixth last year. "I hope Bugno, of course," De Wolf said of his team leader. "His form is very good." He paused in the phone conversation. "LeMond's form is good, too," he said mournfully. "Chiappucci's condition is good, Breukink's condition is good. Only me. My condition is not good." "Even if it was," De Wolf admitted, "I could never win the Tour de France. I can't climb or time trial with the best even if I have good condition." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 29, 1992, on Page C00004 of the National edition with the headline: CYCLING; A True (Seven-Country) Tour and a True Test.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »