Advertisement By JOE LAPOINTE The four investors about to take control of the Islanders do not have extensive backgrounds in professional hockey management, but all have learned about the sport in peripheral ways. If their partial purchase of the troubled franchise is approved, as expected, this week, they will attempt to turn around a sports business that has plunged in less than a decade from one of the most successful in the sport to one of the worst managed in the front office and least effective on the ice. All four executives-in-waiting say they are aware of what is wrong and are eager to begin the process of change. Although novices in the hockey business, they are successful in the world of finance, well-grounded on Long Island and at least acquainted with the world's fastest team sport and how it is presented at Nassau Coliseum. Advertisement Here are quick introductions: *Robert Rosenthal, who will become one of two co-chairmen, lived in a Westbury apartment building with several members of the expansion Islanders in the early 1970's. Back then, he sat in season-ticket seats behind the penalty box and occasionally debated the rules with Philadelphia's Dave Schultz, the biggest and baddest of the Broad Street Bullies. "I have never been known for not being vocal," Rosenthal said in a recent interview. "That's why they made the glass higher behind the penalty box. To protect me." Advertisement *Jerome Grossman, who will become the new team president, learned the sport at the amateur level by driving his child to practices and games at all hours of the day and night. His offspring still plays occasionally: She is a defensewoman. *Stephen Walsh, set to become the other co-chairman, is the son of a Ranger fan and is a former ticket buyer at the Coliseum who perceives things through the eyes, and ears, of a customer. He wants to change plenty of things, starting with the organ music, which, he said, has always "bugged" him. "It sounds like I'm at a roller-skating rink," he said. "I want it different, more upbeat. More fun. I don't want to listen to 1940 organ music, plain and simple." *Ralph Palleschi, who will become the executive vice president, is learning the business from the ground floor, literally. Last weekend, when he and his partners posed for photographs in front of one goal at the Coliseum, Palleschi was impressed by the size of the playing surface from that perspective. "I never realized how long the ice was," he said. All four should learn plenty of things in the very near future. Although they are believed to be buying only 10 percent of the team from John O. Pickett Jr., they have options to buy up to 50 percent. Most important, all parties say, they will have full control to operate a franchise that needs direction and focus. A decade ago, in the era from 1980 through 1983, the Islanders won the Stanley Cup in four consecutive seasons and sold virtually every ticket for every game. They were considered a model franchise for a league on the rise. And the Long Island economy was booming. This season, if they don't make the playoffs, they will have missed post-season play in three of the last four springs, the time of year when most franchises make their biggest profits. Their attendance average is less than 10,000 a game, the lowest in the league. Their planned new practice headquarters remains only partially built and stalled by financial problems. The team's radio network barely covers parts of recession-plagued Long Island and is impossible to hear in some sections of the primary market. Star players like Bryan Trottier, Pat LaFontaine and Brent Sutter have left the roster under less than happy circumstances. Around the troubled league, people ask, "What's wrong with that franchise?" Advertisement "We view the Islanders as an under-utilized, under-managed business franchise, brand name, whatever you want to call it, with a great recognition factor and a great market," Walsh said. "We know we have a good opportunity here. All business goes through cycles. The Long Island economy is going to come back. Maybe the resurgence of the Islanders will be coincidental with the resurgence of Long Island." Certainly the new bosses know plenty about economics. Rosenthal and Palleschi are former executives with Entenmann's, the bakery, and now operate First Long Island Investors. Walsh and Grossman have Wall Street backgrounds and currently play major roles with Walsh, Greenwood & Company, an investment firm. The four came together last summer after Walsh and Rosenthal played golf at a country club and began talking, as businessmen will, about deals. All four live on Long Island and are involved in many charities and civic institutions. They say their stewardship will be a contrast to that of Pickett, who lives in Florida and is rarely seen or heard from.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "We are very much aware of the past reputation of the ownership being inaccessible," Rosenthal said. "We are four Long Island business people and four Long Island fans rolled into one. We are going to be energetic, enthusiastic and we recognize there is a big challenge for us to conquer." As president, Grossman will work out of Nassau Coliseum and handle the day-to-day operations of the club. Palleschi will handle the financial affairs. Walsh and Rosenthal will concentrate on the involvement of fans and businesses from the Island community, a far-flung and diverse collection of quaint villages and modern subdivisions and farms and mansions and shopping malls and often-clogged traffic arteries. The executives plan to meet at least once a week. "The Long Island community is a difficult community to put your arms around because of the geography of Long Island," Rosenthal said. "We embrace Long Island, and Long Island embraces the Islanders." Bill Torrey, currently the chairman of the board and general manager, has been asked to remain as general manager, but hasn't given the new group his response. Because the general manager will name the coach, this leaves the future of Coach Al Arbour in question. In interviews last week, the new executives all said they approve of Torrey's trade-based overhaul of the roster this season and they said they have faith in both Torrey and Arbour. The details of their financial deal with Pickett are also somewhat murky. Neither Pickett nor his new partners would name the percentage of the team being sold or the amount of money changing hands. The N.H.L.'s president, John Ziegler, through a spokesman, Gary Meagher, said last week that the piece is 10 percent. In that most hockey franchises are valued between $50 million and $100 million, a 10 percent share of the Islanders should be worth between $5 million and $10 million. Advertisement In addition to the four executives, there are an unspecified number of other investors but they have no control of team operations. Pickett, in a telephone interview from his home in Florida last week, said that "the new group has the right to buy up to 50 percent any time they want -- it's their timetable." Can the new partners go beyond 50 percent? Do they have first option to buy Pickett's remaining percentage if another buyer approaches him? "We have a right to buy from him before he can sell to anyone else," Grossman said. But doesn't Pickett, the majority owner, have final approval over the operating budget? "There are certain things they would probably want to discuss with me," Pickett said, "but I want to stress that I can't think of a single thing I wouldn't want them to have free will in. If you don't do that, you might as well be there running it yourself." Getting Started Islander executives of the future were in Chicago on Friday for what they hoped would be approval of the Board of Governors. Because the players union set a March 30 strike deadline on Friday morning, the collective-bargaining crisis dominated discussion and partial transfer of Islander ownership was tabled until this week, Ziegler said, adding that the board liked the Islander proposal and that the delay in no way signaled disapproval. In some ways, the new group is already behaving as if it is in control. Current employees are acting on "suggestions" from the new executives involving ticket prices for playoffs and promotions for later this month. The new executives say they will freeze most ticket prices, lower some others and consider plans for remodeling the Coliseum or for building a new arena. Grossman has traveled with the team to road games on its chartered airplane and up the Coliseum stairs to interview fans in the back rows. He's been asking for their suggestions. They've been giving him an earful. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 22, 1992, on Page 8008003 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; Making the Islanders Their Business.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »