Advertisement  The University of Bridgeport had the right scene but the wrong ending for the final chapter of its basketball program. Playing what was in all likelihood the final game in Bridgeport's 45-year history in the sport, the Knights lost to Virginia Union, 100-75, this afternoon in the championship game of the National Collegiate Athletic Association Division II tournament at the Springfield Civic Center. A storybook finish for Bridgeport was edited out at the start of the second half when Virginia Union went on a 15-4 run to grab a 17-point lead, and then cruised home for the title. Bridgeport, in a financial crisis brought on by declining enrollment and an unforgiving recession, will cease all intercollegiate athletics at the end of the school year. The university needed a $2.2 million loan from a consortium of banks merely to open for the spring semester, and 31 degree programs will be dropped after this academic year if the school remains in operation. Advertisement When the final buzzer sounded today, as the Virginia Union players piled together at center court in jubilation, the Bridgeport players sat motionless on the bench with their arms around each other, clearly aware that there will be no more basketball at Bridgeport for the foreseeable future. Advertisement Bruce Webster, the Knights' coach, tried to keep a lid on emotions at the post-game news conference, but he ended up choking back tears. "I don't want to get deep into this," said Webster, who is ending a 27-year career as the Bridgeport coach. "I don't want to think about the last game and all that stuff. This is the greatest group of kids I've ever been associated with. I think they displayed their heart the entire season. I'm going to miss them. I just wish it would never end."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Faced with the gloomy prospect of every game being their last, the Knights made an inspired run through the Division II tournament. In the quarterfinals, they went into overtime to defeat Central Oklahoma, 127-124. In the semifinals, they scored 8 points in the final 55 seconds to defeat California (Pa.), 76-75, snapping California's 29-game winning streak. Virginia Union was just too big and strong inside for Bridgeport. Center Derrick Johnson had 17 points and 6 blocked shots for the Panthers, while forward Reggie Jones scored a team-high 19 points and grabbed 11 rebounds. Bridgeport was led by Winston Jones, who had 23 points. The championship game was a disheartening culmination for the 54-year-old Webster, who compiled a 478-285 record, making him the winningest coach in New England Division I and II history. Webster guided nine Bridgeport teams to 20-victory seasons, and this season's 28-7 squad set the school record for victories. Like the nonsenior Bridgeport players, who will be allowed to transfer without having to sit out a year, Webster must now find a new school. Bridgeport had to finish its tournament run with its leading scorer, Lambert Shell, hurting. The 6-foot-4-inch senior forward, who averaged 23 points a game this season, badly sprained his left foot against Central Oklahoma in the quarterfinals. After sitting out the semifinal game, Shell started against Virginia Union but was hindered by the injury. He scored 11 points, 2 in the second half. Afterward, the loss hurt more than his foot. "We've been playing through so many things happening at the school and so many things happening with the team, like coach said, it's the greatest group of guys I've ever been associated with," Shell said. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 29, 1992, on Page 8008007 of the National edition with the headline: COLLEGE BASKETBALL: DIVISION II; It's Final: Bridgeport Loses Last Game.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »