Advertisement By MICHAEL MARTINEZ and  It was a test. Not a major one, but important enough that Joe Montana, who is attempting a comeback from elbow surgery in October, allowed himself to sound optimistic today, three months before the start of the San Francisco 49ers training camp. He was rusty and tight, but Montana gave himself a passing grade after throwing for more than an hour during a minicamp. "My arm felt pretty good," the 49ers quarterback told an assembly of reporters. "It was a little different having to throw the ball with timing. I almost tripped over my feet a few times, but other than that, I felt good about the session." Montana, who will turn 36 years old in June, has been tossing the ball lightly since January, but today marked the first time he threw to receivers running routes against defensive backs. He threw at least one pass of 40 yards. Advertisement "It was basically a test for me," he said. "I've been doing the throwing, and I knew that my arm could handle it, but there's always that one time where you have to drop back and have to throw it a little quicker and with more torque on your arm. So it was a test." Advertisement George Seifert, the 49ers coach, said he was pleased with Montana's workout. Told that Montana had complained of rustiness, Seifert said: "I'm sure Joe senses that, being the perfectionist that he is. But I can't say that I sensed it."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Montana, of course, hasn't taken part in a practice since August. Since then, he has had two operations: one in which a tendon was reattached to his elbow on Oct. 9, then arthroscopic surgery on his left knee March 7. 'I Felt Good When It Was Over' He acknowledged some concern for his elbow during the session, in which he alternated with quarterbacks Steve Bono and Bill Musgrave, but said it did not prevent him from throwing with snap when he had to. "I tried to throw and just forget about it," he said. "It was still on my mind, so I'm sure I held back a little bit. But in some cases I had to throw harder than others, especially one along the sideline. I felt pretty good about the velocity I put on the ball. Hopefully, that'll get me over the hump because I felt good when it was over." Montana is scheduled to throw twice during Saturday's session and will take part in two other minicamps in May and June before training camp opens July 15. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 11, 1992, on Page 1001039 of the National edition with the headline: FOOTBALL; After Test, Montana Gives Himself a Passing Grade.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »