Advertisement By FRANK LITSKY and  Dan Jansen didn't win. He didn't even get a medal. But he didn't fall, and when his chance for redemption had passed and he had finished in fourth place in the 500-meter speed-skating race in the Winter Olympics, he said he was not disappointed, just surprised and a bit relieved it was over. His story has become lore, how in the 1988 Winter Olympics in Calgary his 27-year-old sister died of leukemia six hours before his first speed-skating race, how he fell in that race, returned to Milwaukee for her funeral, returned to Calgary and, four days after his first race, incredibly fell again in his second and last race. In the four years since, he and Uwe-Jens Mey of Germany have won almost every important 500-meter race in the world. Here, at the XVI Olympic Winter Games, they were the overwhelming favorites. This was Jansen's chance to atone for at least the athletic disappointments of Calgary. It did not happen. Mey, who won the gold medal in Calgary, won again in 37.14 seconds, an average of 30 miles an hour. Japanese skaters were next, with Toshiyuki Kuroiwa winning the silver medal in 37.18 seconds and Junichi Inoue, in his first international season, the bronze in 37.26. Jansen was fourth in 37.46, far from his three-week-old world record of 36.41 at Davos, Switzerland, but he did not have to contend then with rain and a wet and bumpy track. Looking to Gold or Silver Advertisement "I'm relieved this is over," he said. "I can't say I'm disappointed. I'm surprised, if anything. I thought I would come out of this with a gold or silver medal, if anything." Advertisement As always, the skaters raced two at a time. Mey's winning margin of four-hundredths of a second worked out to 2 feet. Jansen finished 8 1/2 feet out of a bronze medal, 15 feet out of the gold. "Probably his nerves didn't hold out as well as they should have because he should have had a medal," Mey said. "I feel very sorry for him. He congratulated me. He said he really didn't know why he didn't skate that well." Kuroiwa was surprised at Jansen's showing as well. "I was aiming for the bronze medal," said the man who won the silver. Robin Jansen, Dan's wife for less than a year, was relieved. "My greatest concern was his well-being," she said. "That he finish the race and feel good about it. I didn't make eye contact with him right after the race, but I saw that he smiled and waved to the crowd. We've all been so worried about him. That was everybody's concern. No one cared where he finished." Jansen is 26 years old, powerful at 6 feet and 185 pounds. "He's just too big on soft ice," said Dianne Holum, a former United States medalist and coach.  No Worry of Falling  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Jansen comes from West Allis, outside Milwaukee, and trains on the 400-meter oval there. He is pleasant and speaks easily, but for four years every interview has begun or ended with questions about his Calgary nightmare. And everyone wanted to know: Did he worry about falling? Would he fall again? "It wasn't going through my mind," he said. "Falling isn't something you think about. I haven't fallen but once or twice since 1988." Jansen was unhappy that he had drawn the outside lane for his race. The skaters switch lanes in the backstretch so that each skates the same distance, but starting on the outside meant that he had to skate the last turn on the inside, where the turn is tighter. Advertisement He did not seem to skate crisply, and he appeared to hesitate going into that last turn. Peter Mueller, the American coach, thought he was tentative into that turn. "I didn't think I was tentative," Jansen said. "I thought I skated a good race. I was surprised how slow it was.." So now he must look forward to Tuesday night, when he and Mey and the Japanese meet again in the 1,000 meters. He has won the world sprint championship, which consists of two races at 500 meters and two at 1,000, and World Cup titles and races at both distances. "I haven't thought about the 1,000 yet," Jansen said. "It has definite medal possibilities. I have strength and speed. The 500 is my better race, but if I skate a fast last lap, a medal is possible." If he wins a medal, fine. If not, Jansen seems prepared, and he appeared to show after his race today that he could handle the bad as well as the good. "I have no excuses," he said. "The other guys beat me." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 16, 1992, on Page 8008003 of the National edition with the headline: ALBERTVILLE; No Spills Or Thrills: Jansen Is Fourth.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »