Advertisement By ROBIN FINN Winning still means everything, but athletes, in their new role as plaintiffs, are learning the lingo of litigation, and agents, suddenly cast as defendants, are outraged. And everyone's professing resentment that some of the most lucrative alliances in the sports world have come unraveled. The sue-me, sue-you blues has hit the three giants of the sports management business, International Management Group, Advantage International and ProServ. Agent-client dissension on an intrapersonal basis is nothing new: Kareem Abdul-Jabbar charged that Tom Collins mishandled $9 million in investments and sued him for $50 million; Lee Trevino and Seve Ballesteros have hired and fired a string of agents, and the Federal government is about to prosecute Norby Walter and Lloyd Bloom again on racketeering charges for illegal recruitment of college athletes. But for these three international corporations, which represent stars like Andre Agassi, Joe Montana, Moses Malone, Chris Evert, Stefan Edberg, Arnold Palmer and Martina Navratilova, the scenario is unprecedented. See You in Court Advertisement For the first time, all are facing a colorful array of mismanagement accusations lodged by athletes they once represented. And in another industry first, all three corporations say they will fight to the finish in the courtroom to preserve their repute and prove their accusers way off base. Advertisement "There does seem to be a proliferation of this sort of thing," said Mark McCormack, the creator and owner-operator of I.M.G., which, with its $750 million in yearly revenues, is undisputed king of management companies. "It can't help the image, but I don't think it's going to change anything we've ever done in terms of how we do business, and I don't think we have the slightest intention of folding on any of these cases," said McCormack, who said I.M.G. would aggressively fight cases filed by Dorothy Hamill, Andrea Jaeger and Judy Nelson, who has attempted to include I.M.G. as a co-defendant in her palimony suit against Navratilova. The athletes, meanwhile, charge that they have been exploited because of their lack of sophistication in matters of finance, insurance and other spheres of business where they expected their agents to act as expert navigators. Surprisingly it is tennis players, renowned for their dependency on agents to provide a myriad of personal services ranging from business manager to bodyguard to confidante, who lead the surge of malcontents. Four Cases in Point At the moment, four test cases appear headed for the courtroom, and the mood surrounding each is contentious: *A former tennis player, Gene Mayer, charges that ProServ and Advantage International sunk his life savings, an amount his lawyer estimates at $2 million, into an undiversified portfolio containing real estate and utilities tax shelters that are "virtually worthless." Mayer, who filed his case in March 1989, is seeking $4 million in compensatory and punitive damages from each of the two companies. *Dorothy Hamill, the figure skater, says the International Management Group owes her at least a million dollars for behaving, in her estimation, like a negligent bully instead of a fiduciary. I.M.G. initially sued Hamill last July, alleging she owed almost $200,000 in back commissions when she quit the agency last spring after a dispute. Hamill, citing I.M.G.'s unauthorized removal of $75,000 from her account and the disappearance of videotape from her "Nutcracker" ice ballet, for which I.M.G.'s television subsidiary was a paid producer, countersued in October, seeking damages in excess of $1 million. *A former tennis player Andrea Jaeger, an I.M.G. client from 1979-87, stunned McCormack and Bob Kain by filing a $6 million claim against I.M.G. in May 1991, two months after she received a $60,000 settlement from Lloyd's of London, face value of a temporary disability policy she held with them. Jaeger's suit accuses I.M.G. of several misdeeds, most of them insurance related, that range from providing her with insufficient information on a multimillion-dollar disability policy to encouraging her to continue to play tennis despite her injury. Advertisement *Three active tennis players -- Ken Flach, Robert Seguso and Scott Davis -- of whom only Davis has officially left Advantage and joined I.M.G., filed a joint suit against Advantage Investments in October 1990, seeking $5 million each. The complaint refers to 10 real estate and utilities limited partnership deals that Advantage offered as "secure investments for their future" but are, according to their lawyer, Mitch Margo, "virtually worthless. He said each player invested several hundred thousand dollars. 'No Intention of Settling' McCormack termed the Hamill and Jaeger suits "patently ridiculous." Ivan Blumberg, ProServ's corporate counsel, said Mayer received a "reasonable return on his investment," and Dean Smith of Advantage Investments denies that Flach, Seguso and Davis received bad investment advice. "We've already spent several hundred thousand dollars on these suits, but we've been accused of cheating, and we're going to prove we didn't," said Smith of Advantage Investments. "At this time, we have no intention of settling. We take it seriously when we're accused of fraud, but it seems like it's just another game to them." Said one prominent tennis agent, who spoke on condition of anonymity in order to remain a prominent tennis agent: "There's something else you can depend on besides death and taxes, and that's that a client will jump to another agency in a minute and sue in a minute. Suing is becoming an industry unto itself." Loyalty, hitherto a rule of thumb in the player-agent alliance, is wearing a splint these days. Even the relationships between individual agents and their firms are temporal: Two prominent agents, David Falk, who formerly represented Mayer, and Sergio Palmieri, recently left ProServ to start their own practices, taking with them their top clients, including Michael Jordan (Falk's) and John McEnroe (Palmieri's).  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The management companies contend that disgruntled athletes, most of them retired or approaching the end of their careers, are being egged on by unscrupulous lawyers and the litigious climate peculiar to this country. They complain the athletes are hoping to shake them like money trees. They also insist that the vast majority of their clients are satisfied with their services, for which they typically earn 10 percent of an athlete's prize money and 25 percent on endorsements, and that the unrest is coming from an aberrant and unrealistic few. "They think they can walk out on an investment the same way they can cancel an appearance, and they're a potential problem only because our legal system does very little to discourage frivolous lawsuits," said Phil dePicciotto of Advantage, Steffi Graf's agent for the last eight years. "Once the management companies have won a few of these suits, it should prove a deterrent: No one should be allowed to get away with fraud, but when there's been no wrongdoing, we will not settle a case." The athletes say the current crop of suits is the beginning of a landswell. "From what I hear, the filing of my lawsuit has totally shaken up the agent business," said Mayer, whose two-year-old case is the ice-breaker of its genre. Advertisement "The three big agencies are professionals in the sports marketing area, but they portray themselves as experts in all fields, and when you're traveling 40 weeks a year, you need to rely on experts, but what they're really doing is playing fast and loose with clients' money," said Mayer, who now divides his working hours between his Oyster Bay, L.I., sports marketing firm and coaching young tennis pros like Fabrice Santoro of France. "I know other lawsuits are brewing; they're positioning themselves and waiting to see what happens with mine." Don't Blame the Economy Mayer's lawyer, Barbara Wahl, said management companies had to take responsibility for investments for their clients. "To blame this on the economy is too facile an answer," she said. "We've alleged malpractice and fraud and some self-dealing." Wahl claims Advantage and ProServ invested Mayer's money in 26 or 27 limited partnership deals between 1978-85 that are, with only a couple of exceptions, now an ongoing tax burden. Hamill's former agent at I.M.G., Bob Kain, has vehemently denied any wrongdoing. Kain admits that I.M.G. lost videotape outtakes from "The Nutcracker" show, "tape that ended up on the cutting room floor and which we agreed to replace for $30,000," and he also admits to authorizing deductions of $75,000 from her account. "But the $75,000 was money that we'd loaned her two years ago," said Kain, who contended that Hamill's case is based more on embarrassment value than fact. Hamill's lawyer, George Hedges, said I.M.G. resolved to bully his client from the moment it initiated litigation with the breach of contract suit last July. "They can't deny the fact that they sued first; these guys operate like they're above the law, and they want everything, even the termination of the relationship, on their own terms," said Hedges, who says I.M.G. never agreed to reshoot the lost tape as Hamill requested. "And the issue is not whether they advanced her the $75,000, but that they made a unilateral deduction without her consent. There's a level of arrogance here, and they're going to get nicked, if not by Dorothy, than by someone else. You don't get up in front of a jury and say, 'I make and break little girls like you.' Our case is very much alive." As for Jaeger's case, Kain said the company offered her a higher insurance policy but, like most clients, she turned it down. And he said, contrary to what her suit charges, the company actually helped Jaeger, now 26, stop playing tennis. "Her father was the one who encouraged her to play," Kain said. "Now we're probably going to have to file a suit against him even though we don't think he did anything so wrong." Jaeger's lawyer, Charles Drake Boutwell, refused to comment on the case beyond disclosing that there have been "no settlement offers" from I.M.G. Risk Factors Unknown Advertisement Mitch Margo, the lawyer for Flach, Seguso and Davis, said his clients were unaware of the risk factor of the limited partnerships Advantage put them into, and further charged that "in some cases, Advantage invested along with clients and then pulled out and sold their shares to others, a couple of whom I now represent." Meanwhile, said Margo, Advantage has sued Seguso for commission fees it says he owes from October through December of 1990. "Because certain investments didn't make money, they say they got bad investment advice," said Dean Smith of Advantage. "But we took no commissions or finder's fees, and beyond the fact these cases are costing time and money, we're relaxed about them." Relaxed or not, things probably won't ever be quite the same between agents and their athlete clients: "On top of everything else," said one agent, "now you have to be perfect." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 2, 1992, on Page 8008004 of the National edition with the headline: SPORTS BUSINESS; Athletes vs. Agents, Off Court and In Court.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »