Advertisement By HARVEY ARATON and  A man who likes challenges, among other things, Alberto Tomba now has more motivation for the 1994 Winter Olympics than he needs and probably wants. It would seem that the fabled La Bomba has a genuine nemesis on his calloused hands in 25-year-old Finn Christian Jagge of Oslo, who proved today for the second time this winter that he can win the big one, the slalom, against Tomba on the road. Most of the fans lining the course for the last Alpine event of the Olympics were Tomba's, an estimated 10,000 who came from nearby Italy and hopelessly jammed the switchback mountain road into this distant Savoy station. By late in the race, Tomba had the momentum from a stirring second run. At the moment Jagge reached out from the start house to dig his poles into the snow for his second trip down the course, Tomba still had the lead. But 52.96 one-hundreths of a second later, Tomba had a silver medal. Jagge thus won the gold, giving Norway two golds and a pair of bronzes in Alpine skiing at these Olympics and the reputation as a formidable Alpine player. Advertisement This has less to do with the failures of Switzerland, among others, and more to do with Norway putting serious money and labor into its own Winter Games at Lillehammer in 1994. That is where Tomba will have to go reclaim his gold, and certainly it won't be a place where the course is a mountain of Italian green, red and white. Advertisement It wasn't as if Jagge ruined the Olympics for Tomba, who won the giant slalom gold last week. Judging from Tomba's postrace mood, it didn't appear that Jagge even darkened his afternoon. Jagge did roadblock Tomba's joy ride into the Olympic history book, preventing him from a repeat double gold from Calgary -- where he won the slalom and giant slalom -- and from becoming a holder of an unprecedented four Olympic gold medals in Alpine skiing. Silver, he said, wasn't such a blow to his ego after a first run that was loose at the top put him more than a second and a half behind Jagge's superb 51.53. He reported a problem with sharp, slippery edges on his skis. "I didn't feel comfortable and confident to go for it," he said. Two of the other strong medal candidates, Luxembourg's Marc Girardelli and France's Patrice Bianchi, departed this race on their first run, Girardelli having wasted one of the best times by missing a gate not far from the finish and Bianchi eliciting a chrous of hometown groans by missing a gate a third of the way down. There were still four men between Tomba in sixth place and Jagge in first, eventual bronze winner Michael Tritscher of Austria and World Cup leader Paul Accola of Switzerland among them. By some quirk of vision, Jagge could only see Tomba in his rearview mirror. "I was nervous," he admitted. "But I felt that I could have a normal second run and still win." Roar Tells the Story  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. As Tomba, skiing 10th in the afternoon, poised for his second run, the Norwegian said he was better off not knowing what kind of time the Italian would produce. But the crowd gave away the secret with a gigantic roar. Tomba ferociously attacked every one of the 63 gates, his linebacker-like legs surging into every turn. When Tomba was past the finish line in 51.66 seconds for a cumulative time of 1:44.67, he collapsed on his back, at once joyous and exhausted. Given the first run, he knew he had made the best possible play on a lousy hand. He'd handed Jagge pressure. Jagge heard the fans grow louder as each of the four racers between Tomba and him failed to unseat Tomba from the lead. Jagge told himself that no matter how good a run Tomba had had, he could win if he just focused on himself. Advertisement "I had to tell myself that about a hundred times," he said. If he believed that, it was because he was able to draw on his experience last December, when he took the first-run lead in a World Cup slalom at Madonna Di Campiglio, Italy, only to have Tomba roar down the slope and take the lead in the afternoon. Once upon a time in his career, when he had the reputation as a great first-run racer and a second-run flop, this would have been his cue to make the crucial mistake. But a coach had suggested that he see a sports psychologist, just like Tomba has. His results began to improve. And on that December day, with banner-waving Tomba zealots lining the course, Jagge won in the legend's lair. This being for a gold medal, Tomba hoped Jagge would lose the moment. While Tomba waited, Jagge, who needed a 53.24 to win, crossed in 52.96 and a 1:44.39 total. He won with 28 one-hundredths of a second to spare, and Tomba was part of the reception committee to lift him in the air. Later, Tomba was saying he was happy and looking forward to the rest of the World Cup season, when someone asked if he would revert to the life style he led after the 1988 Olympics. "Eating, drinking and womanizing," the reporter said. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 23, 1992, on Page 8008001 of the National edition with the headline: ALBERTVILLE; Norwegian Topples Tomba in Slalom.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »