Advertisement By CLIFTON BROWN He revolutionized basketball, playing it as no one of his size had ever before. He helped lift the National Basketball Association to unprecedented popularity, not only in America but worldwide. He led the Los Angeles Lakers to five league titles, bringing passing and teamwork back into vogue. And he did it all with a charismatic smile and a magnetic personality that made him a favorite among fans of all ages. Magic Johnson's career cannot be measured by mere statistics. Before his retirement he was one of the greatest basketball players of all time, not just because of what he did, but because of the tremendous impact he had on the game. Johnson's accomplishments are unmatched by any active player. In addition to his five championships, Johnson was named the league's most valuable player three times. He holds the record for career assists (9,921). He led Michigan State to the 1979 National Collegiate Athletic Association championship. In 1980, he was the first rookie to be named the most valuable player in the playoffs. The Lakers reached the finals nine times during his 12-year career. And in September, he was named to the 1992 United States Olympic basketball team. Spectacular Play and Teamwork Advertisement But Johnson cannot be fully appreciated by reading his accomplishments. You had to see him play. Magic was the perfect nickname. It was given to him in high school by a sportswriter in Johnson's hometown of Lansing, Mich., who had just watched Johnson get 36 points, 18 rebounds and 16 assists. Advertisement No one had ever seen a 6-foot-9-inch player like Johnson who could handle the ball as well, and who had as much versatility. His no-look passes and baseline-to-baseline rushes to the basket became his trademark. He proved emphatically that basketball could be dominated from the point-guard position. And while Johnson's play was often spectacular, it was also cerebral. He had an almost intuitive sense of when to pass, of when to shoot, and of when to take over a game. One of Johnson's most memorable performances came in his rookie year in the 1980 N.B.A. finals against the Philadelphia 76ers. With center Kareem Abdul-Jabbar unable to play in the sixth game because of injury, Johnson played all five positions and finished with 42 points, 15 rebounds and 7 assists to clinch the title. That was the beginning of a run that made the Lakers the team of the 1980's, and helped catapult the N.B.A.'s popularity to an all-time high. When Johnson and Larry Bird entered the league in 1979, television ratings were low and many teams were financially unstable.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But the popularity of Johnson and Bird helped change that. Both of them were unselfish, and both had a flair for the dramatic. Their intense rivalry started in college, when Johnson's Michigan State team defeated Bird's Indiana State team in the 1979 N.C.A.A. finals. The rivalry continued when Bird joined the Celtics, as Boston and Los Angeles dominated the sport for a decade, providing many great moments for drawing more fans to the sport. Ironically, Johnson and Bird became close friends over the years, and they gained even more appreciation of each other's talents as they grew older. Johnson, who is 32 years old, had not reached the point where his game had begun to deteriorate. But during the past two years, Johnson spoke more often of retiring than he had in the past. He was greatly disappointed when the Chicago Bulls defeated the Lakers, four games to one, in the 1991 finals. Johnson said in the finals that he was already planning for life after basketball. He has made millions of dollars from basketball and from various business and endorsement ventures. But being infected with the AIDS virus puts Johnson's life on a new road. Johnson said he would be a spokesman on the human immunodeficiency virus, known as HIV, and would also like to work with the league. He also wants to own an N.B.A. team. Johnson was married Sept. 14 to his longtime girlfriend, Earletha (Cookie) Kelley, and he has a son, Andre, who lives in Michigan. Perhaps it was fitting that Johnson's last game-action occurred in Paris last month, when he helped the Lakers win the McDonald's Open. The fans in France adored Johnson, crowding around him in the streets and cheering wildly during the games. Johnson was indeed a worldwide ambassador for basketball. One of the greatest tributes to Johnson is that despite his success, few other athletes ever seemed envious, because he handled everything with such class. He was what every athlete hopes to be: a winner. Johnson missed the Lakers' first three games this season because of what was described then as the flu. He was weak and he had lost weight. On Monday, he was cleared to begin practicing, but later it was learned that tests showed that Johnson had been infected with the virus that causes AIDS. Johnson's retirement is a loss for all sports fans. He was an inspiration for youngsters. He has been active civically, particularly with the United Negro College Fund. Johnson's annual charity game has raised over $6.5 million for the United Nations Children's Fund. He will be missed by his teammates. He will be missed by his opponents. And it's a safe bet that the world will never see another basketball player quite like him. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 8, 1991, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: BASKETBALL; A Career Of Impact, A Player With Heart.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »