Advertisement By DAVE ANDERSON IN the craggy mountains above Sarajevo the other day, a Serbian soldier stopped an American correspondent. But the soldier's question was not about political developments following the United Nations sanctions to pressure Yugoslavia, now composed of Serbia and Montenegro, into ending the bloody war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Instead, the soldier's question involved a much lesser conflict. "How," he asked, "are the Chicago Bulls doing in the N.B.A. playoffs?" This time a year ago, that Serbian soldier was probably watching Belgrade's own Vlade Divac, playing for the Los Angeles Lakers against the Bulls in the N.B.A. Finals. But in Sarajevo now, basketball is merely an afterthought to staying alive in and around the smoggy old city where the 1984 Winter Olympics were held. Sarajevo's link to Olympic history adds to the irony of the ruling the International Olympic Committee has promised by June 15: to decide if Yugoslavia will be permitted to compete in the Summer Olympics at Barcelona, Spain. "It's simply not fair," said Divac, a member of Yugoslavia's silver-medal basketball team in 1988 at Seoul, South Korea. "We're not politicians and warriors. We are only sportsmen and sports should not mix with politics." Advertisement The mix is never fair to athletes, but the mix sometimes generates the greater good. South Africa's worldwide embarrassment at being banned from the Olympics and Davis Cup tennis because of apartheid was at least a subtle factor in that nation's recent revocation of those laws. Advertisement South Africa will be represented at Barcelona in two months. Yugoslavia may not be. But if the threat of an Olympic ban were to contribute to stopping the shelling and sniping in Sarajevo, it's certainly fair to the people there, the people who cherished the 1984 Winter Games, the people who had a different perspective on the parade of Olympic athletes in the opening ceremony. "For centuries," a Sarajevo man said that day, "other armies have marched through our country. The Venetians, the Turks, Napoleon, Austro-Hungary, the Nazis. This is the first time the invaders aren't carrying weapons." Now weapons are being carried again. This time by Serbs and Muslim Slavs who lived side by side in the gray city where World War I started. In 1914, Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, wearing a plumed helmet and riding in an open car, was assassinated by 19-year-old Gavrilo Princip to protest Austro-Hungary's occupation of Bosnia and Herzegovina.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. On a downtown sidewalk near one of the old Roman bridges over the dark Miljacka River, white shoeprints denote where Princip, revered as a hero in Sarajevo, stood when he pulled the trigger. Now the people listen for the hiss of mortars, launched not far from Mount Bjelasnica, where Billy Johnson won the men's downhill and the Mahre twins, Phil and Steve, finished 1-2 in the men's slalom, and not far from Jahorina, where Debbie Armstrong and Christin Cooper finished 1-2 in the women's giant slalom. "Jahorina, it has no meaning in the Serbo-Croatian language," an interpreter explained. "Jahorina, it's just a beautiful mountain, like a beautiful woman. But like a beautiful woman, watch out." Now the people there must watch out as they hurry past burned red-and-cream trolleys that once rolled past the Zetra Arena where Scott Hamilton won a figure-skating gold medal. Or as they hurry past Skenderija, the Olympic center, where a Yugoslav skier, Jure Franko, was cheered when presented with a silver medal in the men's giant slalom. "Olimpijski Snovi Franko," a banner blared that night. "Franko Is Our Olympic Dream." But where is Jure Franko now? Where are all the Olympic flags with the snowflake logo? Where are the Olympic dolls of Vucko the Wolf, the mascot with the Disneylike twinkle in his fangs? And what's happening in that little restaurant that announced "pizza" in red lights down the street from Skenderija where one night a French Olympic official handed the bartender a fistful of dinars. "Just in case," the Frenchman said. "But nothing will break. Everything will be safe." Turning, the Frenchman snapped the tablecloth off a table without disturbing the empty carafe and the glasses on it. Eventually he put a chair on the tablecloth and persuaded a Soviet bobsledder, already fortified by vodka, to sit in it. Advertisement "You will be safe," the Frenchman said. Snap. Still sitting in the chair on the table suddenly without a tablecloth, the bobsledder smiled. He was safe. But in Sarajevo now, nobody is safe. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 4, 1992, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; Sarajevo's Olympic Connection.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »