Advertisement By JOSEPH DURSO Derby fever seemed to be spreading around New York's horse barns yesterday as the chances grew that all four top finishers in the Wood Memorial would head for Kentucky to challenge Arazi in the Run for the Roses on May 2. H. Allen Jerkens, the trainer who saddled four winners Saturday at Aqueduct, including Devil His Due in the Wood, seemed to be leaning toward the Kentucky Derby after some early doubt. West by West ran himself back into Derby contention by running a strong second. Rokeby, who flew across the Atlantic from Britain, had sore heels yesterday after finishing third but his itinerary still included Louisville. And Snappy Landing scraped his hind ankles in the mud during the Wood, but ran fourth only three lengths from the lead and was also still in contention. If so, New York suddenly stands to regain some of the clout lost in recent years as the favored route to the Derby has wound through California, Florida or Arkansas, where Pine Bluff won the Arkansas Derby on Saturday, or this year even France, where Arazi has dazzled the racing world. 'He'd Have a Shot' The mood was reflected by Jerkens, who said yesterday: "There are reasons to go and reasons not to go. But people who don't know anything about racing know about the Derby. The first thing they ask you is, 'Did you ever win the Derby?' Elliott Burch told me he won three Belmont Stakes, but nobody asks about them. Mike Smith said the horse felt strong, and was even goofing off the last part of the race. If he does go to Kentucky, he'll be one of the contenders. He'd have a shot. It's not like he'd be 70 to 1." Advertisement Devil His Due raced into contention as a Derby candidate after winning four of his six starts this year, including a dead heat with Lure in the Gotham two weeks ago and a powerful run to his one-length victory in the Wood. Immediately after the Wood, Jerkens seemed doubtful that he would push his colt further. "He's done a lot, and we don't want to overdo him," the trainer said. "I'd prefer not to go to the Derby." Advertisement But in the cold light of day, he seemed more receptive. He reported that Devil His Due "ate fine and walked fine," and said that the decision would be made in a day or two after he had talked with Edith LiButti, the owner. "No use hemming and hawing," he said. "It's great to have a horse that good." Jerkens, who is 63 years old and lives in Huntington, L.I., added to his reputation Saturday as the king of coups. He not only won the Wood, but also defeated the star filly Versailles Treaty with his filly Missy's Mirage. To top it off, his colt Belong to Me out sprinted both Salt Lake and Dixie Brass. In other coups during his 30-year career, he has saddled horses that upset Buckpasser once, Secretariat twice and Kelso three times. A Big Turnaround  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. If West by West goes to the Derby, it would mark a dramatic turnaround in fortune for his owner, John H. Peace, and his trainer, Rusty Arnold. Last year, they nourished hope that West by West would become a star at age 3, but the hope faded when he ran third and sixth in his last two starts. By then, Colony Light had become the Derby candidate of the stable. But he ran 10th in the Blue Grass last week, West by West revived and nearly won the Wood, and suddenly the senior star got top billing. "We're pleased," Arnold said, "because we liked this horse all last year. He seemed to bounce back in the Wood and run like he did last year. He had no problem finishing. And, of course, the Kentucky Derby is a possibility." Rokeby, the namesake of Paul Mellon's Rokeby Stable, came out of the Wood with sore heels and some filling in his front ankles. But the deputy trainer, Peter Williams, said: "We were delighted with his race. The Derby? We're going to chew it over, and he'll stay here until we decide." Dennis Manning, who trains Snappy Landing for Frederick McNeary, said the mud on the track had skinned his colt's ankles, and added: "He should be O.K. Mr. McNeary will think it over about the Derby. But he has given us the opinion he wants to run in Kentucky." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 20, 1992, on Page C00002 of the National edition with the headline: HORSE RACING; The Sun Shines Bright on a Cloudy New York Day.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »