Advertisement Supported by Wizards 90, Knicks 89 By Tom Pedulla Carmelo Anthony was able to string together so many good days and nights for the Knicks that it almost came to be taken for granted. But when the Knicks desperately needed Anthony, facing a must-have game against the Washington Wizards with the schedule dwindling to a handful of dates, he struggled to play through an injury to his right shoulder and was ultimately unable to provide another big effort. Anthony lost control of the ball as he tried to slash down the lane in the final seconds — the nadir of a nightmarish evening in which he had almost as many turnovers (9) as points (10) — and the Knicks suffered a devastating 90-89 loss at Madison Square Garden. Anthony said the unspecified shoulder injury occurred Wednesday during a 110-81 rout of the Nets at home. “It was a lingering effect,” he said. “Throughout the game, there was no strength. Hopefully, I will be all right.” Despite the injury, Coach Mike Woodson stuck with a grimacing Anthony for 38 minutes 22 seconds. The situation was that dire. “I know during the first half it was bothering him, and he had mentioned it to me a little bit before we started the second half,” Woodson said. “But he said he was O.K. and going to play. I trust that if he tells me he’s going to go, he’s going to go.” Anthony said he never considered not playing, or taking more minutes off than usual, in a critical game. “There was no way I was coming out,” he said. “Not under these circumstances. Not in this dogfight that we are in.” The Knicks, who fell to 33-44 as their three-game winning streak ended, suffered only their fourth defeat in 16 games, but it was a huge one: The Atlanta Hawks, their primary rival for the eighth playoff berth in the Eastern Conference, moved ahead by one game by downing the visiting Cleveland Cavaliers, 117-98. To make matters worse, the Hawks have two additional games remaining. Washington has already clinched a playoff spot, its first since 2008, to end the N.B.A.’s third-longest drought. The path ahead only grows more treacherous for the Knicks. Their five remaining games are all against teams in line for playoff berths. Three are on the road, beginning with a visit to the Miami Heat, the two-time defending N.B.A. champions, on Sunday. “Our attitude is that we have to win,” Tyson Chandler said. “Our backs are against the wall, so we have to get a win.” Anthony finished with a season low in points. He converted only 5 of 14 field-goal attempts and missed all four of his 3-point attempts. With Trevor Ariza, a former Knick, spearheading an outstanding defensive effort, Anthony was held scoreless in the second and third quarters. Although Anthony pulled down eight rebounds to go with five assists, he was guilty of one wildly off-target pass after another. The rest of the Knicks combined for only seven turnovers. “I figured we would get a good look, but Melo ended up splitting the pick-and-roll and then bobbling the ball down the lane,” Woodson said of the final sequence. The Knicks, unable to create many opportunities inside, were outscored in the paint, 38-22. They were able to get to the free-throw line only eight times, converting seven. The Wizards hit 9 of 15 free throws. Randy Wittman, Washington’s coach, praised Ariza for his relentlessness on defense against Anthony. “Trevor fought and fought him,” Wittman said. “At the end, we decided to trap him and make someone else beat us.” Bradley Beal, a guard, led the Wizards with 28 points, the last of them coming on a 20-foot jump shot that provided the final margin with 22.9 seconds left. The Knicks squandered an outstanding effort from J. R. Smith, who tallied 32 points and drained half his 16 3-point tries. But his last-second heave from 25 feet after Anthony’s gaffe was off. REBOUNDS Although PHIL JACKSON has served as team president for more than two weeks, Coach Mike Woodson said that they had yet to have an extended conversation and that he did not expect one to occur until the season ended. “We haven’t had any conversations; we’ve had some small talk here and there,” he said. “My focus has been on trying to get this team into the playoffs.” Woodson did not offer any timetable on the possible return of Andrea Bargnani (torn ligament, left elbow) or Kenyon Martin (sore left ankle). “All I’m trying to do is prolong this,” he said. “Hopefully, we will get them back.” Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS