Advertisement By JACK CURRY and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES Steve Sax woke up this morning ready to play baseball, just as he always does. Sax was especially eager because the Yankees were playing the Dodgers, the team that shunned him in contract negotiations three years ago. Whatever modicum of revenge there is to be extracted from a spring training game went unrealized today by Sax. He was hit in the elbow by a pitch against Minnesota Tuesday and Manager Stump Merrill rested him, regardless of the opponent. The X-rays of the elbow were negative and Sax tried talking his way into the lineup, but Merrill stood firm. Though Sax sat, the move did not sit well with him. "I just want to play against them," said Sax, who also had a chest cold. "No question. It's because it's the Dodgers." Wrong Assumption Advertisement Since he has not been hugged by Tommy Lasorda since 1988, one might assume that Sax would not care about an exhibition game that even Darryl Strawberry skipped with a tight hamstring. It would have been the wrong assumption. Advertisement "I guess if there is a World Series," Sax said, "you hope it would be against them." New York probably wished today was October. The Sax-less Yankees belted five home runs and crowned the Dodgers, 13-9, at Fort Lauderdale Stadium. Roberto Kelly had two homers and four runs batted in a contest that featured 33 hits. Dion James had a pinch-hit single in the barrage, but the Yankees said after the victory that he would undergo surgery for ligament damage in his left elbow and will miss the entire season. James, who had a solid chance to make the team as a backup outfielder, will have a ligament from his wrist moved to his elbow. General Manager Gene Michael said the surgery would be performed soon in California by Dr. Frank Jobe. The Yankees want James back next season.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Sax insisted that he was not bitter toward Los Angeles, but some of his words said otherwise. The 31-year-old second baseman said he was unfairly labeled after a stretch of defensive lapses in 1983. Sax said the errors prevented the Dodgers from touting him as a complete player. "The biggest star on the Dodgers is Tommy Lasorda," Sax said. "Now I get treated as a player. That means a lot to me. More than the money." Difference of Opinion During negotiations, the Dodgers further irritated Sax. The Yankees tendered him a three-year, $4 million free-agent contract after the 1988 season while the Dodgers offered $3.5 million. After eight years with Los Angeles, Sax did not think $500,000 was much more for the club to spend on him. Los Angeles thought otherwise. "We told them nine days before I signed that I had an offer from the Yankees and they should sign me," Sax said. "They told me not to sign because we were still talking. I said: 'Not anymore we're not. Bye.' " The Yankees extended Sax's contract four years to 1995 for $12.4 million four months ago and he is elated with the way things have transpired. Now Sax is hoping to rebound from a forgettable season and help the Yankees mimic Los Angeles in one way: winning. --------------------       Perez Throws Without Pain Pascual Perez threw for eight minutes without pain Wednesday in his longest and most impressive camp showing yet. The pitching coach, Mark Connor, said Perez's mechanics were perfect and he was optimistic about having him back by the middle of May. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 14, 1991, on Page B00012 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Sax Finds Happiness Being an Ex-Dodger.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »