Advertisement Supported by By Megan Thee-Brenan Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter is usually judged by the number of hits or World Series rings he has, but it is his sky-high favorability rating that is of note in the latest New York Times/NY1/Siena College poll of New York City residents. Jeter, who spent much of last season on the disabled list and turns 40 in June, announced in February that he would retire after this season, his 20th with the Yankees. With Jeter scheduled to take the field for his final home opener as a player Monday afternoon, fans were widely supportive of his decision to retire. More than three-quarters of Yankees fans agreed that this year should be his last. But many fans will undoubtedly miss Jeter, the Yankees’ captain. “I’m really sad to see him go. He was a wonderful athlete, a wonderful player and just a good guy all around,” Nancy Strohmeyer, 52, a Yankees fan from the Bronx, said in a follow-up interview. “He’s never given the Yankees a minute of embarrassment, and he’s been playing for them since he was 19. There are not many professional athletes who can say the same. But he is old for a shortstop, so it’s time for him to do something else.” One Yankee who has not spared the team embarrassment, third baseman Alex Rodriguez, received low marks from fans in the survey. Rodriguez, who is suspended for the season, was viewed unfavorably by 54 percent of Yankees fans — a sharp contrast to the 91 percent who viewed Jeter favorably. About 6 in 10 of the team’s fans said Rodriguez’s absence this season would not affect the Yankees’ chances of making the playoffs. Asked about the effect of Rodriguez’s suspension on the team, Strohmeyer said, “He’s kind of outlived his usefulness, regardless of his issues with steroids and performance enhancers.” After the Yankees’ failure to make the playoffs last year, most fans were more optimistic about this year’s team. Just one week into the season, two-thirds of Yankees fans said they expected their team to be in the playoffs this year. “My prospects for this year are guarded, but I’m pretty confident that they’ll make it to the playoffs,” said Steven Nuzzi, 59, of the Park Slope area of Brooklyn. “They made some great acquisitions in the off-season — Tanaka is a great pitcher; the new catcher McCann, and Ellsbury in the outfield,” he added, referring to Masahiro Tanaka, Brian McCann and Jacoby Ellsbury. “They’ve really solidified the positions that they were weak in last year.” There was significantly less optimism about New York’s other baseball team, the Mets, who finished last season with a 74-88 record. Just one-fifth of all baseball fans, and 3 in 10 Mets fans, said they expected the team to make the playoffs this year. Still, 4 in 10 of the team’s fans said that although the Mets would not reach the postseason, they would be competitive this year. “Being a Mets fan, I would like to say they will make the playoffs,” said Mark Joseph, 81, of Manhattan. “But if you want an honest answer, I don’t think they will make it this year. Maybe it will be a building year.” Asked his opinion of Jeter, Joseph said: “As a Mets fan, I have great disdain for the Yankees. But Derek Jeter is a great ballplayer. He’s been marvelous. Not only is he technically good, but his attitude toward the game is good. He’s a good example for young people — heck, he’s a good example for us all. I’m just sorry he wasn’t a Met.” That was a sentiment shared by many Mets fans: 8 in 10 of them viewed Jeter favorably. The citywide New York Times/NY1/Siena College poll is based on telephone interviews conducted March 29 through April 3 with 1,190 adults, including 515 who said they were very or somewhat interested in major league baseball. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus four percentage points for baseball fans, six points for Yankees fans and seven points for Mets fans. More results from the poll will be released at 7 p.m. Monday at nytimes.com. Allison Kopicki contributed reporting. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS