Advertisement 
Sports of The Times  By                     
 WILLIAM C. RHODEN
 
APRIL 5, 2014
 Sometime around 1989, a small group of black coaches and writers began a Final Four tradition. We would meet, at coffee houses, snack shops, dimly lit restaurants, and talk into the hours of the morning about issues affecting young black athletes. We discussed, we debated and we argued. The group included John Chaney, the head coach at Temple at the time; Georgetown’s John Thompson; Arkansas’s Nolan Richardson; and Southern California’s George Raveling. They had a mission and a point of view: to use their prominent positions to call attention to issues like eligibility standards, standardized tests, social well-being and the hiring and promotion of young black assistants. Sometimes, they backed up their opinions with actions. Two months before that first informal meeting, Thompson had walked off the court before a game to protest a recent N.C.A.A. edict that tightened eligibility rules by linking them to standardized test scores. Now a new group of black coaches is looking for a voice and a cause. The issue staring them in the face is the declining numbers in their ranks. Advertisement In 2014, the percentage of African-American head coaches is at its lowest level since the 1995-96 season. Connecticut’s Kevin Ollie is the only African-American coach at this year’s Final Four. “It’s definitely a concern,” he said during a conference call last week. Advertisement Thompson and Richardson were sources of inspiration when he was young, Ollie said. “They paved the way for me that I can have a job and do it successfully,” he said. “But it’s definitely something we need to take a long look at, and hopefully we can get more African-Americans in these jobs, in these positions, that they can run a program.” He and the dwindling number of coaches like him face an array of challenges that are no less harrowing but far more complex than the issues confronted by Thompson, Chaney, Raveling and Richardson 20 years ago. Raveling has prodded the new generation of African-American coaches to come out of the shadows, be more vocal. That’s not as easy as it sounds. Raveling, Thompson, Chaney and Richardson were key figures in the Black Coaches Association. The group, so powerful in the 1980s and ’90s, is a shell of what it once was. “In the old days, when they saw the old B.C.A., they saw a bunch a black folks holding the hammer,” Raveling said. That hammer was actually extraordinary talent. Patrick Ewing single-handedly turned Georgetown into a destination. Led by Ewing, the Hoyas won the national championship in 1984, and they played for the title in ’82 and in ’85. Richardson won the national championship with Corliss Williamson in 1994, and went back to the Final Four a year later. “For whatever reason, it’s not in vogue for the great black athlete to play for a black coach,” said Paul Hewitt, the coach at George Mason. In an industry driven primarily by the muscle of young black athletes, the imperative for black coaches should be finding a way to have greater access to the talent pipeline, if not control over it. Leonard Hamilton, the coach at Florida State, said the inexplicable disconnect between black college coaches, high school coaches and Amateur Athletic Union coaches must be smoothed over.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. What distinguished the older generation of coaches — Chaney is 82, Raveling is 76, and Richardson and Thompson are 72 — was the way they turned their experiences of surviving the rigors of segregation into compelling narratives for their players. “If you go back to our great-grandparents, we touch slavery real quick,” Raveling said. “We came out of a totally different environment, and when we came out, we were angry. These young guys, they come out of an environment where they’re pretty satisfied.” Advertisement Harvard Coach Tommy Amaker, who has been an active participant in conversations with the younger generation of coaches, said he thought the current group was just as dissatisfied with conditions as Raveling, but for different reasons. He said it was merely a question of tactics. Still, for contemporary black coaches, the fundamental conundrum remains determining what they stand for. “We’ve got to define that,” Amaker said. “What is our cause? Is it graduation, is it one-and-done? Is it hiring of more minority coaches?” Whatever they decide, the universal challenge for all coaches is proving that they can take young players where they want to go. “When those guys arrive on your campus and they have luggage and you look and see their suitcase, you think there are garments in there,” Raveling said. “You know what’s in those suitcases? Their dreams. When they come to your campus, they bring their dreams. In this society, it’s about helping kids fulfill their dreams and aspirations. It’s about taking them someplace they can’t get on their own. It’s more than just winning basketball games.” We stopped holding our coffee shop meetings several years ago. For the new generation, it might be time to reinstate those late-night sessions. Email: wcr@nytimes.com  A version of this article appears in print on April 6, 2014, on Page SP2 of the New York edition with the headline: Black Coaches’ Fading Voice.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »