Advertisement By HARVEY ARATON Homecomings are quieter now, more contemplative, for Chris Mullin. Brookville, L.I., is not Brooklyn, and the Mullin family's most powerful voice has been stilled. In the old days, back in Flatbush, the once-per-season visit by Mullin and the Golden State Warriors to New York City meant an afternoon of the family stuffing hundreds of tickets into envelopes by the kitchen table. The neighbors would come. The door would open. The tickets would be dispensed. "It got a little crazy after a while," Mullin said. "My father used to shake his head." But he would have had it no other way. Rod Mullin would have filled Madison Square Garden with family and friends to watch his son, the professional basketball star, if he could have. A game at the Garden was a happening, a town meeting. For all the games Chris Mullin played there in college at St. John's and since joining Golden State in 1985, he could not remember his father missing one. "I guess," he said yesterday, "this will be the first." Advertisement The Mullin family, as always, will be represented tonight when the Warriors play the Knicks. Mother Eileen and daughter, Cathy. Chris Mullin's three brothers, Roddy, John and Terrence. Roddy's two children, aged 4 and 1. But they all go tonight for the first time without Rod Mullin, who died of cancer at the age of 56 last July. 'Get Something Nice' Advertisement The family left Brooklyn three years ago, from the three-bedroom house in which Rod Mullin's four boys fit snugly into one room. Chris Mullin one day told his mother, "Get something nice, as long as it has a pool." Eileen Mullin needed just one day, and, as a bonus, found something with additional recreational space for basketball and tennis. Summer family get-togethers were destined to be that much noisier. "This room is probably bigger than our old house," Mullin said, relaxing on a basement couch, after flying into New York yesterday morning from Charlotte. "That's one thing I'm grateful for. My father got to be here. He loved this place. I remember how he'd sit outside, watching us go at each other, just smiling."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In the weeks after Rod Mullin's death, Mullin was haunted by the frightful vision of his once-robust father eroded by illness. Rod Mullin had been a considerable source of comfort and strength, along his son's hard road to becoming a three-time N.B.A. All-Star. There was seldom a night, upon leaving the Oakland Coliseum after a game, when Mullin wouldn't dial his father on the car phone during the short ride home to Alameda. It would be early morning in New York. Rod Mullin worked a day job as a customs inspector at Kennedy Airport. "He never went to sleep until I called," Chris Mullin said. Admitting He Was an Alcoholic So it was the night three and a half years ago when Mullin called home and made the most difficult admission of his life. He was an alcoholic. He had decided to get help. "I had put off that call for a long time, just for the reason that it involved my family," Mullin said. "I thought it would kill my father when the news got out." "You're doing the right thing," Rod Mullin, himself a recovering alcoholic, said without hesitation. Father and son were closer than ever. Chris Mullin said, "Like best friends." The car phone no longer useful, Mullin said he still often sought late-night council. After games, he will walk in the park with his dog, and will find himself speaking out loud, as if his father were standing beside him. "After those first few weeks, it got better," he said. "I didn't think of him being sick anymore. I thought of him the way he'd been." The strong voice in the night from home. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 28, 1991, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: PRO BASKETBALL; Mullin Family to Hold Bittersweet Reunion.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »