Advertisement  AP The Texas Rangers won a club-record ninth straight game by beating the Minnesota Twins, 5-2, tonight in 12 innings. The victory also gave the Rangers -- who had won eight straight five times in club history -- the longest winning streak in the majors this season. Seattle had won eight straight from April 15-23. Jack Daugherty, who tied the game with a sacrifice fly in the 9th, led off the 12th with a single off Carl Willis (1-1). After Geno Petralli sacrificed, Brian Downing singled. Rafael Palmeiro then doubled down the right-field line to score Daugherty, and Juan Gonzalez added a two-run single one out later. Royals 3, Mariners 1 KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) -- Tom Gordon threw a four-hitter and become baseball's earned run average leader as Kansas City beat Seattle hours after the firing of Manager John Wathan. Advertisement Gordon (3-2), who lowered his e.r.a. to 1.38, came within an out of his first shutout this season, losing it when Ken Griffey Jr. hit his third home run. Advertisement The loss knocked the Mariners out of a share of first place in the American League West. Tigers 9, Orioles 5 DETROIT (AP) -- Cecil Fielder had two home runs -- one in a six-run second inning -- and three runs batted in for Detroit. Detroit sent 10 men to the plate in the second, started by Fielder's first homer of the game. He ended it with a grounder. Red Sox 4, Brewers 0 BOSTON (AP) -- Tom Brunansky had a homer and three r.b.i., and Danny Darwin made a strong return from injury as Boston completed a sweep of the three-game series. Darwin (2-1) allowed six hits and no walks, struck out four and threw 57 pitches in five innings. He was activated Wednesday after spending 29 days on the disabled list, recovering from bronchial pneumonia and tendinitis in his right shoulder. A's 2, Blue Jays 1 OAKLAND, Calif. (AP) -- Mike Moore outpitched Dave Stieb and made two first-inning runs stand up. Jose Canseco's r.b.i. double and Ernest Riles's run-scoring grounder in the first were enough for the Athletics. After giving up 11 earned runs and 18 hits in six and two-thirds innings over his previous two starts, Moore (6-2) held the Blue Jays to one run and four hits in seven and two-thirds innings. Advertisement He left with the bases loaded in the eighth, and Dennis Eckersley came in and struck out Joe Carter. Eckersley finished for his 11th save. White Sox 5, Angels 3 ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) -- Sammy Sosa hit a three-run homer to lift Chicago. Charlie Hough (1-2), who allowed five hits in seven and two-thirds innings, won for the first time since Sept. 12, when he beat the Yankees. Cardinals 5, Pirates 3  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. PITTSBURGH (AP) -- Doug Drabek lost again as St. Louis scored two runs after Barry Bonds dropped an apparent inning-ending fly ball in the second. Drabek (2-7), the 1990 National League Cy Young Award winner, allowed nine hits and four runs in seven innings. He has already lost one more game than he did while going 22-6 last year. The error was Bonds's first of the season. He committed six last season while winning his first National League Gold Glove. Astros 3, Dodgers 2 HOUSTON (AP) -- Rebounding from a poor start, the Astros' Jim Deshaies gave up only one run and two hits in seven innings. Deshaies (2-4) lost his first four decisions for the first time in his career before beating St. Louis last week. Brett Butler led off the game with a single, and the only other hit Deshaies allowed was a home run by Darryl Strawberry in the fourth inning, his third in two games. Reds 9, Giants 4 CINCINNATI (AP) -- San Francisco reached a six-year low as Eric Davis, Chris Sabo and Paul O'Neill homered for Cincinnati. Advertisement The Giants' fifth consecutive loss matched their longest skid of the season and left them 12-27, the first time they have been 15 games under .500 since their 100-loss season of 1985. Phillies 8, Expos 1 MONTREAL (AP) -- Dale Murphy had three hits and drove in two runs and John Kruk added three r.b.i. as Philadelphia snapped the Expos' four-game winning streak. Pat Combs (2-2) pitched a nine-hitter for his first complete game of the season. Padres 7, Braves 2 ATLANTA (AP) -- Bruce Hurst (5-1) pitched a six-hitter and Benito Santiago homered for San Diego. Santiago led off the fourth inning with his fifth homer off Steve Avery (5-2) and added an r.b.i. single in a four-run fifth inning. Valenzuela Begins Comeback PALM SPRINGS, Calif. (AP) -- Fernando Valenzuela began his comeback with the California Angels' Class A team at Palm Springs, giving up four hits, three walks and one unearned run in four innings. He struck out two. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 23, 1991, on Page B00016 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Rangers Break Their Club Record By Beating Twins for 9th Straight.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »