Advertisement By JACK CURRY The zeros for the home team remained on the Yankee Stadium scoreboard for what seemed like hours last night, looking orderly and sweet to the Texas Rangers and demeaning and dirty to the Yankees. But inning after scary inning, Jose Guzman insured their presence by not allowing the Yankees a run or a hit. They walked to the plate on a cold and windy evening and were quickly mesmerized by an assortment of sinking fastballs, sliders and changeups. If a Yankee hit the ball, it was caught, and he trudged back to the dugout with the zeros still hovering over him. After 19 Yankees had succumbed to Guzman, one finally emerged to put a 1 on the scoreboard in a few places as Matt Nokes rapped a homer to right field with one out in the seventh. It broke up the no-hitter and also broke an 0-for-14 slump for Nokes, but it did not break Guzman, who settled for a two-hitter as the Rangers won, 5-1. "It's hard not to think about the no-hitter," said Guzman, who also allowed a bloop single to Kevin Maas in the seventh. "I was thinking about it ever since the third inning. I was getting nervous." Advertisement Guzman was dominating, and his defense rarely had to be. The Yankees did not even come particularly close to a hit during the first six innings, and they muddled through a scoreless streak of 16 innings before Nokes connected in the seventh. After being three-hit by three Rangers Tuesday night, they have produced one run in the last two games and finished Manager Buck Showalter's first month with two losses and a 13-8 record. Advertisement "I'm not satisfied with 13-8," Showalter said. "I'd like to be 21-0. That may not be practical, but that's the way we approach it." Through the first six innings, the Yankees mustered only three walks and did not have a runner reach second. One night after Kevin Brown notched 11 outs before the Yankees had their first hit, Guzman took it even further by not allowing a hit while nailing down the first 19 outs. He struck out eight. The Texas starters had been hammered for 19 earned runs in 23 2/3 innings, but they remedied themselves and stifled the Yankees on one earned run over the final 18 innings.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Just before Nokes's homer, Mel Hall looked like he would thwart the no-hitter with a liner to right field, but first baseman Rafael Palmeiro leaped to snare the ball in what was the best play the Rangers had to make. Even Guzman said, "I was lucky on that one." "When you don't have a hit for the first seven innings, the guy is doing something right," Hall said. It was the third two-hitter Guzman has thrown since returning to baseball in 1991 after being out two years with shoulder injuries. He is the only pitcher in major league history to miss two years with an injury and then return to win at least 10 games in the next season. Last night, he was eight outs shy of achieving a more prominent place in baseball history. After being the marquee pitcher in his last two outings, Greg Cadaret was reduced to a footnote last night. Cadaret carried an 18-inning scoreless streak into the game. But before he could even break a sweat, before some fans found their seats and before the first inning was finished, the streak died. Brian Downing's walk, Palmeiro's double and Juan Gonzalez's sacrifice fly gave Texas a 1-0 lead. The Rangers doubled their lead in the second on a rare occurrence: a left-hander hitting a home run off Cadaret. When Kevin Reimer slugged a shot into the right field seats, it was the first home run by a left-handed batter off Cadaret since Sept. 1, 1990, when Mike Greenwell had an inside-the-park home run in Boston.  INSIDE PITCH DON MATTINGLY has had pain in his right hand since the spring and it bothered him so much last night that he could not play for the first time this season. Dr. MELVIN ROSSENWASSER, a hand specialist, examined Mattingly twice yesterday and diagnosed him as having tendinitis in the little finger on his right hand. Mattingly said he also has carpal tunnel syndrome in his hand. He was injected with cortisone after the game and expects to play Saturday. "He doesn't seem to think it's a big deal," Mattingly said. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 30, 1992, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Yanks Come Up Cold, And Just Above Zero.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »