Advertisement By JOE SEXTON The Mets, completing an exhaustive and often exhilarating off-season reconstruction project, yesterday did their final bit of reassembling when they obtained left-handed reliever Paul Gibson from the Detroit Tigers for outfielder Mark Carreon and reliever Tony Castillo. "We're set," said Gerry Hunsicker, the assistant vice president for baseball operations for the Mets, who also acquired Randy Marshall, a minor league pitcher, from the Tigers. "Unless there is a major injury or development of that sort, I don't see us changing anymore before the season." The change the Mets made yesterday was one they had attempted to make for a year. The Mets said that the acquisition of Gibson, a 32-year-old workhorse who can perform any number of relief roles, provided them with a "quality and veteran" left-hander who can complement the talents of closer John Franco and right-handed setup man Tim Burke. Confident on the Mound "He doesn't light your eyes up with his fastball," said Manager Jeff Torborg, who said that as manager of the White Sox he had been impressed with Gibson. "But he's got an air about him. He gives you the impression that the game is in control when he is on the mound." Advertisement Gibson spent 10 seasons in the minors before he got a shot with the Tigers in 1988. Used extensively and experimentally by the Tigers -- he has started games and closed them -- Gibson made more than 60 appearances in both 1990 and 1991. Advertisement Last season, Gibson's 68 appearances were the third most in the American League. His numbers fell off radically over the second half of the season, however, and he wound up 5-7 with a 4.59 earned run average and 8 saves. "I enjoy pitching often, and my role has evolved," said Gibson, who was raised in Center Moriches, L.I., and who was a fan of the Mets as a child. "I won't go so far as to say I was overworked, but I don't know if I was prepared to pitch as much as I did. But I took the baseball when asked, and I'll do so in New York, too."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The departure of Carreon stands to be a healthy development for both the outfielder and the Mets. The Mets, who considered trading him last spring, were less than thrilled with Carreon's performance last season. Second-Half Slump Carreon hit three pinch-hit homers in the first month of the season, but then hit only one home run the rest of the year. In his occasional starting appearances, Carreon demonstrated himself to be a suspect fielder and inconsistent everyday force at the plate. Disenchanted with his limited role, Carreon's attitude deteriorated throughout the season and he twice violated club policy by leaving the dugout and departing from the stadium before the end of the game. He said publicly that he felt unappreciated by the Mets, frustrated by his status as a backup and desperate for a trade. "I'm not going to cut any throats," Carreon said yesterday by telephone from his home in Arizona. "New York is definitely the place to play, but you have to be playing. I've always had full confidence in my ability. I just couldn't show it in New York." INSIDE PITCH General Manager AL HARAZIN yesterday voiced the team's support for CLINT HURDLE, manger of the Mets' AAA Tidewater franchise, who was arrested Monday on a charge of stealing items from a grocery store in Williamsport, Pa. Calling the incident an unfortunate misunderstanding, Harazin said Hurdle was confronted even before he left the store. The police in Williamsport said the charge involved the theft of Valentine's Day items worth $1.79. The Mets said that Hurdle was more embarrassed than anything and that he had paid a fine and ended the affair. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 23, 1992, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Mets Trade Carreon to Tigers for Gibson.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »