Advertisement Supported by By Peter Kerasotis TAMPA, Fla. — Joe Girardi had barely heard a comment concerning the weather in Panama when he blurted: “Ninety-eight, every day. Friday, Saturday, Sunday. Ninety-eight. The low is 75, and if you look during the middle of the day it’s not humid, but it gets humid at night. Believe me, I checked it out. It’s 98, 98, 98.” Spoken like a tourist and not so much like a baseball manager who was taking his team to another country for a couple of spring training games. Actually, though, Girardi is both. “I’m interested in going,” he said. “I’m excited. I want to see the Panama Canal; see things I’ve never seen.” He also wants to see how C. C. Sabathia performs in his next start, and assorted other things that a manager looks for during spring training. The Yankees’ flight — they took a split-squad team — left Thursday night for Panama, just a few hours after the team beat Baltimore, 6-0, at Steinbrenner Field. The team will be in Panama for three days, sightseeing while promoting baseball in the country that produced one of the franchise’s greatest players, Mariano Rivera. It is the first time since 1947 that Major League Baseball will play games in Panama. The Yankees will be getting their spring work in, even if the weather will feel distinctly like summer. They sent a handful of regular players, including Sabathia, Derek Jeter, Carlos Beltran, Brett Gardner, Alfonso Soriano, David Robertson, David Phelps and Adam Warren. Catcher Brian McCann was also scheduled to go, but Girardi decided to keep him back, sending Francisco Cervelli instead. Girardi said he wanted McCann, an off-season free-agent signee, to continue working with the bulk of the rotation, particularly Masahiro Tanaka and Hiroki Kuroda, who are scheduled to start Sunday and Monday for the team that is remaining in Tampa. The split-squad team that is going to Panama will enjoy a day off on Friday, spending it seeing the Panama Canal and enjoying some planned functions. The Yankees will then play the Miami Marlins on Saturday and Sunday at Rod Carew Stadium in Panama City. The games are billed as the Legends Series and will honor Rivera, who retired last year as baseball’s career save leader. The trip includes charitable events and a dinner that will benefit the Mariano Rivera Foundation.  Girardi has joked with Rivera recently, telling him there is a spot for him playing center field for an inning, which is something Rivera has always wanted to do. Girardi also talked about how important he believes the trip is to Rivera. “I think we know what the Yankees mean to Mo, and I think we know what his country means to him,” Girardi said. “To be able to combine the two is really special. For me, if I was ever able to bring the Yankees to East Peoria, Illinois, it would be a huge deal for me. And that’s in the same country.” Sabathia is scheduled to start Sunday’s game. “When I heard about it, I wanted to go,” Sabathia said. “I think it’ll be cool. The fans will be really excited. It’ll be great to see Mo.” But as far as seeing the Panama Canal goes, Sabathia has been there and done that, on a celebrity excursion with his former teammate Andruw Jones. INSIDE PITCH The Yankees’ other split squad, which played Philadelphia in Clearwater, Fla., lost to the Phillies, 6-2. Ivan Nova had a rough start, allowing nine hits and three earned runs over five innings. Nova struck out six, with no walks. Jacoby Ellsbury hit his first home run in a Yankee uniform. ... Derek Jeter went 0 for 4 in Thursday’s game at Tampa. He now has only four hits in 24 at-bats, lowering his batting average to .167. “His timing is messed up,” Joe Girardi said. “I saw him pull some balls, and that’s unusual. With older guys, though, I’m not worried. Not in the spring.” ... The Yankees’ split-squad team that is staying in Tampa is scheduled to pitch David Phelps on Friday against Minnesota, Vidal Nuno on Saturday against Baltimore, Masahiro Tanaka on Sunday against Atlanta and Hiroki Kuroda on Monday against Pittsburgh.    Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS