Advertisement By WILLIAM N. WALLACE and  Chris Smith, Connecticut's leading scorer and all-round main man this season, failed to score a field goal tonight, going 0 for 8 from the floor. It made little difference. Maybe the lights were too bright at the glitzy Gampel Pavilion because there were plenty of other misses, too. Or, as the coaches said, the defensive play was too good. UConn stressed defense and beat Villanova, 72-58, for its 16th victory in 17 games this season. In Big East play, the league-leading Huskies are 7-1 after defeating the only team that had beaten them. Villanova (7-9, 5-3) won by 79-70 at home on Jan. 11. Smith did contribute 12 points by sinking 12 of 16 free throws, two of them at the expense of Rollie Massimino, the venerable Villanova coach. Massimino, whom UConn fans love to boo, was called for a technical foul that resulted in Connecticut establishing a 45-40 lead early in the second half.  UConn Leads All the Way Advertisement Although Villanova never had a lead in this bruising, inside battle, the Wildcats stayed close until Connecticut had a 15-6 run in the last 5 1/2 minutes. The final margin was the largest of the game, in which Connecticut led at halftime, 37-33. Advertisement In the face of Villanova's poor 34.5 percent shooting, Connecticut Coach Jim Calhoun once more was praising the defensive ability of his nine men. "We put a tremendous amount of pressure on Villanova," he said. Calhoun, whose team had won its two previous games in overtime -- beating Providence and Boston College -- had recently expressed concern that his squad had "lost our defensive rhythm." Calhoun did not care that his team had 19 turnovers, 11 in the first half, or that his players "threw the ball away about 100 times."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "We kept on playing," he said. "It was good basketball. We went through dry spells without scoring, and it didn't make any difference. We controlled the game without scoring points as we've done in the past. Intensity, defense, enthusiasm, that's Connecticut basketball." Someone had to score the points, and the Huskies' leader was forward Donyell Marshall with 15 even though he was 3 for 10 in field-goal attempts. More important, Marshall blocked seven Villanova shots, his single-game high in a season of major contributions by the freshman from Reading, Pa. Scott Burrell, UConn's second-leading scorer, sank half of his 12 shots from the field and had 13 points. The Huskies made good on 28 of 38 free throws, compared with 15 of 19 for Villanova, and outrebounded the Wildcats, 49-27, before the usual capacity and nosiy crowd of 8,241 at Gampel. Wildcats Struggle Offensively Massimino thought Villanova played well defensively but "struggled" offensively because of "the way Connecticut defended us." Lance Miller, a formidable penetrating guard-forward, led the Wildcats with 21 points. Why didn't Chris Smith have any field goals? "If I knew, I'd bottle it," said Massimino. "He made things happen, which is the sign of a very good basketball player." The Huskies would settle for that. Next up is St. John's at Madison Square Garden on Saturday afternoon. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 28, 1992, on Page B00010 of the National edition with the headline: BASKETBALL; This Time, Connecticut's Defense Is Much Too Tough for Villanova.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »