Advertisement By BARBARA LLOYD and  It is the eve of racing for eight international sailing teams that have challenged the San Diego Yacht Club for the America's Cup. On Saturday they will begin a three-month series of trial races to determine which will win the Louis Vuitton Cup for the right to challenge the United States in the America's Cup final in May. For many of them, just getting here was a victory. In the last month, attrition claimed two teams, the Slovenians and the Russians. Over the last four years, plans for a dozen other cup efforts collapsed under the burden of costs that are approaching $100 million for a campaign. "I am very lucky," said Marc Pajot, skipper of the yacht Ville de Paris. "The French had a lot of difficulty. I had to fight to win the first battle, which was to be here." Competitive Challenge Seven nations are represented in the challengers' series: France, Italy, Japan, Spain, Sweden, New Zealand and Australia, the only nation with two teams. A drawing among skippers today produced the first pairings for the round-robin match format. Advertisement The challengers' races are expected to be keenly competitive. "In the Louis Vuitton series, we have the top designers and the top sailmakers in the world, all competing," said Chris Dickson, Japan's skipper. "None of it will be easy." Advertisement The races coincide with the end of the first set of trials competition for the two American defense teams, Team Dennis Conner and America 3. Defiant, one of two boats sailed by William Koch's America 3 group, was the star of the first series.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. On Saturday, Defiant, unbeaten in five starts, will meet his second-string boat, Jayhawk, 0-5, in the last match of Round 1. Conner's Stars & Stripes finished at 3-3. Conner has been hamstrung by a funding shortage and an inability to build a second boat. Stars & Stripes lost all three of its matches against Defiant. But Conner, who is still considered a master in America's Cup racing, said he is "disappointed" but not discouraged. "There wasn't any problem that couldn't be solved by upgrading our sail inventory, and with a little more crew practice in this type of racing," Conner said after losing to Defiant on Wednesday. Conner, a man not given to compliments, praised Buddy Melges, the skipper of Defiant. "Buddy and his crew deserve a good grade in this first series," Conner said. "I think they're leaving very little on the table. And when you make a mistake against a guy like Buddy, you pay for it." MAKING WAVES Organizers of the America's Cup challenge racing have taken over television rights for the event's trial races and final match in May in lieu of plans by the San Diego Yacht Club to set up the coverage. The America's Cup Organizing Committee, which stages the cup races in San Diego, said that it was relieved to have the responsibility given to the challengers. The two groups have been embroiled in a dispute about the rights for the last two months. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 25, 1992, on Page 1001035 of the National edition with the headline: YACHT RACING; 8 Embark on Quest for Challenger's Slot.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »