Advertisement By BILL PENNINGTONJUNE 18, 2014
 EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. —  Giants defensive end Jason Pierre-Paul knows he had an unproductive season last year as he recovered from back surgery. But he feels some people around the N.F.L. have been too quick to declare that his days as a Pro Bowl-caliber player are over. “I’ve got something to prove this year, and I want to shut them up,” Pierre-Paul said after the Giants’ minicamp workout Wednesday. Pierre-Paul was not specific about whom he was referring to. He added: “A lot of people are doubting me. I know what people have been saying. But it’s O.K.; I’ll get them back this year.” Pierre-Paul had back surgery a year ago but was in the starting lineup when the Giants opened their season in September. He played 11 games before a shoulder injury sidelined him. Pierre-Paul had only two sacks. In 2012, when his back problems first surfaced, he had 6.5 sacks. In 2011, when he was an All-Pro selection, he had 16.5 sacks. Advertisement The 2013 shoulder injury has healed, and Pierre-Paul said he was 100 percent healthy for the first time in nearly two years. He also reported to the Giants’ off-season training activities in May weighing 275 pounds, about 15 pounds lighter than he was last season. Advertisement “Back surgery is a tough thing, and they’ll tell you it takes about a year to get over it completely,” Pierre-Paul said Wednesday. “But it wasn’t a year for me because I was back on the field in, like, four months. “But I wasn’t full speed. There was so much I couldn’t do. I couldn’t explode off the line, and I couldn’t get around the edge. I lost all that. But I’ve got all that back now. And I’m a greedy guy. I want to get to the quarterback and stop the run. I want to show a lot of people what I can still do.” Pierre-Paul added that he was challenging himself — and with good reason. He is in the last year of his rookie contract, which he signed in 2010. A version of this article appears in print on June 19, 2014, on Page B14 of the New York edition with the headline: Giants’ Pierre-Paul on a Mission.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »