Advertisement 
On Pro Basketball  By                     
 HARVEY ARATON
 
MARCH 27, 2014
 Drafting a high school player was not exactly Jerry Colangelo’s idea of a prudent developmental strategy. Even after the emergence of Kevin Garnett and Kobe Bryant, Colangelo was a true believer in the college experience, decidedly old-school. And then he sat in the Phoenix Suns’ practice complex in the spring of 2002 and watched the workout of a Florida scholastic prodigy, an athletic force of nature named Amar’e Stoudemire. “I told our staff, if he’s available when we pick at No. 9, he’s our guy,” said Colangelo, the Suns’ former owner. The young Stoudemire was as unrefined as a cactus: lots of fury, little finesse. “He couldn’t make a jump shot if you locked him in the gym by himself,” Colangelo said. Advertisement His family background was a flashing red light with fine print that read, Drafter beware. It was also an unintended endorsement. Advertisement After what Stoudemire had endured — his attendant father dead of a heart attack when he was 12; his mother in and out of jail, along with an older brother — it spoke volumes to Colangelo that the young man with the jet propulsion in his sneakers had not been altogether grounded. More than a decade later, past has proved to be prelude. Stoudemire is still standing, albeit on surgically scarred knees that betrayed him in midflight, deprived him of lasting greatness, turned him into an overpriced symbol of standard Knicks dysfunction. “Yet he’s still playing, still fighting,” Colangelo said in a telephone interview. “He’s had more adversity than 100 people put together. But he’s always had this self-confidence, mentally and physically, that he could overcome it.” Stoudemire will make his annual return to Phoenix on Friday night, to play against the team that refused to engage in long-term medical roulette with him in the summer of 2010. The Suns stepped aside when the Knicks offered Stoudemire, a free agent, roughly $100 million over five years to be their consolation prize after being rejected by LeBron James. Painfully for the Knicks, Phoenix’s instincts on Stoudemire were prophetic. Nothing short of a basketball miracle can change the defining portrayal of him as a savior gone sour, as the beneficiary of a contract the Knicks would love to dispose of sooner (this summer) rather than later (the summer of 2015). But there is also a heartening and even inspirational component to Stoudemire’s odyssey as the Knicks cling to their playoff hopes and while he, at 31, precariously hangs on to the perception of professional relevance. Those desperate pursuits are conjoined by the Knicks’ crying need for Stoudemire to continue contributing as he has since re-entering the starting lineup this month. The numbers — an average of 17 points and 6 rebounds in 11 games he has started — pale compared with what he was once capable of and what he delivered for the Knicks before they brought Carmelo Anthony into his life. Advertisement That is not the point. The minutes he has averaged (28.3) during a late-season run that has kept the Knicks on the margins of the playoff race tell the story of a man whose pride has at times seemed greater than his team’s.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “He could’ve given up at any time with his health issues, and he hasn’t,” Mike D’Antoni, who coached Stoudemire in Phoenix and New York, said Tuesday night before his Lakers thrashed the Knicks in Los Angeles. The operations and setbacks have blurred over time. In his first postseason with the Knicks, Stoudemire hurt his back during a pregame dunk. The next spring, he lacerated his hand by punching the glass casing of a fire extinguisher after a playoff defeat in Miami. He obviously has not always made life easier. But he has never walked away from the challenge of getting back on the floor when — certainly by the end of last season — the consensus was that he was all but done. “Yeah, I think everybody thought that,” D’Antoni said. “But he’s become a skilled player. He has that 15-footer he can make, so he doesn’t have to dunk every time or run the floor every time. “He’s learned how to play with some limits on his physicality, but it’s in his heart. He’s done it all his life, not only in the N.B.A. It’s remarkable, really a tribute to the strength of his character.” His defensive recognition was never stalwart, and the athletically diminished Stoudemire can be akin to a man trying to impede the ocean. But the younger highfliers often seem equally helpless against Stoudemire when he has the ball in the paint. Is it the rage of the luckless survivor that propels him to the rim? “I’ve seen this guy take some serious blows with the microfracture surgery and especially with family members, who he never turned his back on,” Colangelo said. During the Phoenix years, a younger half-brother, Marwan Williams, landed in prison. During Stoudemire’s time with the Knicks, the older brother, Hazell Stoudemire Jr., got out of jail and died in a car wreck. Advertisement When Stoudemire left Phoenix in 2010, Colangelo was gone from the Suns, preoccupied with assembling the United States basketball team for the world championships in Turkey that summer. He got a call from Donnie Walsh, who had just signed Stoudemire for the Knicks. “I called Jerry to tell him that we weren’t going to let him be on the team,” Walsh said, referring to the national team. “He hadn’t played yet for us. We had to protect the investment.” In the end, or perhaps nearing the end, we understand there was no way to protect or insure Stoudemire’s knees. Second-guessing the Knicks for not using their amnesty provision on him two years ago or for signing him in the first place (at the expense of David Lee) has become the soundtrack to the Stoudemire story. And that is fair. But the man has worked for his money. He hasn’t taken the easy way out. That should count for something. It could still mean the playoffs. Scott Cacciola contributed reporting from Los Angeles. A version of this article appears in print on March 28, 2014, on Page B12 of the New York edition with the headline: Scarred Leader’s Lesson to Knicks: Never Surrender.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »