Advertisement By JACK CURRY EVER walk into a bar and dominate the dart board the way Minnesota Fats used to control the pool table? Ever wonder if there was a way to make money from playing darts? Stop wondering because there is. More than $1 million in prize money will be awarded in 110 tournaments throughout the United States by the end of this year, according to American Darts Organization, the sport's governing body. The 1988 Lucky Lights Challenge of Champions, at the New York Penta Hotel Dec. 7-9, offers a $50,000 purse. Sandy Reitan of Torrance, Calif., is an apt role model for any darts player who would like to move to a higher level. She became a professional after achieving success in a pub nine years ago. Reitan had worked for N.A.S.A., Xerox, trained as a police officer and sold cash registers before she became hooked on darts. ''I did a lot of things, but nothing took my interest the way darts did,'' said Reitan, who is 36 years old and ranked first among women in the United States. Advertisement ''I found out immediately that it was something I could do better than others,'' said Reitan, who owns a dart shop in California. ''The more I played, the more I won.'' Advertisement Within four years Reitan had turned professional and earned the women's No. 1 world ranking twice (for 1983 and 1984). She credits her rise to three factors: exemplary hand-eye coordination, keen concentration and a positive attitude.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. For the amateur who is seeking to become a professional, finding the opposition is not the problem it is in other sports. Most darts tournaments allow amateurs to enter and compete against professionals. (The Challenge of Champions is not one of them. It is reserved for the finest players in the world.) ''This is one of the only sports that allows amateurs and professionals to play together in most instances,'' said Reitan. ''If someone thinks they can do it, all it takes is a $10 entry fee to give it a try.'' Reitan, who is currently ranked 12th in the world, makes it sound simple and, admittedly, darts is a very simple game. However, life as a professional can be a grind. She and her husband, Andy Green, who was once ranked 12th in the world among men, are usually on the road 40 weekends a year in the United States, Europe and the Orient. Normally, the best women players average $25,000 per year and the best men earn about $40,000. This year Reitan's winnings surged dramatically when she won $25,000 in the Tokyo World Darts Grand Prix, the most money ever awarded to a woman at a single tournament in the history of darts. ''The money is getting better and the players are getting better,'' said Reitan, who is the favorite for the $5,000 women's grand prize (the men's top prize is $10,000) at the Challenge of Champions. ''All I have to do is take my three little darts with me and I'm set. I can meet a lot of people and I love what I'm doing.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 5, 1988, on Page C00012 of the National edition with the headline: ON YOUR OWN; A Role Model For Darts Players.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »