Novak Djokovic advanced to his first Wimbledon final with a hugely entertaining win over Jo Wilfried Tsonga, winning in four sets, 7-6, 6-2, 6-7, 6-3. The match featured several thrilling all-court points, with each man making acrobatic gets on passing shots. In the end, Djokovic’s solid returning and relentless ground game wore down Tsonga’s aggressive shot-making. Tsonga broke Djokovic in the first game of the match and served for the first set at 5-4. He gambled by going for a big second serve at deuce in that game, and the double-fault gave Djokovic another break opportunity, which he capitalized on with a strong return of serve and a forcing forehand. Djokovic won the tie-breaker handily, then shot out to a 3-0 lead in the second set. He broke Tsonga’s serve again to win the set, 6-2. Djokovic clearly had the momentum when he broke Tsonga to open the third set, but he stumbled late in the third with the finish line in sight. Here Tsonga elevated his game, electrifying the crowd with power, touch, and athleticism as he took the third set after saving two match points. But Djokovic, who will move into the No. 1 spot in the world rankings regardless of Sunday’s final result, remained calm early in the fourth set. He broke Tsonga in the second game, and held serve throughout the set to keep the dangerous Tsonga under constant pressure. On match point, Djokovic served a wicked slice serve wide in the deuce court that Tsonga sailed long. Djokovic will face the winner of the Andy Murray-Rafael Nadal semifinal match. Analysis from the match follows; join the conversation in the comments section below.




Fourth Set Djokovic 6, Tsonga 3
 Novak Djokovic rode an early fourth set service break to win the set and the match against Jo Wilfried Tsonga. He advances to his first Wimbledon final.  Djokovic gets out of a love 30 hole with awesome groundstrokes that frustrate Tsonga. It was a missed opportunity for Tsonga. Djokovic closing in now. Can Tsonga lift his game again? I’d bet on it! Give Djokovic credit for keeping his wits about him after Tsonga’s exhilarating performance at the end of the third set. Novak took advantage of a drop in energy by Tsonga to break then hold to go up 3 love. Djokovic is the steadier hand, but Tsonga’s explosiveness adds an unpredictable element to the match. An exciting contrast, a bit like the tortoise and the hare. Tsonga breaks back with boldness and aggression, then rides the crowd’s energy to an 11-9 win in the tiebreaker to force a fourth set. His serve has come back, as he hit several unreturnable bombs to wrest the third set from Djokovic. Tsonga saved two match points. He is an electrifying player when his energy is flowing. He is a very dangerous player now. Novak Djokovic let Tsonga up off the mat; we have a match now! Djokovic steadies his nerves and comes back at Tsonga with a strong hold, then breaks serve by forcing groundstroke errors. It’s been a consistent strategy for Djokovic: pin Tsonga behind the baseline and make the shotmaking Frenchman work and grind. Tsonga has all too often gone for a winner and narrowly missed. Djokovic’s movement makes Tsonga try to play his shots a little too close to the lines. Djokovic now serves for the match. Djokovic falters serving at 4-3, missing two forehands and an overhead in a loose game that revives Tsonga. He holds with energy and the match is back on! The point at 1 all, love 15 with Tsonga serving will make every highlight film in the world. After a Tsonga drop shot, Djokovic ripped a forehand pass up the line that a diving Tsonga angled crosscourt. Djokovic lunged then leapt after the ball, playing a backhand into the open court. Tsonga, still on the ground, somehow stretched and got a racket on the ball. It landed long, as the crowd roared at the acrobatic feats of both players. Djokovic went on to secure the early service break and is cruising towards a straight set win. He will push to win quickly, hoping to conserve energy. Tsonga, down two breaks, puts up little resistance as Djokovic holds for a two sets to love lead. Djokovic is just too solid for Tsonga, who can’t find a way to put Djokovic under any sustained pressure. This is the time in a match where the player with the lead often suffers a lapse. Federer did, and Tsonga came alive after an early service break. But he will have to get more juice on his serve to have a chance. Djokovic earns the second service break with great returning and shot selection. Hard to see how Tsonga can get back into this match. Nadal said that coming back from two sets down was like climbing a mountain, but on grass it “was only half a mountain.” Tsonga did it against Federer, of course, but Djokovic returns serve better than Fed. Too, Tsonga’s serving is erratic today. He looks flat now as the match wears on. Like Rafael Nadal, Djokovic is a master at the subtle but lethal art of going for the jugular with an early service break. A dispirited Tsonga, still reeling from having let the first set slip away, played a loose couple of points to let Djokovic break serve. The feel of the match is all Djokovic now as his nerves have calmed and he’s taking it out of Tsonga like a boxer pounding his opponent in the ribs. Tsonga needs to raise his level or he’s looking at going down two sets to love in a hurry. Djokovic dodged a bullet to win the all-important first set. Tsonga’s dominating first serve is not landing consistently, and Djokovic is getting the ball in play almost every point on Tsonga’s return. As the points get longer, Djokovic grows in confidence while Tsonga looks to end the points sooner. The court coverage of Djokovic is superb. And he’s grown very stingy with unforced errors. A big change in momentum after the break at 5-4.  Djokovic moved to love 40 as Tsonga served for the first set, but Tsonga brought it back to deuce with a deft half volley followed by two big serves. At deuce, he missed his first serve then went for a huge second serve but double faulted. What a gamble! But it gave Novak another break point. We could be heading for a tiebreaker. Djokovic looks much more assured and confident now. Djokovic had double break point but missed an easy forehand wide. Tsonga then served his way out of the jam to hold. Tsonga, after securing the early break, has not threatened to break again. But he serves for the first set at 5-4. Tsonga held on an acrobatic point that saw him dive for a forehand volley then recover to play a quick jumping backhand volley. Djokovic incredulous at Tsonga’s athleticism. But Novak holds with ease as Tsonga struggles with his forehand return, especially in the deuce court. Tsonga saves a break point with a brave backhand down the line winner, then holds to go up 2-0. Djokovic holds easily as both players appear to be settling into the match. Bright, sunny day at Center Court. Look for more breaks of serve, as both players are getting good looks at returns so far. Tsonga breaks to begin the match! Djokovic served 6 straight serves at Tsonga’s forehand, but the Frenchman mixes underspin chips with powerful cuts at the ball to throw Djokovic off rhythm. Journalists from The New York Times and The International Herald Tribune (along with a few dedicated fans) are following the Grand Slam tournaments, on and off the court. They will provide updates, insights, links and analysis while setting the scene from the stands as well as the press room. 
			This blog’s regular features, including live tournament analysis, news and notes from Christopher Clarey, Ben Rothenberg and others, and other coverage, can now be found on the tennis section front.Read more… 
			Venus Williams, ranked No. 63, beat No. 2 Victoria Azarenka in Tokyo on Tuesday, her first win over a player in the top two since 2009.Read more… 
			The United States learned on Wednesday that it would host a first-round tie with Britain for the 2014 Davis Cup.Read more… 
			According to one celebrity marketing index, Andy Murray is the most appealing of the so-called Big Four in men’s tennis. Read more… 
			Sloane Stephens walked the runway Thursday night in the Just Dance With Boy Meets Girl fashion show, modeling the designs of Stacy Igel.Read more… Advertisement