Advertisement  AP Bob Boone hit a two-run single in the seventh inning tonight to boost the California Angels over the Boston Red Sox, 3-2, and frustrate Boston's attempt to grab a share of the American League East lead. The Red Sox lost for the fourth time in five games and remained one game behind division-leading Detroit. The Tigers have lost 9 of 11 but Boston has failed to take advantage. Boone snapped an 0-for-12 slump with his hit, foiling Bruce Hurst's chance for his eighth straight victory. Hurst (16-5) took a 2-1 lead into the seventh but walked Tony Armas to start the inning. George Hendrick sacrificed and Mike Brown singled Armas to third. Advertisement Hurst made a belated pickoff throw to first and Larry Parrish's throw back to third was wild, allowing Brown to take second. Boone singled up the middle, scoring both runners. Advertisement Jim Rice had given the Red Sox a 2-1 lead with a bases-empty homer, his 11th, in the fourth off Chuck Finley (9-12). Boston took a 1-0 lead in the first when Mike Greenwell singled to score Marty Barrett, who had singled and moved to second on an infield out. The Angels made it 1-1 with an unearned run in the second. Armas's single scored Chili Davis, who reached second on Jody Reed's two-base throwing error.  Brewers 5, Tigers 0 DETROIT (AP) - Bill Wegman pitched a four-hitter for his first career shutout and Bill Schroeder hit a two-run homer as Milwaukee handed Detroit ninth loss in 11 games.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Brewers pulled within six games of Detroit with their fourth straight victory. Milwaukee has won five games against the Tigers in the last 12 days. Wegman (11-11) ended a five-game losing streak for his first victory since July 19. Wegman, who was 3-1 against the Tigers last year, struck out five and walked five. Frank Tanana (14-9), who missed his last scheduled start with a tight left shoulder, was tagged for three runs on five hits in four and a third innings.  Twins 6, Royals 3 MINNEAPOLIS (AP) - Dan Gladden had three hits, including a run-scoring triple, and Kirby Puckett hit a home run, his 22d, as Minnesota beat Kansas City. Advertisement Allan Anderson (13-8) won for the seventh time in eight decisions. He went five and a third innings and gave up three runs. Jeff Reardon pitched one and two-thirds innings for his 34th save.  Braves 2, Pirates 1 ATLANTA (AP) - Jeff Blauser, a rookie, hit a run-scoring double in the ninth to break a tie. The loss was the Pirates' eighth in 11 games and third in a row. It dropped them eight and a half games behind the Mets. The Braves ended a four-game losing streak.  Expos 10, Giants 0 MONTREAL (AP) - Andres Galarraga hit two homers and drove in five runs, and Bryn Smith pitched a two-hitter for six innings. Galarraga hit a two-run homer in the first and a three-run shot in the sixth as he tied a career high for runs batted in in a game and raised his home-run total this season to 26. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 3, 1988, on Page 1001046 of the National edition with the headline: Baseball; Red Sox Again Fail To Gain on Tigers.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »