Advertisement By ROBIN FINN and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES Every morning, Thomas Muster of Austria walks two blocks toward center court from the apartment he is renting near Roland Garros. He selected the apartment in order to be very close to the object of his desire, the French Open championship. The fax machine he uses to receive his business correspondence and the Vienna newspapers provide his only link with the outside world because, for the two weeks of this tournament, Muster wants to think of nothing else but how to go about winning it. ''I've learned in my career that it's better not to lose,'' said Muster, who tinges his commentary with sarcasm and his shots with topspin, and serves up heavy doses in both cases. Before he leaves for the stadium, he eats a meal that's packed with vitamins and untainted by additives, a health-food feast prepared by his trainer, Willi Dingl, the same therapist who helped him rebuild his left knee after a drunken driver mangled it last year in a Miami parking lot. On the Friday night on which he was injured, Muster had stopped for a midnight snack after winning a match against Yannick Noah that advanced him into a final against Ivan Lendl, a final he never got to play. These days, Muster, who today became a French Open semifinalist by defeating Goran Ivanisevic of Yugoslavia, 6-2, 4-6, 6-4, 6-3, doesn't wander out for celebratory snacks. Instead, he eats in, and eats right. Advertisement Doing 'Everything Possible' ''We're trying hard to be perfect about the preparation,'' said Muster, ''and this way I can know that no matter what happens, I can say to myself that I've done everything possible to win.'' Advertisement If his preparation for this tournament seems unorthodox and monastic, the 22-year-old Muster doesn't notice it. He is, after all, a devout noncomformist: on the day the tournament officials requested him to make his post-match contribution to the random drug-testing program, Muster accused them of looking with suspicion on any player who happens to shine here, then said ''cheers'' and complied. Six years ago, Muster, a teen-ager on a mission, decided to defy what he perceived as a tradition of underachievement among his nation's tennis players. He dropped out of the training program administered by Austria's sports federation, and with his mentor, Ronald Leitgeb, embarked on a fierce training program of his own. Defying the Doubters Muster was ranked sixth in the world when the ligaments in his left knee were severed on the night of his victory against Noah. The injury required surgery, a cast, a 12-month recovery prognosis and plenty of precautionary remarks regarding his chances of ever walking normally again, much less playing tennis at the elite level. Muster avoided the naysayers and began his rehabilitation. He built up his upper body and, with his left leg braced by a special bench, he kept tennis in his training regimen by competing against a ball machine.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Last year, he went to the Italian Open on crutches; this year he won it. Last year, he hobbled to the French Open on crutches and earned his keep doing color commentary for Austrian television; this year he wields the most imposing clay-court record of any man in Paris, 31-5, and today Ivanisevic compared him to Bjorn Borg, a six-time French champion. ''He cannot miss; he's like Borg,'' said the 18-year-old Ivanisevic, who also paid Muster's rehabilitative efforts the ultimate compliment. ''Every point, he's into it. He's too fit.'' Overcoming 16 Aces Ivanisevic said he was praying for rain during their match as a respite from the noisy, numbing pelting of topspin he received from Muster, who delivers his shots with the finesse of a battering ram. With the exception of the second set, Muster wore the Yugoslav down by making him race from corner to corner and by returning his thunderclap serve whenever possible. The 16 aces that streaked by him were, said Muster, impossible to contain. Advertisement Muster's opponent in Friday's semifinal is Andres Gomez of Ecuador, who finally ended his record of futility in Grand Slam quarterfinals by ending Thierry Champion's run in straight sets, 6-3, 6-3, 6-4. In his three previous quarterfinal outings here, Gomez was ambushed by Lendl, and he predicted great things for himself at the 1990 French Open once he knew Lendl was not going to play here. Muster defeated Gomez in the semifinals at Rome last month, but Gomez, a clay-court artisan, said winning this tournament is inspiration enough to achieve a different result against the Austrian. ''I have aimed at playing this tournament for 12 months,'' said Gomez, who received a fourth-round walkover and hasn't yet had a taxing match. ''I'm fresh, my head is clean, everything seems to be clicking.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 7, 1990, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: Battling Back From Knee Surgery, Muster Gains Paris Semifinals.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »