Advertisement By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY and  "Arazi, an American Star," read the headlines in the French racing forms on the eve of today's Prix Omnium II. And when Arazi reached the paddock before his first race as a 3-year-old, he received an American star's welcome: scores of television cameras, boom microphones and flashes going off in rapid succession. Minutes later, Arazi calmly and impressively lived up to his billing, winning by five lengths over a grass course softened by overnight rain at the Hippodrome de Saint Cloud. The race, at 1,600 meters, or slightly less than a mile, will be his only warm-up before the Kentucky Derby on May 2. "Barring bad luck, he should win," said jockey Steve Cauthen, who today rode the Kentucky-born chestnut colt in competition for the first time. "Today he was 75 percent, if that." Arazi, a chestnut son of Blushing Groom, became an instant Kentucky Derby favorite last November, when he exploded from next-to-last place to win the Breeders' Cup Juvenile in Louisville, Ky. Eighth Victory in Nine Starts Advertisement In today's race, he came from behind again to win for the eighth time in nine starts. Entering the turn, he was sixth in the eight-horse field; coming out of the turn, he was fourth. But once the leaders hit the final straightaway, the outcome became glaringly apparent. Advertisement Arazi took to the outside, then smoothly and effortlessly galloped into the lead past his stablemate, Carson Bay, about a quarter of a mile from the finish. Cauthen never came close to using his whip as Arazi crossed the finish line in 1 minute 48 seconds, comfortably ahead of Supermec and River Majesty. "Arazi's a horse very much like Affirmed," said Cauthen, who rode Affirmed to the Triple Crown in 1978. "He can switch it on and off. Obviously, we didn't want him to hit the front too soon. But as soon as he hits the front, he doesn't pull up. He just relaxes." Relaxed appears to be the word for Arazi, who likes to take naps after lunch and does not bat an eye over intercontinental flights or overaggressive cameramen. 'Potentially Upsetting Situation' "That was a potentially upsetting situation today before the race, and he handled it beautifully," said Francois Boutin, his French trainer. "He proved again that he has a marvelous equanimity." The victory also proved that Arazi is suffering no ill effects from the arthroscopic surgery that was performed on his front knees four days after the Breeders' Cup. Because of that operation to remove bone spurs, Arazi did not resume full training in France until the middle of February.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "I think the horse has improved his strength," Boutin said. "The long break did him a service. I was rather worried about starting again, but then about two weeks ago, I became very relaxed because he rediscovered the action and rhythm he had as a 2-year-old. It happened because we are patient and because he is very, very good." Boutin chose to race Arazi at Saint Cloud in part because it is the only major French track where horses run counterclockwise, as they do in the United States. Boutin also entered three of his other horses in the race. Two of those, Carson Bay and Akiko, were there only to set the pace for their more illustrious stablemate. "I'm very satisfied with Arazi today," Boutin said. "He did better than I anticipated, but the next time, he will be 30 percent better." Advertisement The next time, of course, will be at Churchill Downs when Arazi will attempt to become the first French-trained horse to win the Derby. Although Arazi has never raced farther than a mile and one-sixteenth, Boutin is confident that his horse can handle the mile-and-a-quarter Derby and whatever lies beyond. "I think I made a mistake early in his career by having him run so many short races," Boutin said. "He's made for a mile and a half or more. He's got a lot of French blood in him, and that means he can handle distance." The question is whether Arazi will be attempting those distances in the United States with jockey Pat Valenzuela, or in Europe with Cauthen. If Arazi wins in Kentucky, his American co-owner, Allen E. Paulson, wants him to race for the Triple Crown. But Arazi's other owner, Sheik Mohammed bin Rashid al Maktoum, the Defense Minister of Dubai, wants the colt to return to Europe and prepare for the Epsom Derby in England on June 3. Both owners were in attendance on Tuesday, but neither would predict the horse's future. "We're in complete agreement that we will see what happens in Kentucky and then decide," Paulson said. "We're grown men. I'm sure we're capable of doing what's best for the horse." For the moment, what is certain is that Arazi will train on a private dirt track at least twice before boarding a private cargo plane for Louisville about a week before the Derby. Upon arrival, he will again be surrounded by cameras and microphones. "I think this horse has captured the imagination of the press world and the racing world," Paulson said. "I've never seen anything like it in my life." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 1992, on Page B00007 of the National edition with the headline: HORSE RACING; Arazi Lives Up to Billing in Derby Warm-Up.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »