Advertisement By ROBIN FINN and  Gabriela Sabatini, the young woman who kick-starts her motorcycle with the aplomb of a motocross veteran, has ceased to be intimidated by stardom, by tennis, by her high-profile self. And all of that boldness was reflected on a sunbaked stadium court today as she successfully defended her Family Circle Magazine Cup title by riding roughshod over Conchita Martinez in their largely one-sided 6-1, 6-4 final. "If you're afraid, you're not going to win," said Sabatini, who no longer feels fear when she takes to the tennis court and only rarely feels the wrong kind of tension once the competition starts. "It can happen with some opponents, the tense feeling, but I didn't have it today," she said after improving her record against the eighth-ranked Spaniard to 6-2. "I'm thinking more on the court, and I always go with a good study sheet to my matches," said Sabatini, who in the past was accused of letting her instincts take the place of a scouting report, a tactic that sometimes backfired when she was called upon to improvise. Advertisement The 21-year-old Argentine, who is ranked No. 3 in the world, gained her third Kraft Tour title of 1992 by pummeling the 19-year-old Martinez, who wound up as runner-up in a 1992 final for a third consecutive time, with a methodical mixture of hardy topspin and deceptive drop shots that seemed the stuff of sorcery. Advertisement "That made the difference. When I had to come to net, I did it well," said Sabatini, who missed just 4 of the 28 points she tackled at the net. Also, Sabatini got some assistance from the repeated misfiring of Martinez's sole weapon, her full-bodied forehand. Martinez committed 32 unforced errors, more than twice as many as Sabatini, and 21 of them emanated on the forehand side. Sabatini wasn't surprised by that development. "She misses more with her forehand because she takes more risks with it," said Sabatini, who spent sufficient years on the receiving end of Steffi Graf's formidable forehand to be undaunted by the prospect of facing Martinez's best shot.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In the first set, Sabatini took total control almost by default; her opponent simply offered no resistance. "I made many mistakes, I didn't move right, and I felt tired. I don't know why," said Martinez, who had beaten Sabatini on clay three years ago in their only previous meeting in a final. "I didn't expect to play so bad in the first set, and in the second, I started to move and hit the ball, but it was too late." Sabatini opened the match today with a double-fault, but made a speedy recovery, jumping to a 5-1 lead when Martinez sent a backhand wide at break point of the sixth game. Sabatini then faced her only break point of the set, a problem she defused with a big first serve that she followed up with the quick slash of a forehand volley winner. Martinez was more purposeful in the second set, and although her effort turned out to be in vain, it did cause Sabatini some concern once her 3-1 advantage evaporated into a 3-3 deadlock. Martinez used three variations on her forehand, a pass down-the-line, a volley and an unanswered blast to the corner, to hold serve in the fifth game, and then pushed Sabatini to a double break point, which she surrendered with a double-fault. "I was a little worried then, especially when she had a few advantages for 5-3," said Sabatini, who nullified them by forcing a pair of backhand mistakes. Sabatini stretched, scooped and dropped a brilliant forehand volley across the net to break Martinez's serve and take a 5-4 lead, and then, after recovering from a 0-40 deficit, she ended the match with another stunning volley. MATCH POINTS In the doubles final, ARANTXA SANCHEZ VICARIO and NATALYA ZVEREVA defeated top-seeded JANA NOVOTNA and LARISA SAVCHENKO-NELAND, 6-4, 6-2. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 6, 1992, on Page C00002 of the National edition with the headline: TENNIS; Sabatini Controls Her Fear and Finishes Off Martinez.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »