Advertisement By KAREN CROUSEJUNE 18, 2014
 PINEHURST, N.C. —  Keeping up with the 17-year-old Lydia Ko has been a chore for the sexagenarian caddie Mike Cowan. After a nine-hole practice round on Wednesday in extreme heat, Cowan fell a few paces behind when he stopped to pose with another caddie who requested to have a photo taken with him. Ko, a New Zealander of South Korean descent, won her first professional event as a 14-year-old amateur. Ranked No. 3 in the world, she can become the youngest player of either gender to ascend to No. 1 with a victory at the United States Women’s Open this weekend. Though named to Time magazine’s 2014 list of the 100 most influential people, Ko happily ceded the spotlight to Cowan, who was approached repeatedly by autograph seekers during their practice rounds.   “I think personally he’s more famous than me,” Ko said. Cowan, who caddied for Tiger Woods early in Woods’s professional career, has been working for Jim Furyk for almost as long as Ko has been alive. After shepherding Furyk to a tie for 12th in the men’s Open last week, Cowan was back at Pinehurst No. 2 barely 12 hours later to meet Ko, whose first seven months as a pro have been a mixed bag.   In 12 starts in 2014, she has finished no worse than seventh (six times) and has one victory, the Swinging Skirts L.P.G.A. Classic in San Francisco in April. Her consistency inside the ropes has belied the upheaval in her inner circle. Since making her debut at the tour’s season-ending event in November, Ko has cycled through several caddies and parted ways with the New Zealand-based swing instructor, Guy Wilson, with whom she had worked for more than a decade. Her new coaches are the Orlando, Fla.-based David Leadbetter and his protégé, Sean Hogan. Advertisement Ko said the split with Wilson, who wore many hats — coach, caddie, big brother figure — was a simple matter of geography, the die cast when she decided to make Florida her home base. Advertisement “If I was going to play here full-time, it was going to be hard to see him,” she said, adding, “That’s why we were looking for some options.” When it comes to settling on a caddie, Ko is content to speed date until she finds the perfect match. “If I feel a big connection with a caddie, that’s a big thing,” she said. “And a lot of the things I need to take ownership and do myself. But hopefully I’ll be able to find a permanent caddie along the way.” One change Ko said she was not prepared to make is her national affiliation. Rory McIlroy, of Northern Ireland, made headlines on Wednesday when he said he would represent Ireland in the 2016 Summer Games. As an Ulsterman, he was also eligible to represent Britain. Ko faces a different, but no less difficult, decision.   Her birth country of South Korea has a considerable TV and corporate following in women’s golf. Ko’s popularity and marketability no doubt would be enhanced if she were to renounce her ties to New Zealand — where she has lived since she was 5 — and compete as a South Korean. Inbee Park, a three-time major winner in 2013 from South Korea, said, “I would say, definitely, Korean fans follow Korean players more than New Zealand.”   Danny Lee, a South Korean-born New Zealander who has made 62 PGA Tour starts, said he had been asked if he would change his national affiliation in time for the 2016 Olympics. It would not surprise him, he said, if Ko were wrestling with the same issue.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “I’m pretty sure it’s tough for Lydia because she’s playing so well, I think every country wants her,” Lee said at a tour stop last month in Charlotte, N.C. “I think it’s the same question as ‘Do you like your mom better or your dad better?’ ” Ko’s mother, Tina, said, “We don’t think like that.” Ko said she was happy playing for New Zealand, adding: “But at the same time, when somebody looks at me, they’re not going to think, ‘Oh, she’s a New Zealander.’ I am Korean, you know, you can see. But I think Korea and New Zealand is both in me.” Advertisement Ko’s personality is conflict-averse. On Monday, after introducing herself to Cowan with a hello and a handshake, she handed him two rimmed caps bearing the logo for Callaway, one of her sponsors, and asked that he wear them. Beyond that, she has made few demands, said Cowan, known as Fluff. “She’s easy to get along with,” he said, adding: “She’s a young woman but she’s also very mature in her golf. She’s not your typical 17-year-old is what I’d guess I’d say.” The scouting report Cowan received from his cronies was that Ko was essentially a younger, female version of Furyk: straight off the tee and with no glaring weaknesses. So, of course, on Monday the first drive Ko hit with Cowan went awry. “It’s golf,” Cowan said, shrugging. “If you hit it where you were looking every single time, you’d probably win every week.” After Ko won the Canadian Women’s Open twice as an amateur, some people expected her to dominate the L.P.G.A. Tour. She was among those who anticipated  instant success. Only recently has she added “failure” to her vocabulary.   Before the first major of the season, the Kraft Nabisco Championship, she said: “Sometimes it is hard to play, especially with the expectations and stuff. I kind of put self-pressure in there, which is not ideal.” Ko tied for 29th. Three weeks later, her one-stroke victory over Stacy Lewis in San Francisco allowed her to exhale. “When I feel pressure is probably the self-expectation,” Ko said. “I know I’m going to have good days and I’m also going to have average days,” she added. “Every failure I make I can learn from my mistake and make it into a success later.” A version of this article appears in print on June 19, 2014, on Page B18 of the New York edition with the headline: Rising Star Adds Another Weapon to Her Bag.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »