Advertisement By ROBIN FINN The United States Davis Cup Team, scheduled to begin defense of its 1990 championship in less than three weeks, does not yet exist, and Tom Gorman, the captain, has spent the last week scouring the field of the Newsweek Champions Cup for recruits. But little that has happened here has calmed his nerves. Those veterans who want to play Davis Cup cannot commit themselves, and those Gorman wants to enlist for singles duty will not commit themselves. Rick Leach and Jim Pugh, who won in Philadelphia two weeks ago but lost here in the opening round, are undefeated in Davis Cup competition (4-0) and will again be responsible for doubles. Nobody has claimed either of the two singles spots, but John McEnroe, the headliner on four winning American teams, made a point of announcing that nobody had bothered to ask him to compete. Advertisement "I'm just happy I was part of four winning teams, so that way I don't have to feel as bad about not being part of the present team," McEnroe said after being upset here by Jim Grabb in the second round.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But right now, Gorman, who has an uneasy relationship with McEnroe and has expressed preference for bringing along younger Davis Cup prospects, sees the selection process in a medical light. Pete Sampras, Brad Gilbert, Aaron Krickstein and Jay Berger, for example, are all on the injured list. Krickstein and Gilbert are wearing air casts; Berger is recovering from surgery that renders him unavailable for the next six months, and Sampras is hobbled by another leg injury that has the 19-year-old United States Open champion -- and his admirers -- fearing for his future. Advertisement Andre Agassi and Krickstein were Gorman's original designees for the first-round match in Mexico City in late January, but the war in the Persian Gulf led to the postponement of the match until March 29-31, the dates initially scheduled for second-round action. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 10, 1991, on Page 8008001 of the National edition with the headline: Davis Cup: Help Wanted.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »