Advertisement By WILLIAM C. RHODEN When organizers of the preseason Big Apple National Invitation Tournament were questioned about the haphazard process for selecting sites for second-round games, they explained that the idea was simply to bring the four best teams to Madison Square Garden for the semifinals and final this week. It took some doing but the organizers got most of their wish. Syracuse, Indiana, North Carolina and Missouri survived and will compete in the semifinal round tonight. The championship game will be played Friday night. North Carolina will play Missouri at 7 P.M., then Syracuse and Indiana, who played for the 1987 National Collegiate Athletic Association championship, will follow. Louisville Is Upset The N.I.T. organizers had anticipated Louisville's presence instead of Missouri in the semifinals, but the Cardinals were upset by Xavier of Ohio in the opening round. Advertisement Since the tournament is not bracketed, Xavier had to wait until the other first-round games ended before the N.I.T. committee paired teams with sites. Advertisement After an early-morning conference call last Saturday, Xavier received orders to go to Missouri for Sunday's second-round game. Wyoming, which beat Southern Methodist University at Wyoming, was instructed to fly to Syracuse. Stanford, which defeated Montana, flew from Missoula, Mont., to Indiana, and Georgia went to North Carolina.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In Sunday's games, Missouri defeated Xavier, 83-71; Syracuse routed Wyoming, 102-81; Indiana handled Stanford, 84-73, and North Carolina beat Georgia, 99-91. That set up tonight's games, including the Indiana-Syracuse rematch. Indiana defeated Syracuse in the N.C.A.A. final two seasons ago, 74-73. There were 24 lead changes and the score was tied 13 times. The Hoosiers finally won on a basket by Keith Smart with five seconds left in the game. And the victory gave Bobby Knight, the Indiana coach, his third N.C.A.A. championship. New Cast of Characters Indiana has no starters back from that team while Syracuse has two, Sherman Douglas, a guard, and Derrick Coleman, a forward. ''I remember that game,'' recalled Jim Boeheim, the Syracuse coach. ''When the season starts, I don't think a day goes by when I don't think about it. But I have good memories about the game. I don't think we lost it, they just won it.'' While the Missouri-North Carolina matchup lacks the history of the other game, it is a classic battle of speed against power. North Carolina, despite the absence of J. R. Reid, has tremendous power while Missouri, with four starters back from last season, has impressive speed. Reid, the Tar Heels' 6-foot-9-inch, 250-pound junior forward, suffered a stress fracture during the Olympics and will be lost at least until January. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 23, 1988, on Page A00021 of the National edition with the headline: N.I.T.; Syracuse-Indiana in Rematch.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »