Advertisement By MICHAEL MARTINEZ and  He is supposed to be the Yankees' next 20-game winner, but tonight, in his season debut, Chuck Cary became another of their one-game losers. Welcome to the club. Like two of his teammates, Cary could not hold a substantial lead. And after he stumbled to a 9-5 loss to the Kansas City Royals, Cary conceded that the pressure of fulfilling high expectations had taken a toll. In the spring, pitching coach Mark Connor said Cary was capable of winning 20 games this season. Cary appreciated the remarks, but he said in the aftermath tonight that they were beginning to weigh heavily on him. Pressure in April? "I do feel the pressure of those expectations," he said. "I'm not saying I've got to win this game so that I can win 19 more. Tonight was just a bad night. It's not like they were rattling the ball off the wall." Advertisement But they were doing enough. Cary could not hold a 3-0 lead in the second inning, giving it back almost as quickly as he got it. Then he gave up four more and was gone before the fourth was complete. Advertisement In each of their three losses this season, the Yankee starters -- Tim Leary, Dave Eiland and now Cary -- have lost leads. But panic has not set in yet, even though the situation probably warrants some concern. Those three have combined to give up 16 runs in 13 1/3 innings. "It's still early," Manager Stump Merrill said. "You don't like to see that happen, but we'll get it ironed out." The place to begin would probably be Cary's psyche. He has carried Connor's words with him since February, and they have undoubtedly had some kind of effect. "When people give me compliments, I take them because I don't get many," Cary said. "But I do feel pressure." Connor said: "There's pressure in this game every day. You're only as good as your last outing. But the pressure that people put on you shouldn't be as great as the pressure you put on yourself. "I know he's a better pitcher than he showed tonight. He's going to be fine." 3 Hits for Espinoza While Cary struggled, though, the Yankee offense continued to show signs of sustained life. Matt Nokes hit a two-run double in the second inning, and Alvaro Espinoza -- back in the starting lineup after a two-game absence -- added a run-scoring single, the first of three hits. He drove in two.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Beautiful; I needed that," Espinoza said. "Hopefully, I'll keep doing it, and maybe I'll be in the lineup tomorrow." He will. Merrill, who had sat an angry Espinoza after starting him in the season opener, said: "That's the way I like to see people respond. He'll be in there." Advertisement But the 3-0 lead that Espinoza helped provide was only momentary. Cary walked Kirk Gibson to start the bottom of the third, and it led to trouble. One-out singles by Kurt Stillwell and Gary Thurman loaded the bases, and then Terry Shumpert drew a walk to force in a run. Kevin Seitzer's single with two outs tied the score. "I was just absolutely awful," Cary said. "Everything they hit was finding holes. I was missing with my fastball high, and I was missing with it in the bullpen. There were times when I tried to bounce the ball in the dirt and it was high. "There are no excuses. I can just flush this one away. Our trainer, Gene Monahan, could have pitched as well as I did." Cary fumbled through the third and then left in the fourth, but by then it was already 7-3, and another lead had been squandered. INSIDE PITCH PHIL RIZZUTO, peacemaker? Could be. Rizzuto, the former Yankee shortstop and current WPIX-TV broadcaster, did his part tonight to resolve the apparent chasm between the disgruntled shortstop ALVARO ESPINOZA and Manager STUMP MERRILL. Before the game, Rizzuto pulled Espinoza into a room off the trainer's room to offer a pep talk. It helped, but so did the fact Espinoza was back in the starting lineup. Afterward, Espinoza sounded flattered that Rizzuto had taken time to console and encourage him. "It was nice," he said. "He made me feel great. He said it was the first time he came down here, and it was just to see me." Rizzuto said he was acting as a kind of mediator, hoping he could get Espinoza and Merrill together to sort out their differences. But he said that Merrill had already written himself a note to call in Espinoza. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 13, 1991, on Page 1001033 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Cary a 20-Game Winner? He Has Only 20 More to Go.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »