Advertisement By THOMAS GEORGE and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES You might find Greg Townsend in the Los Angeles Raiders' locker room before practice puffing on a cigarette or in solitude after drills, mulling over his day's work. The 6-foot-3-inch, 250-pound Townsend is a big man with a big smile who likes to be left alone. And that is just how the Denver Broncos found the defensive end in the Coliseum this afternoon. All alone. Early in the third quarter, Townsend, at the Raiders' 14, plucked John Elway's second-and-7 swing pass on a play that began at the Raiders' 8 and raced for a touchdown that built the Raiders' lead to 21-0. Townsend's dash proved decisive as Los Angeles held off Denver for a 21-20 victory before 65,561 that kept the Raiders in contention for the American Conference West title. ''Townsend made a great play because he was lined up over the guard and got out in the flat and then ran scot-free,'' said Elway, who showed just how confused he was over the play, because Townsend said he was aligned outside the left tackle. Advertisement ''I had seen them in films run that play to the running back flaring out of the backfield,'' Townsend explained, ''so I took a chance and went out there with him. Elway had better have thrown it there, or I would have been in big trouble. I was supposed to rush Elway all the way.'' Three-Way Tie Advertisement The Raiders and the Broncos are both 7-7, as are the Seattle Seahawks, and the three teams are bunched atop the A.F.C. West with two games left. The Raiders play at Buffalo, then host Seattle; the Broncos play at Seattle, then host the New England Patriots. Early in the season, Townsend, a seventh-year man from Texas Christian, was suspended for 30 days for violating the league's substance-abuse policy. Returning from the suspension, Townsend said he was dedicated to making this season his best. He leads the Raiders in sacks and has scored a touchdown in two consecutive games (he recovered a fumble in the end zone last Monday night against Seattle). ''I have a lot of respect for Denver - they've been to two straight Super Bowls - but I think they're just burned out,'' Townsend said. ''They're on their last leg.'' Townsend was in the Denver backfield often from his position at left defensive end, creating havoc for the Broncos, who looked painfully lost in the first half. Trailing by 14-0 at halftime, the Broncos' offense could do little but improve. But the Raiders were not quite ready for how much Denver's offense would rebound. Broncos Work Back Denver maintained possession for 11 minutes 6 seconds in the third, trailing by 21-13 at the end of the quarter as Rich Karlis booted 29- and 36-yard field goals and Clarence Kay scored on a 6-yard catch. The Broncos made it 21-20 with 10:13 remaining in the final quarter on Kay's 4-yard touchdown catch set up by a perfect Elway toss of 63 yards to Mark Jackson.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The game appeared to be becoming a repeat - reversed - of the Raiders' 30-27 overtime victory earlier this season in Denver. In that game, the Raiders had trailed by 24 points. Denver rode Elway's arm in its comeback attempt today as the quarterback completed 29 of 46 passes for 324 yards, two touchdowns and three interceptions. Jackson made six catches for 138 yards. But the Raiders' defense held in the final stages, and Jay Schroeder was in control, completing 10 of 19 passes for 131 yards. Denver did its part defensively in the first half, but on offense, the Broncos were miserably out of sync. Advertisement Los Angeles, on its first drive, looked as if its Heisman Trophy backfield of Marcus Allen and Bo Jackson plus the heralded Schroeder was finally set to click. Mixing short runs and short passes, the Raiders drove 59 yards in 13 plays, consuming 7:48, for a 7-0 lead. Jackson scored on a bullying 4-yard run, knocking Jim Ryan backward at the Denver 4 and carrying two other Bronco tacklers with him into the end zone. The Raiders' other touchdown in the half was set up by Ron Fellows's interception of Elway with 2:01 remaining. Two plays later, Schroeder dumped a short toss over the middle to Steve Smith, who broke left and scampered 45 yards for the touchdown with 1:44 left. ''We had the chance to win in the end, but the first half killed us,'' said Dan Reeves, the Broncos' coach. Mike Shanahan, in his first season as the Raiders' coach after having been Denver's offensive coordinator, said: ''It is a big thrill to beat them twice. We had to win today. But I feel that way about the next two.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 5, 1988, on Page C00006 of the National edition with the headline: N.F.L.; Raiders Edge Broncos to Stay in Race.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »