Advertisement By MICHAEL JANOFSKY and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES Sports ministers and other officials from more than 100 countries approved by acclamation today an anti-drug charter that establishes guidelines for governments to combat trafficking in and use of performance-enhancing drugs. They also recommended that the International Olympic Committee create a panel of experts to test athletes in any country at any time on short notice. The action, taken during a conference sponsored by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, was merely a statement of support for the I.O.C.'s efforts to fight drug use by athletes. The charter has no means of insuring enforcement. But the ministers' approval indicated a willingness to lobby their respective governments for legislative action that would support the charter and make it easier for the drug-testing panel to carry out its objectives. A 'Global' Fight Advertisement ''This is a big day for the I.O.C.,'' said Alain Coupat, a senior I.O.C official. ''It means Unesco recognizes that the fight against doping must be constructed on a global basis, not by state, and that the I.O.C. is the best organization to direct the fight.'' Advertisement The basic elements of the charter, including guidelines for testing and sanctions, were drawn up five months ago by representatives from 28 countries at a conference in Canada. The idea of creating an itinerant panel of drug testers was an extension of the charter's recommendation that athletes from all countries be subject to testing during training. The panel was viewed as essential but also as a possible impediment to the charter's effectiveness. Visa Recommendation The panel would become a permanent adjunct to the I.O.C. Medical Commission. A team of experts would travel from country to country, testing athletes with little or no notice. The measure approved by the ministers also recommends that governments instantly provide visas upon request to enable members of the panel to conduct tests on short notice.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. It was unclear whether all 167 countries represented in the I.O.C. would follow the charter's recommendations. Some countries have not taken formal action to support the charter and others, like the United States and Britain, do not belong to Unesco. Another important issue is the feasibility and legality in some countries of testing athletes. Some countries test athletes during training and on short notice, but the United States and many others do not. In a separate action last Monday, Soviet and American Olympic officials signed a preliminary agreement to establish an exchange program in which athletes in each country could be tested in training by medical personnel from the other. Tests would be conducted to detect drugs banned by the I.O.C. American and Soviet athletes are now tested only during the Olympics and other major championships. U.S.O.C. vs. the Constitution Implementation of the exchange program is contingent upon the United States Olympic Committee's devising a means to test athletes without violating their civil rights. The Soviet Olympic Committee would have to approve whatever final agreement is reached with American Olympic officials. Advertisement The idea for the panel of testers is no less unusual than its source. Earlier this month in Budapest, at a meeting of sports ministers from 18 Eastern-bloc countries, Soviet officials said their Government would grant multiple-entry visas to all members of such a panel. Currently, only diplomats and foreign journalists are granted similar access to the Soviet Union. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 25, 1988, on Page D00007 of the National edition with the headline: Drug Plan Gains Approval.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »