Advertisement By STEVEN CRIST The New York racing season enjoys a final burst of quality this weekend at Aqueduct. The Remsen and the Demoiselle stakes tomorrow and the Ladies Handicap on Sunday are the last Grade I races in New York until the Wood Memorial on April 22. Tomorrow's two races for 2-year-olds, both at a mile and an eighth, drew unusually strong fields, including the winner of the Breeders' Cup Juvenile Fillies and a colt who might have won the Breeders' Cup Juvenile if he had not been scratched. The $200,000-added Demoiselle for fillies, to be run as tomorrow's seventh race, gives Open Mind a chance to clinch or fumble a title she would have probably won had she called it a year. The Deputy Minister filly, who stormed from far back to beat two fellow D. Wayne Lukas trainees in the Juvenile Fillies Nov. 5, faces none of her victims from that afternoon, but may be meeting just as good a field tomorrow. The best of the new shooters are Capades, the New York-bred filly who won the Grade I Selima Stakes on the grass; Gild, a Woody Stephens-trained Mr. Prospector filly who won the Gardenia at the Meadowlands; Darby's Daughter, who took the Miss Grillo on the Aqueduct turf, and Sez Fourty, a multiple stakes winner in Florida. Advertisement Open Mind, who will be ridden again by Angel Cordero Jr., runs coupled in the betting with Surging, who should help prompt the pace. Advertisement The Remsen for colts drew a field of 16 yesterday, reflecting the lack of respect for any of this year's 2-year-olds save Easy Goer, the likely champion, who is through for the year. His Ogden Phipps stablemate, Fast Play, is the likely favorite tomorrow off a seven-length victory in the Breeders' Futurity at Keeneland Oct. 27. Fast Play was pre-entered for the Breeders' Cup Juvenile but only as insurance in case something went wrong with Easy Goer. Fast Play was scratched, but Easy Goer floundered and finished second to Is It True over a sloppy track that his stablemate might have handled better. Fast Play won his debut on a wet track by 10 lengths at Saratoga. Fast Play, who drew post 12 and gets Cordero, looks like the early speed of the Remsen. He is likely to have early company in a field of 16, though, since those starting from outside posts will have to hurry for position into the first turn. His opponents, from the rail out, are Irish Actor, Spigot, Loyken, Texian, Fire Maker, The Boss, Lorenzoni, Notation, Imbibe, Doc's Leader, Valid Space, Who's to Pay, Silver Sunsets, Shy Tom and My Son J. D.  Lukas vs. McGaughey  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Remsen looks like the final chapter in the year's best training rivalry. Lukas, who will send out Shy Tom and Texian, and Shug McGaughey, who trains Fast Play, have won 14 Grade I stakes races each this year, many of them at each other's expense. McGaughey had been beating Lukas regularly in New York this fall, but Lukas turned most of the tables at the Breeders' Cup, winning three of the seven races while McGaughey came away with just one. Lukas is odds-on to win the Grade I race by year's end, since the Remsen may be McGaughey's final shot. Lukas will have runners in the Remsen, the Demoiselle and the Ladies this weekend and in the Starlet and the Hollywood Juvenile at Hollywood Park next month. The two will also fight it out for the Eclipse Award as the season's outstanding trainer, which Lukas has won three years in a row. Voters face an apples-and-oranges choice. Lukas will once again lead in every statistical category and set some dazzling earnings records, but McGaughey made a run at him with one-fifth as many horses and managed the most successful campaign by a private stable in the history of the sport. He also made Personal Ensign the first undefeated American champion in 80 years.  Another Speedster Easy Goer is not the only sensationally fast 2-year-old in the country this year. King Glorious, a California-based son of the Mr. Prospector stallion Naevus, has been running some spectacular times. King Glorious won his first three starts this summer, including the Hollywood Juvenile Championship in a sizzling 1:08 4/5 for six furlongs. He was sidelined for four months with various ailments, but returned to win the Prevue Stakes at Hollywood last Saturday while running seven furlongs in 1:21 1/5. That clocking was just two-fifths off the track record. King Glorious has the look of a sprinter who may not stretch out to the classic distances of next year's Triple Crown races, but you never know. The Hollywood Futurity at a mile Dec. 18 may provide some clues.  Alysheba's Farewell Advertisement Alysheba, who has been retired to stud, will make a final race-track appearance tomorrow when he is paraded at Churchill Downs, the site of his two greatest triumphs: last year's Kentucky Derby and this year's Breeders' Cup Classic. . . . Icecapade, the sire of Wild Again and grandsire of Lady's Secret, died at Gainesway Farm in Lexington, Ky., last Saturday at the age of 19. . . . Remington Park, the new track in Oklahoma City with the synthetic racing surface, will offer a new Kentucky Derby prep next year. The $250,000 Remington Derby at a mile and a sixteenth will be run March 8. . . . The Japan Cup Nov. 27, offering a purse of about $2 million, is expected to attract Tony Bin, the Arc de Triomphe winner, and the American-based runners My Big Boy, Pay the Butler and Salem Drive. Sunshine Forever, coming off a hard fall campaign, will not make the trip to Tokyo. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 18, 1988, on Page A00024 of the National edition with the headline: Horse Racing Notebook; A Big Afternoon For 2-Year-Olds.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »