Advertisement  One of the coolest coaches in college basketball lost his temper this afternoon, and it contributed mightily to ending the longest home-court winning streak in the country. Behind Don MacLean's 38 points and Darrick Martin's running 12-footer with three-tenths of a second left, and with help from a technical foul assessed to the usually mild-mannered Arizona coach, Lute Olson, second-ranked U.C.L.A. edged sixth-ranked Arizona, 89-87. The Wildcats saw a 71-game home winning streak come to an end. Wayne Womack's off-balance 10-footer with 19 seconds left had tied the score at 87-87 for an Arizona team that rallied from the 7-point deficit that Olson's technical contributed to. But Martin was able to dribble down the clock after a Bruins timeout with 11 seconds left and then convert the winning shot. Advertisement MacLean, who scored 16 of U.C.L.A.'s last 21 points, outdueled Arizona's Chris Mills, who finished with 25 points and 9 rebounds. And it was MacLean's four free throws -- two of them following a technical foul on Olson -- that put U.C.L.A. up, 80-74, with just under six minutes left. Arizona had to play catch-up the rest of the way. Big T for Olsen Advertisement MacLean had been fouled by Khalid Reeves in the act of shooting. Olsen objected to the call and as MacLean went to the line, the referee, Tom Harrington, turned around and hit Olsen with a technical. MacLean hit the two foul shots and the two technical fouls. After the teams traded baskets to open the second half, Arizona went on its best run of the game, a 7-0 spurt highlighted by a Reeves 3-pointer for a 48-42 lead, the biggest of the game. But the Bruins were able to hang tough, using a 7-0 run of their own. The spurt was capped by a Gerald Madkins lay-in on a 4-on-1 break, and U.C.L.A. led again, by 59-58.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. It became apparent early on that the showdown between the two best teams in the West would become a personal shootout between U.C.L.A.'s Don MacLean and Arizona's Chris Mills. Both MacLean and Mills had 15 points and 6 rebounds in a first half that ended with the Bruins leading by 40-39. The first half was extremely tight with neither team leading by more than 5, and there were 12 lead changes and 7 ties. If there was a key moment before intermission, it came with a minute and a half left. More Than Streak on Line U.C.L.A. had taken a 38-36 lead after a 10-5 run when the Bruins' Mitchell Butler missed a layup. Sean Rooks took the ensuing outlet off the break and went to the hoop out of control. Before he traveled, however, Darrick Martin was whistled for a foul, enraging Bruins Coach Jim Harrick, who was assessed a technical. Rooks converted both free throws, Mills made 1 of the 2 technicals, and Arizona led, 40-39, with 1:44 left. The Wildcats seemed to have the momentum, but Gerald Madkins stole the ball from Mills. Madkins later took a perfect feed from MacLean for a bucket and the half's final points. In a game featuring the two teams who have dominated the Pacific-10 conference since the mid-1980's, more than just the streak was on the line. The early lead in the conference, the inside track to a possible West Regional seeding in March, and bragging rights in what has become a fierce rivalry had all been mentioned by both sides in the week preceding the game. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 12, 1992, on Page 8008007 of the National edition with the headline: COLLEGE BASKETBALL; Arizona's 71-Game Home Streak Ends.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »