The most obvious difference between this Knicks’ season and any of the last dozen years are the high expectations. The Knicks are 12-4, second in the Eastern Conference and fifth overall. For the first time in more than a decade, the Knicks could be considered title contenders.  The downside of this transition is that the Knicks lack players who are likely to make major improvements. In pursuit of a championship, the Knicks’ front office acquired a host of veterans on the tail ends of their careers — Jason Kidd, Kurt Thomas, Marcus Camby, Pablo Prigioni, and Rasheed Wallace — and
a third of their roster was born before the Village People released “Y.M.C.A.” That leaves the Knicks with few young players with room to grow. In fact, there really is only one: the 28-year-old rookie Chris Copeland. Little more than a garbage-time player early in the season, Copeland has seen his playing time increase recently. He has played more minutes in the last three games (34) than in his first eight (29). At 6-9, Copeland’s main strength is his ability to create shots. Prior to Sunday his 33.5 percent usage rate, an estimation of how often a player shoots per possession, was second only to Carmelo Anthony.  Copeland’s job is to keep the offense flowing with the second team. He succeeded Sunday against the Suns, hitting 4-of-5 attempts, including a monster put-back dunk. In one possession after a time out, the Knicks drew up a pick-and-roll to Copeland, although Felton was unable to find his teammate for a shot attempt. What was impressive about play was that Anthony had just entered the game and Woodson decided to give Copeland the opportunity to score. To stay more than a fringe roster player, Copeland will have to do more than score. Copeland used to take a shot nearly every time he touched the ball. On Sunday, he was more charitable and notched two assists, both to Novak. He would have had a third, except Novak missed a wide-open 3-pointer. This is a departure shows that perhaps the fledgling forward is expanding his game. Rounding out his game on Sunday, the Knicks’ rookie added a steal and a blocked shot.  At some point in the season, Amar’e Stoudemire is likely to return from injury. Stoudemire’s skill set as scoring big man overlaps Copeland’s, which means that Copeland may not have much time left to show his worth. From Sunday’s game, it appears that Copeland has the ability to become more than a fringe N.B.A. player. But to make that leap, he’ll have to turn that promise into production. Mike Kurylo is the founder and editor of KnickerBlogger.net, a member of ESPN’s True Hoop Network. His book on the 2012 Knicks, “We’ll Always Have Linsanity,” will be released in November.
 
			This blog’s regular features, including live game analysis, reader discussion, news and notes from Howard Beck, Nate Taylor, Beckley Mason and others, can now be found on the Pro Basketball section front.Read more… 
			Jason Kidd threw out the first pitch at Yankee Stadium before Game 2 of the Yankees’ doubleheader against the Dodgers, the latest in a multitude of appearances he has made since the Nets hired him Thursday. Read more… 
			With more speed on the floor, Miami smothered the San Antonio Spurs in Game 4, while the Heat’s two biggest stars, LeBron James and Dwyane Wade broke out.Read more… 
			The hiring of Jason Kidd as head coach may be a victory in the war for New York headlines with the Knicks, but it doesn’t seem to be the smartest decision, says William C. Rhoden.Read more… 
			After a news conference on Thursday announcing that he would not run for mayor of Moscow in the fall, Mikhail D. Prokhorov, the Nets’ owner, also said that there was a shortage of N.B.A. coaches with star power.Read more… Follow Advertisement