Advertisement By MICHAEL JANOFSKY and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES The United States soccer team's long odyssey through the World Cup of 1990 continues Tuesday night in Florence, which in all probability will be the final stop. After losing their first two games, 5-1 to Czechoslovakia and 1-0 to Italy, the Americans play another team without a victory, Austria, in the final first-round match for both teams. Austria has lost by 1-0 to both Italy and Czechoslovakia. It is not impossible that the winner could advance to the second round as one of four teams that join the automatic qualifiers, the leading two teams of each of the six groups. But it's highly unlikely. Asking the Computer Tab Ramos and several of his teammates used a personal computer today to work out some of the Rube Goldbergesque permutations that would enable the American team to go on. One formula required the United States to defeat Austria by at least three goals, in addition to two of five other developments involving 11 other teams sorting themselves out in proper fashion. And that was only one scenario. ''The mathematical possibilities would require Einstein at his best to figure out,'' Bob Gansler, the United States coach, said today before practice. ''We just have to focus on a good performance to try to get the two points that are still out there. Obviously, we have to score a ton of goals to advance.'' Advertisement Although the Americans and the Austrians have similar records, their temperaments may be radically different. As a proud European team, with two of the continent's leading scorers in the recent club season, Toni Polster and Gerhard Rodax, Austria had grand ambitions as the cup finals began. Advertisement Among Early Favorites The team had played impressively in warm-up games, with victories over Spain, Hungary and the Netherlands, and a tie with Argentina. On the eve of play, the Austrians were regarded as no worse than the second-best team in the group, behind Italy, which plays Czechoslovakia Tuesday in Rome to decide first place. But the Austrians' two games have been identical, frustrating affairs, in which opposing midfielders have tangled them up, virtually cutting off Polster and Rodax from their teammates. Polster, who scored 33 goals in the Spanish league, has been limited to a single shot in each game. Rodax, who had 35 goals in the Austrian league, was not used against Italy, a decision Coach Josef Hickersberger later called ''a mistake.'' As a starter against Czechoslovakia, Rodax shot once, the only reasonable scoring opportunity his team had the entire game. At times, Polster's frustration was glaringly evident, as he stood near the penalty box, flapping his arms, imploring his teammates to get him the ball. Not even the use of a third forward, Andreas Ogris, throughout the second half helped the Austrians generate any sort of offense. Teamwide Dismay ''I'm sorely disappointed,'' Polster said after the game last Friday, looking sullen. ''We are all as disappointed in the team. What else can I say? I had expected more from myself and the team.''  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. With the more encouraging result against Italy, a one-goal loss on the world stage of Rome last week, the Americans have seemingly dispelled the frustrations they felt after the opening rout. If anything, the game against Italy provided encouragement and reason to expect better against Austria, even a victory. Testiness in practice has continued, but it doesn't seem to be disruptive, and maybe it's a good sign, considering the physical style of the Austrians. ''Guys are on edge,'' said John Doyle, one of the United States team's defensemen. ''It's the pressure everybody feels in World Cup: the starters, those who aren't playing who want to play. But that's a good way to get us ready to play.'' Advertisement The Americans are also fighting to stave off another possible distraction, the need to perform well to impress scouts for European clubs. The tournament serves as an audition for many players, a chance to show they can play on the first-division level, soccer's big leagues. This may be the Americans' last chance. Overtures Being Made Already, a number of the American players have been contacted, including Ramos and Peter Vermes, who have drawn the interest of a Dutch club; Paul Caligiuri, who has recently heard from Cagliari and Parma of the Italian League, and Doyle, who today was handed the telephone number of a club in Belgium and was told to call. With others eager to have scouts notice them, it would not be hard to imagine how a player might lose interest in team objectives to satisfy his own personal ambition, especially with so fleeting a chance to advance to the second round. ''We've reached the phase,'' Caligiuri said, ''where guys are asking each other what are they going to do after World Cup: Go home? Stay here?'' Gansler said he was all in favor of his players accruing the benefits of their work in Italy. But first things first, which was the subject of a brief meeting with the players on Sunday. ''It's something very natural for them to have on their minds,'' Gansler said. ''That's why I had to address it. Some might feel guilty and not be focused on the next few days.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 19, 1990, on Page B00010 of the National edition with the headline: U.S. Squad Is Awaiting Match With Austria and, Probably, Journey's End.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »