Advertisement Supported by Preview By Richard Sandomir and Ken Belson Keeping a lid on player payrolls in the nation’s top market means different things to the Yankees and the Mets.  The Yankees feigned salary restraint for months to avoid a big luxury-tax hit — until they signed Masahiro Tanaka for $155 million.  But the Mets are acting with almost as much fiscal restraint as the Oakland Athletics and the Tampa Bay Rays, who lack modern stadiums or their own cable TV networks — factors that should enable the Mets to spend more freely. Instead, their 2014 payroll — somewhere short of $90 million — is not much different from last year’s. Yet the team is approaching this season with significant holes in its lineup that could have been addressed through free-agent acquisitions and might have improved the Mets’ long-shot chances to contend for a playoff spot.  The payroll modesty continues even as the Mets — and the 29 other major league teams — will receive equal portions of new television contracts whose annual average payments are doubling this season to $1.5 billion from $750 million, and despite the recent refinancing of a $250 million loan, at a lower rate, that removes the pressure the Mets were under to repay it in full later this year. But even as money is looser and banks are no longer huffing and puffing at the door of the Mets co-owner Fred Wilpon, the Mets seem to be staying cautious about spending.  Last week, General Manager Sandy Alderson said the team’s plan was “a consequence of trying to be somewhat prudent about the money we spend.” Later, he added, “Our goal is to spend money and add payroll every year, not just once every so often, as has been the case the last three or four years.”  It is understandable that Mets fans are restless and frustrated with this approach. Five consecutive losing seasons followed the revelation that Bernard L. Madoff’s multibillion-dollar swindle had devastated the finances of the Mets’ owners. Two years ago, the Mets settled a lawsuit filed by the trustee for Madoff’s victims that had sought as much as $1 billion, accusing Wilpon and others of being willfully blind to warnings that Madoff was engaged in wrongdoing. With that chapter closed, fans expected the Mets to again pursue elite players. Instead, the Mets have continued to stoke suspicions that they remain financially strapped. “When are we going to shake off the Madoff hangover?” Jack Webb, a Mets fan who grew up in the Bronx and lives in Jacksonville, Fla., said at a spring training game last week. “I think they are holding off. They have a fiduciary responsibility to spend money. If it’s about the money, sell the team.”  His son, Eamon, added, “How long are you going to be a second-rate team in your own city?” The Mets’ front office has inadvertently fueled fan frustration with statements about improved financial health that, in retrospect, seem to have been overly rosy.  At spring training last year, Wilpon said that the financial pain of the past was over and that real estate, the basis of his wealth, had turned “zimmo.” Soon enough, he promised, “the payroll will be commensurate with anything we’ve ever done, because we can do it.” Seven months later, Alderson declared that in 2014, “we will have more payroll flexibility than we’ve had since I’ve been here.” But the flexibility that fans have seen amounts to reinvesting about $40 million in contractual obligations that came off their books after last season — the biggest item being the $25.5 million paid last year to the injured left-hander Johan Santana — in three new players. The Mets signed the slugging outfielder Curtis Granderson for $60 million over four years; the 40-year-old starter Bartolo Colon for $20 million over two years; and the veteran outfielder Chris Young for $7.25 million for one year. But that was it, although the roster could clearly use more help.  Alderson said: “We’re trying to ladder our obligations so we can be in the market every year.” The Mets would not respond to any specific financial questions. The decision to remain prudent and not risk any of the new national TV money means two gaping holes are left in the infield. By not pursuing a credible free-agent first baseman like James Loney, who ultimately re-signed with the Rays, the Mets have chosen to stick with the underachieving Ike Davis and Lucas Duda. By not signing the free-agent shortstop Stephen Drew, who has evidently priced himself out of the Mets’ range, they are left with the disappointing Ruben Tejada. If the Mets appear to have a definable strategy, it is to build around pitching. Wilpon and Alderson envision the rise of a young, inexpensive staff that could be a dominant force for years. But for that to happen, Matt Harvey has to make a successful return from Tommy John surgery in 2015; Zack Wheeler has to build on his impressive rookie season; and the very promising minor leaguers Noah Syndergaard and Rafael Montero must show they can excel in the majors. Until then, the mainstays will be the ancient Colon, the young veteran Dillon Gee and the effective, but fragile, Jon Niese. Perhaps Wilpon will not resume the aggressive spending of past years — the Mets’ payroll peaked at nearly $150 million in 2009 — until the pitching staff becomes an attraction that makes the team a contender and brings fans and revenue back to Citi Field.  The banks that are refinancing the $250 million loan will probably appreciate the Mets’ safe spending. Banks routinely refinance loans to sports teams that are seeking lower rates or additional money, and the Mets got the better rate from a syndicate of banks that was larger than the previous one — an indication that the team’s financial state has improved. In recent years, the Mets needed short-term bridge loans to finance losses and to provide working capital; the owners then had to sell shares to limited partners to raise money to repay the bridge loans and some of its longer-term debt. Brad Rangell, a former managing director of Citi Private Bank’s sports finance and advisory practice, said that when lenders assess whether to refinance a team’s loan, they look at the “overall credit quality of the team, the owners, and the track record of ownership actually doing what they said they were going to do: Have they met projections? How do they react when things go wrong?”  According to two people briefed on the terms of the Mets’ refinancing, the responsibility for making sure it is repaid will shift from a Mets holding company to Wilpon and Saul Katz, a co-owner and Wilpon’s brother-in-law. The banks required that they put up more collateral, provide personal guarantees of repayment and sign an ownership support agreement that compels them to use whatever assets are necessary to make sure the loan is paid. Ownership support agreements have become more widespread in baseball since the recession and the bankruptcy of the Texas Rangers. The banks did not impose a salary cap on the Mets as a condition of the refinancing, but, as a practical matter, they did not have to. Raising payroll sharply to lure expensive free agents before attendance recovers is a formula to generate the sort of steep losses that peaked at $70 million for the Mets in 2011. Meanwhile, the drop in average attendance at Citi Field to 26,366 last season — it has fallen by 32.5 percent since the stadium opened in 2009 — has created a predictable downward spiral of ticket, parking and concession revenue.  There are no public profit-and-loss statements available for the Mets that would show the impact of selling fewer and fewer seats at the 42,000-seat ballpark. But a partial snapshot of Citi Field business — which excludes revenue from more than 30,000 seats and player payroll — is available in reports that the team files annually because the ballpark’s tax-exempt bonds were issued by New York City.  Those documents show that revenue from the stadium’s 10,635 most expensive seats has fallen 58 percent, to $41.8 million from $99.3 million in 2009. In that period, concession sales have decreased 29 percent and parking revenue has dropped 20 percent. Luxury suite revenue inched up a bit to $8.9 million in 2013, but about 10 of the 49 suites — which initially rented for as much as $500,000 a season but cost more each season — are essentially out of circulation; they were given to the limited partners whose investments in 2012 helped repay some debt. The Mets could be hurt by not being able to rent those suites if the team’s fortunes turn positive, and also by any loss of suite holders who did not renew their rentals after their leases expired last season. (Lease lengths vary.) Jodi Hecht, an analyst for Standard & Poor’s, said she had projected a drop in the 2014 cash flow earmarked to make the annual debt payments of about $43 million. The rating agency reaffirmed its BB rating — two levels below junk — of Citi Field bonds last December. But the agency lifted its formerly negative outlook on the bonds, based on the belief that cash flow will eventually stabilize. In the stands, a negative assessment may persist. The Mets have won no more than 79 games in any of the past five years. “They can’t spend enough,” Steve Attias, a Mets fan from Syosset, said during a game at Port St. Lucie last week. “You can’t expect to be on the back pages in New York if you’re not spending.”   Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS