Advertisement By PHIL BERGER With a purse bid of $32,100,000, the Mirage, a casino in Las Vegas, Nev., headed by Steve Wynn, yesterday won the right to promote James (Buster) Douglas's first title defense as heavyweight champion, against Evander Holyfield. Jim Binns, counsel to the World Boxing Association, which held the bidding at the Plaza Hotel in Manhattan, announced that Wynn planned to stage the Douglas-Holyfield fight Thursday, Sept. 20, at the Mirage. The only other bidder yesterday was Main Events Inc., run by the New Jersey-based promoter Dan Duva. Main Events, which has been Holyfield's promoter since he became a professional in 1984, bid $29,101,000. By the purse-bid system - a method of competitive bids among promoters - the champion receives three-quarters of the money bid and the challenger gets the rest. That means that Douglas is guaranteed $24,075,000, the largest purse ever for a fighter, and Holyfield will get $8,025,000. Advertisement Absolutely 'Satisfied' When Binns revealed the Mirage's bid yesterday, Duva, who was attending with Holyfield, turned to the fighter and told him what his share would be. ''I asked him was he satisfied, and he said, 'Absolutely,' '' Duva said later. Advertisement Neither Douglas nor his manager, John Johnson, attended the bidding, but Johnson, who was at the Mirage with Douglas attending an amateur boxing competition, said, referring to the bid: ''It was a great day for me. After James beat Tyson, King offered us $10 million for a rematch, and today, we got 24-plus to fight Holyfield, which is what I always thought was fair.''  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Conspicuously absent from the bidding yesterday was Douglas's promoter of record, Don King, who on Saturday attempted to circumvent the purse bids by offering Douglas, who upset Mike Tyson last February in Tokyo, $20 million and 50 percent of revenues more than $34 million. Douglas did not take King up on his offer. King on one side and Douglas and the Mirage on the other are suing each other in a case expected to be heard starting June 26 in Federal court in New York City. Douglas is suing to break King's promotional hold on him, claiming breach of contract. Bruce Levin, a vice president and general counsel of Golden Nugget, parent company of the Mirage, said yesterday he would have preferred that the purse bidding be held after the litigation. The Mirage and King had asked the court to stop the bidding yesterday. Duva said yesterday he did not anticipate the court matter affecting the bid. But Johnson said that Judge Robert Sweet, who will be hearing the case, had scheduled a hearing today on the status of the purse bid. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 11, 1990, on Page C00002 of the National edition with the headline: Record Jackpot for Douglas.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »