Advertisement By JOE LAPOINTE The head of the union for players in hockey's top two minor leagues charged yesterday that two National Hockey League general managers approached at least two minor league teams this week in an attempt to find replacements for major league players if they strike. Curt Leichner, general counsel and executive director for the Professional Hockey Players Association, said by phone from Portland, Ore., last night that he would not identify the major league general managers or the minor league teams because, he said, he could jeopardize the careers of the player representatives who reported the meetings to him. But Leichner said one of the teams was in the American Hockey League and the other was in the International Hockey League. "My gut reaction is that this kind of thing is an unfair labor practice," said Leichner, a lawyer who has headed the union since 1967. "They are putting my players between a rock and a hard place." May Complain to Labor Board Advertisement Leichner said some of the players were asked first if they would play during a strike and then asked how they would feel if they were suspended without pay for refusing. Most minor league players are under contract to N.H.L. teams. Advertisement If this kind of pressure continues, Leichner said, "I'm going to pursue National Labor Relations Board sanctions." Bill Wilkerson, the principal communications adviser to the N.H.L. president, John Ziegler, said he talked to Ziegler last night and advised him of Leichner's charges. Wilkerson quoted Ziegler as saying in response that "the matter has not come to the board of governors and there will be no comment until, if and when it does."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The matter could come before the board soon. The governors, mostly team owners, have been summoned to Chicago for an emergency meeting tomorrow. Today, N.H.L. general managers will meet in Chicago. Asked again if some general managers have been recruiting minor league players, Wilkerson replied: "We have no first-hand knowledge of that." He said tomorrow's meeting of the governors "is to deal with all matters concerning a strike." Bill Torrey, general manager of the Islanders and a member of the owners' bargaining committee, was asked after last night's game if the league would use replacement players during a strike. Strike Was Authorized "I cannot really answer that," Torrey said. "One of the reasons we're meeting in Chicago is to let everybody know what is going on and to discuss things of this nature." Calls to the N.H.L. Players Association were not returned. Leichner said he talked yesterday with Bob Goodenow, the executive director of the N.H.L. players' union, and told him of recent approaches to minor league players. Although no strike date has been set, the N.H.L. players' union was given a strike authorization by its members last week in voting by the member clubs. Talks broke off Monday night in New York between the owners and the union in efforts to negotiate a collective-bargaining agreement to replace the one that expired on Sept. 15. The Stanley Cup playoffs begin on April 8 and a strike then or before then is a possibility. Advertisement The main issue is mobility for free agents. Playoff tickets in many cities cost as much as $50, sometimes more. It is uncertain if fans would financially support the league if it used replacement workers at those prices. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 11, 1992, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; N.H.L. Aides Accused On Strike Replacements.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »