Advertisement By TIMOTHY W. SMITH and  After being selected in the 12th round of the N.F.L. draft by the Giants last Monday, the first phone call Larry Wanke received was not from the team. The call was from the organizers of Irrelevant Week, an annual celebration in Newport Beach, Calif., for the last player drafted. Wanke (pronounced WAHN-key), a 6-foot-3-inch, 220-pound quarterback from John Carroll University outside of Cleveland, is hoping his ride with the Giants will last longer than the one through the parade route in Newport Beach. "It's a standing joke," Wanke said. "It's my job to go out and prove that I'm not Mr. Irrelevant, that I got picked and they made a good choice in doing it." Advertisement The Giants already have an interesting quarterback battle shaping up with Phil Simms and Jeff Hostetler. Revolving around Simms and Hostetler is veteran backup Matt Cavanaugh. Besides Wanke, the Giants brought in two other rookies for this weekend's mini-camp. Advertisement From this point on, the 23-year-old Wanke will be waging an uphill struggle to make the squad. "It's going to take a lot of hard work, some studying to learn a new offense," Wanke said. As a senior at Benedictine High School in South Euclid, Ohio, Wanke threw for 3,045 yards and 34 touchdowns. He visited Miami of Florida, Boston College, Penn State and Ohio State, and decided to attend Pittsburgh. He was red-shirted as a freshman. In 1987, he was a backup to Darnell Dickerson. In 1988, the two players alternated until Wanke suffered a shoulder injury early in the season against West Virginia and missed the remainder of the year. The next season Pitt decided to switch to a system designed around a mobile, rollout type quarterback like Dickerson. Wanke said he felt like he was out of the picture.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. He decided to transfer to John Carroll, a school near his home that plays Division III football and does not give athletic scholarships. "I put all my aspirations on the back burner," Wanke said. "I said to myself: "Hey, I'm going to go have fun. No matter what, I'm not going to spend two more years at a place where I'm not having a good time and I'm not playing football.' " He gave up a full scholarship at Pittsburgh, moved back home, took out loans, took jobs as a painter and a cutlery salesman to offset the $10,000 yearly cost of attending John Carroll University. All for the sake of having fun. In his two seasons at John Carroll Wanke set 16 school passing records, including career total offense (3,898 yards), attempts (613), completions (330) and touchdowns (25). Advertisement Wanke said he didn't think that playing against Division III competition would work against him in trying to catch on with the Giants. "I went down to play in the All-American Classic Bowl game and I played real well down there," Wanke said. "I started and I won a job from a lot of other good quarterbacks." That experience makes the Irrelevant Week crown a tough fit for Wanke. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 29, 1991, on Page C00003 of the National edition with the headline: FOOTBALL; Giants' Last Pick Seeks Last Laugh.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »