Advertisement By THOMAS GEORGE San Francisco 38, Miami 16. Chicago 46, New England 10. Giants 39, Denver 20. Washington 42, Denver 10. San Francisco 20, Cincinnati 16. San Francisco 55, Denver 10. Giants 20, Buffalo 19. National Football Conference 7, American Football Conference zip. This N.F.C.-A.F.C thing in Super Bowl play is a testy subject for the Buffalo Bills, for the A.F.C. and for the National Football League. The N.F.C.'s string of seven consecutive Super Bowl victories going into the Bills-Redskins matchup next Sunday has left the A.F.C. with an ugly black eye. And it proves a lingering embarrasment for the N.F.L., which prides itself on parity and yearns for that element most in its championship game. Advertisement When Buffalo (A.F.C.) battles Washington (N.F.C.) in Super Bowl XXVI, it will be Buffalo's task to end the N.F.C.'s recent domination. Bruce Smith, Buffalo's emotional defensive end, believes the Bills are up to the task. Advertisement "Everyone in the A.F.C. gets so tired of hearing about how great the N.F.C. teams are," Smith said. "'They're so powerful. They're so smart. They've got this; they've got that.' You hear it all. It's like everybody believes the A.F.C. teams get there and absolutely fall apart, but two of the last three Super Bowls have been awfully close. It should give us extra incentive. The only way to end all of the talk is to win the game." You got it. Even though the N.F.C.'s overall Super Bowl edge is only 13-12, jokes about the A.F.C. still run rampant. During the N.F.C.'s current seven-victory string, it has won by an average score of 37-14. Only once during the stretch has an A.F.C. team managed to score 20 points. The A.F.C.'s last victory was in Super Bowl XVIII when the Raiders toppled Washington, 38-9. Here is more bad news for the A.F.C. in its quest for respect: the N.F.C. won easily in overall interconference play this season, 33-19. Not since before the league merger in 1970 have the old N.F.L. teams (now the N.F.C.) been able turn their noses up so mightily and snub the old A.F.L. teams (now the A.F.C.). Back then, the A.F.L. was viewed as the weaker league and it took the cocky style of Joe Namath and the Jets to beat Baltimore in Super Bowl III and Kansas City's upset victory over Minnesota in Super Bowl IV to silence their critics.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Why the A.F.C.'s recent drought? There is no simple answer, but here are a few thoughts: The Denver Factor The Broncos have accounted for three of the seven consecutive losses, losing by a combined score of 136-40. Quarterback John Elway's magic has always been missing in the Super Bowl and the Denver defense has been assaulted there. You can bet that league officials breathed a sigh of relief when Denver failed to reach the Super Bowl this year. Even some Bronco fans were relieved. Actually, it's a shame for the Broncos because their defense showed in this year's A.F.C. championship game that it just might have been able to hold up to Washington's versatile attack. Then again. . . . The Power Teams Advertisement Simply put, the best pro football franchises in the last seven years have been San Francisco, the Giants, Washington and Chicago, all in the N.F.C. Those four teams account for the last seven titles. Each team drafts well and uses solid schemes, and in many ways, from top to bottom, they possess the best coaching staffs in the league. The stereotype remains that N.F.C. teams play power football and that A.F.C. teams stress more of a finesse and passing game. N.F.C. teams are more physical, more hard-nosed. They stress the running game and two simple basics of football: blocking and tackling. The A.F.C. has the glamour quarterbacks -- Dan Marino, Bernie Kosar, Warren Moon and Elway -- but none of them own Super Bowl rings. Defense If defense wins championships, then the N.F.C. again showed why it is the stronger conference this season. Seven of the top 10-ranked defensive teams in the league in 1991 were N.F.C. teams, and the top five were all N.F.C. teams. It appears that N.F.C. defenses place more emphasis on each man's beating the opponent in front of him. In the A.F.C., individual, physical matchups sometimes appear secondary to zones and collective-type defenses that don't emphasize big hits enough and fail to produce enough big-play turnovers. The bottom line is that in the last seven Super Bowls, N.F.C. teams have entered more prepared, readier to be physical and more likely to execute well, and have left as winners. Will Buffalo reverse the trend? The entire A.F.C. has its fingers crossed and hopes that the dominance, and embarrasment, dies. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 19, 1992, on Page 8008003 of the National edition with the headline: ON PRO FOOTBALL; Will the N.F.C.'s String Be Broken by the Bills?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »