Kyle Beckerman has bought into the system at Real Salt Lake. That system, installed by Coach Jason Kreis, took R.S.L. to the 2009 Major League Soccer championship and it took R.S.L. to the brink of representing the league and the Concacaf region in December’s FIFA Club World Cup in Japan. Beckerman, R.S.L.’s dreadlocked midfielder, is among the 19 M.L.S. players who are preparing to face Manchester United in the M.L.S. All-Star Game Wednesday night at Red Bull Arena in Harrison, N.J.. And Beckerman, still only 29 years old after nearly 11 seasons in the league, is particularly bullish on his club and his coach’s approach to the game. What is so special about playing in Sandy, Utah, which to most people would seem an unlikely soccer hub?  “The biggest thing is the ownership,” Beckerman said, referring to the R.S.L. owner, Dave Checketts. “It trickles down from there. He brought in a great coach and has been hands-on from the first day I met him. He came right up to me and said, ‘It’s great to have you here.’ You want to win for the guy, to make him happy. That’s the biggest thing. In Colorado, the owner would walk right by me and had no clue who I was.” Beckerman was referring to Stan Kroenke, the owner of the Rapids, the Denver Nuggets, the St. Louis Rams and Arsenal of the English Premier League. Kreis was the first player selected by Real Salt Lake in the expansion draft as the team prepared to enter the league for the 2005 season, after a stellar career with Dallas. The soccer in R.S.L.’s early years was ugly and Checketts knew it was time for a change. So Kreis switched from his game jersey into a suit and tie, the style favored by many European coaches, and took a place on the bench.  Does having a former player as a coach make a difference to Beckerman? “Absolutely,” he said. “You respect him right away, just playing-wise, and for how he coaches and conducts himself. Not everyone on our team has played against him, but I think that his demeanor earns respect from all of us. He’s been really good for us. He has a system, something he believes in, right or wrong, it’s something he believes in and it works.” With his success on the sideline, in league play and in continental competitions, Kreis is at or near the top of a lot of lists to become the next coach of the United States national team. And for Beckerman, there could not be a better choice, should it come to that. “I don’t see any reason why not,” Beckerman said after the all-stars’ light training session at Pier 40 in Manhattan on Monday. “I think we have the players in this country that could play in his system perfectly and play attractive soccer. And his style is to really go after teams instead of hanging back and waiting to counter. It’s let’s go kick some butt. I think he would bring that philosophy to the national team.” Goal, The New York Times soccer blog, will report on news and features from the world of soccer and around the Web.  Times editors and reporters will follow international tournaments and provide analysis of games. There will be interviews with players, coaches and notable soccer fans, as well as a weekly blog column by Red Bulls forward Jozy Altidore.  Readers can discuss Major League Soccer, foreign leagues and other issues with fellow soccer fans.
	 
			The Goal blog’s regular features, including live match analysis, player ratings from key matches, reader discussion, news and notes and more, can now be found on the soccer section front.Read more… 
			Crystal Palace won promotion to England’s Premier League on Monday. Now the club must retool under Manager Ian Holloway if it is to avoid relegation next season.Read more… 
			When congress opens, FIFA will be dealing with issues from President Sepp Blatter’s possible run for another term to accusations of vote-rigging among executive committee members.Read more… 
			Sacha Kljestan, who just won his second straight Belgian title with Anderlecht, could have a role to play for the United States in its exhibition against Belgium on Wednesday.Read more… 
			Alonso Hernandez, who plays in Mexico for Monterrey but has never represented the United States at any level, will get a chance to earn a place on the Under-20 World Cup team.Read more… Follow Advertisement