Advertisement  Special to the New York Times After asking Seoul's 10 million citizens to reduce traffic congestion during the Olympic Games by alternating the days they drove their cars, Mayor Kim Yong Nae switched the license plates on his car so that he could be on the road every day. ''It was a mistake but it was inevitable because he had one car and had to attend many Olympic functions,'' said an official. The Mayor had asked those drivers with license plates ending in even numbers to drive their cars only on even-numbered days and those with odd-numbered plates to drive only on odd-numbered days. Switching license plates is against the law here. Those convicted can be sentenced to a year in prison and fined the equivalent of $1,380. Thursday, the day after news of the Mayor's plate switch became public, the city changed its policy: from now on, violators of the alternate-day rule will be subject to fines. Until now, the punishment for failure to comply voluntarily was a ''smile'' sticker pasted on the violating car's window.  Take That, Spuds Advertisement The Australian delegation has just finished its first 100 cases of Foster's Lager. But fear not - the delegation reports that it has just received another 100 cases. The first load arrived on Sept. 7 and took approximately two weeks to consume. A delegation spokeswoman said she was unaware of a third shipment being ordered. ''We don't know how much beer is in each case,'' she said, adding that the beer was not being consumed solely by athletes, but was being served to delegation members and their guests as well.  No. 3 Is Nowhere Advertisement For the host nation, it seems, medals come in one color, and that is gold. Wednesday, when Kim Young Nam won South Korea's first gold medal of the Games, in Greco-Roman wrestling's 198-pound division, he instantly became not only the most photographed, talked about and heralded man in the country but, within the space of 24 hours, a legend. The championship bout - with Kim racing in triumph around the mat, his fist in the air at the end - was broadcast throughout the day and into the night on Korean television. The story of his career, set to music, was aired over and over again. Newspapers recounted the tale of his humble beginnings - practicing on dried rice stalks spread over a wood floor because his high school could not afford mats.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ''He did it,'' read the lead story of the English-langauge Korea Times. ''He turned the entire nation wild with enthusiasm, quenching their thirst for gold.'' But then there was the case of Ahn Dae Hyun, another Greco-Roman wrestler, who won the bronze in the 137-pound division. Before the Games, United States wrestling officials had not even heard of Ahn, let alone considered him a contender for the championship. He had lost to a Japanese rival in the 1986 Seoul Asian Games. But the pleasure on Ahn's face at his moment of triumph was short-lived. Soon after being awarded his medal, he apologized. He told his countrymen that he was sorry he let them down by only finishing in third place. He also said that he had done his best.  World-Class Choices? Parents of Olympic athletes take note: complaints about the food at the Olympic Village have not gone unheeded. After hearing what were termed ''remarks'' about the sameness of the cuisine - as well as the 20-minute wait on the cafeteria line -the Games' organizers have announced that even though the cafeteria works on a five-day menu rotation, it will add more variety to its culinary offerings. Specifics were not announced.  Thoughts of Home At $3-a-minute to phone home, even the top pick in the major league baseball draft can't afford to call his wife in Indiana as often as he would like. Still, Andy Benes is glad that Jennifer, seven months pregnant, didn't come to the Olympics. ''It's hard being away from her, and she really wanted to be here,'' said the 6-foot-6-inch pitcher from the University of Evansville, who was selected first by the San Diego Padres in the June draft. But the doctor thought she'd better stay home since we're expecting a baby in November.''(AP) We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 23, 1988, on Page D00021 of the National edition with the headline: THE SEOUL OLYMPICS: Notebook; For Seoul's Mayor, A Rule to Regret.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »