Advertisement By DAVE ANDERSON HE'S different from all the other 9,626 athletes in these XXIV Olympic Summer Games. But he learned to play baseball the same way just about every kid does: playing catch with his father. ''I was 4 or 5,'' Jim Abbott was saying now. ''The game just came natural.'' ''We had a big backyard; we lived at 1301 Riverdale Road in Flint then,'' he recalled of his home in Michigan as he stood in the Olympic Baseball Stadium after a United States team workout. ''And later on, we had a game where we threw a tennis ball into a lawn chair and tried to hit it with a miniature bat. If you hit it into the trees, it was a home run. We played that game for hours.'' Abbott, who was born without a right hand, has been playing baseball ever since and now he'll be playing it for years to come. He'll go to spring training with the California Angels as the eighth choice in the June draft. But first, this 6-foot-3-inch left-hander with the flaming fastball hopes to pitch the United States to the commemorative gold medal in baseball, an Olympic demonstration sport that will achieve full medal status in Barcelona in 1992. Advertisement Whenever one of Abbott's pitches is bunted or drilled back at him, he'll be an Olympic curio as he quickly switches his glove with a magician's sleight of hand. Advertisement ''They bunt on him, he throws them out, next case,'' said Mark Marquess, the United States coach. ''I expected him to be a below-average fielder, but he's an average fielder.'' Marquess, the baseball coach at Stanford, meant average for any pitcher with two hands. And as a pitcher, Abbott is far above average. During the Olympic team's barnstorming tour, he had a 7-1 record, a 2.59 earned run average and 63 strikeouts in 76Y innings. At the University of Michigan, he has been 26-8 with a 3.03 e.r.a. Abbott, who turns 21 today, won't start here until Friday's third game against Canada, whose batting order is dominated by left-handed hitters. But that's the plan. He then would be the starter if the United States gets to the gold-medal game Sept. 29 against Japan, the 1984 champion in Los Angeles. ''The Japanese are smart players,'' he said. ''They're so fundamentally sound, they never make a mistake. They're taught fundamentals from such a young age, they know how to go the other way, how to bunt. Their pitchers are always on the corners. They're just smart players. And their fans are great. When we played in Japan last week, the people just went crazy when I switched my glove. But that happens everywhere.'' Fielding a bunt isn't that troublesome or dangerous for him. But the comeback line drive haunts any pitcher. ''The comebacker is a tough play if you've got two hands,'' he said. ''You see major league pitchers on the disabled list from a comebacker. After your follow-through, you're only 55 feet away from the batter. But you've got to go out and play the game.''  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Some people wonder if big-league comebackers will be too quick for Abbott. ''Those comebackers might be even quicker off the aluminum bats we used in college and are using here. That's one reason I'm looking forward to pitching against wooden bats in spring training. But with guys like Jose Canseco and Mark McGwire swinging a wooden bat, a comebacker is pretty quick too.'' McGwire was on the 1984 Olympic team along with several other current big-leaguers: Will Clark, Cory Snyder, Barry Larkin, B. J. Surhoff. Advertisement ''When we go places,'' Abbott said, ''people ask us about the '84 team, not the '88 team. But I think we'll have guys off this team go to the big leagues. I talked a little to Will Clark about it and he told me he didn't think the difference was that great, but that if a pitcher makes a mistake in the big leagues, they're going to hit it.'' In the days leading up to the baseball draft, some major league scouts thought Abbott would go late in the first round or early in the second round. ''I thought I'd go pretty high,'' he said, ''but I can understand that thinking. My stock went down because I had a rocky season at Michigan, my concentration wasn't that good after the Sullivan Award.'' Abbott was among the candidates for the award that annually honors the nation's outstanding amateur athlete. ''I had no business even being invited to that dinner,'' he said. ''I thought Karch Kiraly, the volleyball player, would win it. But then they announced my name and Jackie Joyner-Kersee, who won it in 1987, presented the award to me. I couldn't believe it.'' That was one of the few times in his life that Jim Abbott didn't think he would win. ''Growing up,'' he recalled, ''a few people tried to tell me that I couldn't go very far in sports, but I didn't listen to them. And my coaches have been great to me. In high school I pitched, I played quarterback, I played forward in basketball. Even so, my baseball coach, Bob Holec, told my mother that maybe I should think about a smaller college. But I wanted a big college. And then Bud Middaugh at Michigan, for a college coach to let a guy with one hand play, that's really something.'' And for the Angels to use their first-round choice to draft a pitcher with one hand, that's really something too. ''I knew I'd be picked by an American League team,'' he said. ''With the d.h., I won't have to hit. I guess they didn't know that I hit .430 in high school with eight home runs.'' He grinned. ''But if they threw a curveball,'' he said, ''I couldn't touch it.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 19, 1988, on Page C00011 of the National edition with the headline: THE SEOUL OLYMPICS; Sports of The Times; A Natural For the Game.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »