Advertisement By JOSEPH DURSO and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES The Mets got three more hits today than they did the day before: five, to be exact. And they got one more run than the day before: one, to be axact. And so, in this season of strange silences and streaks, they lost their second straight to the San Francisco Giants and lost another fraction of their lead in the National League's East, now 4 games with 41 to go. They were muzzled this time chiefly by Mike Krukow, who pitched shutout ball for six innings, steered the Giants to a 4-1 victory and beat the Mets for the 20th time in 27 decisions in his 12-year career. And he did it only a few hours after Rick Reuschel tamed them, 4-0. In the locker room, silence and doubt. 'A Strange Feeling' ''It's night and day from 1986,'' said Bob Ojeda, who pitched four innings and lost for the 12th time. ''It's a strange feeling to go out and feel early in the ball game that you're out of it. You give up a couple of runs, and you feel you're out of it. Advertisement ''We used to be described as arrogant. When was the last time you heard us called that?'' ''The dugout was a cemetery,'' said Keith Hernandez. ''You knew if we fell behind, we'd be in trouble. I knew when they got their fourth run, we'd never come back. It's the first time I ever got the feeling with this team.'' Advertisement ''I don't know what it is,'' said Darryl Strawberry, who hit one ball out of the infield in the last two games. ''Everybody likes to beat us. The other night in the first game here, we score nine runs in the first inning. Then we go flat for two games.'' Actually, after a 30-11 start this season, the Mets have played only two games better than .500 ball for two and a half months. And Dave Johnson, looking less sure of himself than usual, took the occasion to nudge the front office as well as his players. Words of Wisdom ''We need a shot in the arm,'' he said. ''We need to infuse something. I'm not looking for major changes, but hope springs eternal. The feeling, from management to the players, is probably: We'll do all right. Status quo. But that's a losing attitude. You should always be searching for answers. ''But I get the feeling everybody's comfortable. If everybody else feels that way, then I'm the crazy man.'' But the Mets' laments didn't impress Krukow. He beat them four times without losing in 1986, when they won the pennant, and has beaten them three times without losing this year. But he refused to bait the Mets. ''They can explode,'' he said. ''They're like a time bomb. I know these guys. You've got to pitch carefully against them, not just throw. Inside, outside. You've got to pull every trick you know, or they'll explode.''  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Not today. They struck out 11 times. They got four singles and one gift double. Five times in the last six innings they got the leadoff man on base, and scored him only once: in the ninth. Krukow, who spent six weeks on the disabled list this summer with an inflamed right shoulder, got the lead in the first inning and held it. Robby Thompson, who hits .400 against the Mets, singled, stole second and scored on Kevin Mitchell's double. In the second, Ojeda went to one ball and two strikes on Matt Williams, who drove the next pitch downwind over the fence in left center, and now the Mets were two down. Advertisement Then, in the fourth, the Mets fell apart after Candy Maldonado doubled and scored on Jose Uribe's two-out single through the middle. Worse, Krukow then lifted a high pop down the line behind first base. Strawberry ran across from right field, slipped on the grass and went sprawling as the ball dropped behind him onto the chalk, and Krukow made second with a gift double. And now the Mets were four down. They were also wasting chances every time they went to bat. Hernandez opened the fourth with a pop-fly double, but Krukow struck out Strawberry, then got two more outs. One inning later, with two men on base and one out, Krukow struck out Lenny Dykstra and Wally Backman. In the sixth, with Hernandez on first, he struck out Strawberry and McReynolds. ''Can we beat the Giants in the playoff?'' Strawberry asked, fielding the question. ''We've got to get there first.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 19, 1988, on Page D00017 of the National edition with the headline: Mets Quietly Fall to Krukow.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »