
With  his punishing topspin ground strokes, Lendl won eight Grand Slam singles titles, reached the final of at least one Grand Slam tournament  for 11 straight years (Sampras is the only other man to do that), advanced to 19 Grand Slam finals (only Roger Federer has played in more), and was ranked No. 1 for 270 weeks (only Sampras and Federer have surpassed him). He is also  familiar with the Garden: during the 13 years that the Masters Tournament was held there, Lendl reached a record nine straight finals, losing four times (including twice to McEnroe) but winning five (beating McEnroe once).         Unlike his rivals McEnroe and Jimmy Connors, the stoic Lendl, now 50, essentially disappeared from the sport after an aching back sent him into retirement in 1994. Instead, he devoted much of his time and energy to  golf and his family (he has five daughters, three of whom play college-level golf).         
But he became involved in running an academy to train top golf and tennis juniors. And after cortisone shots in 2008 relieved much of his back pain he returned to the spotlight, playing an exhibition last April against another of his  rivals from the 1980s, Mats Wilander. He lost, but came back for more — to tune up for Monday’s match against McEnroe, he played McEnroe in Australia in January (McEnroe won), then beat Carl Uwe Steeb (once ranked as high as 14th) in Berlin.         
Q. What brought you back to tennis?  
A. I was very tired after my career, and it took a while to recharge my batteries. But now I have only one daughter at home. A couple of juniors asked me about the game. I’m a big stickler for fundamentals, but I’m not going to pretend I can teach someone how to hit the ball. These players know how to hit tennis balls but they don’t know what to do with the weapons they have. I can teach them how to play matches most effectively. I enjoy that.          With my back feeling better, I was able to show the players at my academy what to do instead of just telling them. When I started hitting there, it felt good. I didn’t expect to enjoy it as much as I do.         
Q. Is this match at the Garden a culmination of the comeback or do you expect to keep going?  
A. I’m going to play as long as I enjoy it. If I wake up and don’t enjoy it anymore, then I’ll stop. Right now, I’m having fun — I had a great time with Charlie Steeb in Berlin. We had lunch together then played the match, signed autographs and went out to dinner together.         
Q. But you never had that kind of a relationship with McEnroe, where you’d have lunch or dinner together. Has your relationship changed?  A. No. I really don’t have one with him. I wish we could. After all this time, you would think it would be reasonable.         
Q. So will this match have a different feel for you?  
A. Yes, for two reasons. This is Madison Square Garden, so that makes it special. And no one wants to lose, but this will be more competitive than the match against Wilander or Charlie.         
Q. What are you doing to get ready that’s different from when you had to play McEnroe on the tour.   
A. I’ve only been playing left-handers for the past three months to get ready. John was unique, so it’s tough to copy his style, but I’m at least seeing people hit from that angle. When I was playing on the tour, I didn’t have time to prepare for just one match. But in 1984 after losing the U.S. Open to John, I was ranked third behind John and Jimmy. I knew I needed to play better against left-handers, so I hired Tony Roche as a coach. He was able to tell me as a left-hander how he would play me and hitting with him in practice helped. He played a big role in my going to No. 1.         Q. Will you stick around to watch Sampras and Agassi?  
A. I think I’ll watch at least a little bit. But I may need to have some body work done afterwards. Don’t forget, John and I are old fogies.         
Q. You had a huge semifinal victory against Pat Cash on Super Saturday in 1984, won three United States Opens and five Masters at the Garden. Which are your favorite New York matches?  
A. There are two. I beat John at the U.S. Open in the 1985 finals for my first win there, and that was a little bit unexpected since John had been beating me handily that summer. The other was the 1987 finals at the Masters at the Garden against Wilander. It was one of the best matches I ever played. I felt like I was floating on the court. (Lendl won, 6-3, 6-2, 6-2.)         
Q. How often did you feel that way for a whole match?  A. Not often enough. Just a very few times. There were a lot of matches where I was in the subzone, where you’re going in and out of zone and playing well but it’s harder to have that for a whole match.         
Q. You’ve had a few wins in golf tournaments, too, even though it’s not at the same level. How does that compare?  
A. They’re different, but I’ve cherished those. I wouldn’t trade one for another Grand Slam. The golf wins have more meaning because it was harder work for me to win one of those.         Journalists from The New York Times and The International Herald Tribune (along with a few dedicated fans) are following the Grand Slam tournaments, on and off the court. They will provide updates, insights, links and analysis while setting the scene from the stands as well as the press room. 
			This blog’s regular features, including live tournament analysis, news and notes from Christopher Clarey, Ben Rothenberg and others, and other coverage, can now be found on the tennis section front.Read more… 
			Venus Williams, ranked No. 63, beat No. 2 Victoria Azarenka in Tokyo on Tuesday, her first win over a player in the top two since 2009.Read more… 
			The United States learned on Wednesday that it would host a first-round tie with Britain for the 2014 Davis Cup.Read more… 
			According to one celebrity marketing index, Andy Murray is the most appealing of the so-called Big Four in men’s tennis. Read more… 
			Sloane Stephens walked the runway Thursday night in the Just Dance With Boy Meets Girl fashion show, modeling the designs of Stacy Igel.Read more… Advertisement