Advertisement By MALCOLM MORAN In the bottom of the ninth inning, at the end of a game that had seemed another businesslike victory by the first-place Red Sox and a dreary return to losing by the Yankees, the swing of Mel Hall suddenly, shockingly reduced a holiday afternoon to one question: Fair or foul? "All I'm saying is stay fair," said Stump Merrill, the once-tortured manager of the Yankees. "If it was fair," said Hall, who had already hit one home run, "I knew it was gone." "I was hoping it would be foul," said Boston's Jeff Reardon, whose 14 saves are the most in the major leagues. "But I knew it was fair. He hit it hard enough to keep it fair." And when everyone knew, when Hall's three-run homer passed several feet inside the right-field foul pole in the lower deck to complete a 6-5 Yankee victory, the crowded and emotional welcome at home plate raised another question about a once-lost season. Advertisement Is a comeback from a 5-0 fifth-inning deficit for a fifth straight victory just an isolated electric moment in a discouraging rebuilding year or a memorable sign of a growing sense of confidence? Advertisement Hall's previous unhappiness with the Yankees was punctuated last year with a tirade in Baltimore that featured a slammed door to the visiting manager's office that knocked a doorknob to the floor. Now he has hit three home runs in two days, two in the ninth inning. And the Yankees, who lost the first 20 games in which they trailed after the eighth inning, have won the last two. Jesse Barfield, who preferred a trade to a lack of playing time last summer, hit home runs longer than 400 feet over the left-center-field fence in the fifth and seventh innings at the start of the comeback. "In the three years I've been here," he said yesterday, "I can't remember seeing as much emotion as there was today." As Hall was engulfed at home plate, and the noise came from a Stadium crowd that had been charged from the start by the first appearance of the rival Sox and a rare, if modest, winning streak, the question could wait for another time. "Even in the old days," Mattingly said, "that didn't happen too much. You don't see that very much at all." When the Yankees came to bat in the fifth inning, they had produced one hit and a walk, and had fallen behind by five runs.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Pat Kelly's second major league error, his first as the Yankee third baseman, led to the first Boston run in a three-run second inning. Carlos Quintana's long home run off Yankee starter Dave Eiland, to the left of the 399-foot mark in left-center field, put Boston ahead, 5-0, in the fifth. But with relievers Eric Plunk, Steve Howe and Lee Guetterman combining to allow one hit and two walks in the final four and two-thirds innings, the Yankees were given a chance to steal a game. In the seventh inning, after Hall's upper-deck home run made the score 5-2 and Barfield's second homer brought the Yankees within two runs, Hall came back into the clubhouse. Mattingly, who had injured the pinky on his right hand in a first-inning slide, had left the game in the sixth after the finger started swelling. He listened to Hall as the finger was wrapped in ice. Advertisement "He said, 'I've got one more big at bat,' " Mattingly said. "What I was thinking was I've got one more shot," Hall said. "When you're feeling good and swinging good, you want to get another opportunity." Hall's chance came after Hensley Meulens, who had replaced Mattingly at first base, led off against Reardon with a single through the hole into left field. Kevin Maas hit a line drive toward Reardon's face that the pitcher knocked down with his glove. With the count at two balls, two strikes, Hall hit a breaking ball toward the foul pole. In another time, when Yankee Stadium and the Bronx and the Yankees were all very different, those late-inning rallies -- Five O'Clock Lightning -- helped define a dynasty. Regardless of the ultimate significance, the fans sounded happy to see one more bolt. "If we can keep this thing up," Barfield said, "we're in business." "Maybe I'll sleep nice tonight," Merrill said. INSIDE PITCH DON MATTINGLY , who jammed the pinky on his right hand while sliding into second base on a first-inning double, did not know if he would be able to play tonight against ROGER CLEMENS . . . ELLIS BURKS of the Red Sox, who batted in the leadoff spot for the first time this season, was hitless in five times at bat to end a 15-game hitting streak. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 28, 1991, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Unstoppable Yankees Get an Improbable Victory.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »