Advertisement By DAVE ANDERSON For decades, the Yankees were known as the "best franchise in sports" until, bluster by bluster, George Steinbrenner destroyed it. With the title vacated, several franchises in various sports can argue that with their success over the years each now deserves to be hailed as the best. The San Francisco 49ers. The Boston Celtics, the Los Angeles Lakers. The Edmonton Oilers. And in baseball, the Oakland Athletics, the Los Angeles Dodgers. But in a casual moment last year, Frank Cashen, whose Mets title is now senior executive vice president as well as chief operating officer and general manager, proposed that the Mets were now the best franchise. After all, Cashen explained, the Mets were always a contender, the Mets were always above or approaching the three million mark in attendance, the Mets had a fat television contract, the Mets had a national appeal, the Mets had a productive farm system, the Mets had two owners (Nelson Doubleday and Fred Wilpon) who didn't try to upstage the team. "The Mets," Cashen concluded, "are now the best franchise in sports." At the time, the Mets were also the best second-place team in baseball. Until proven otherwise, they still are. But if the Mets are to justify Cashen's boast as being "the best franchise in sports," he must justify his favorite baseball phrase. Advertisement "You never have enough pitching," Cashen likes to say. If you never have enough pitching, you never quibble about signing Dwight Gooden and Frank Viola to new contracts. No matter how many millions it takes. No matter how many millions Roger Clemens collected from the Boston Red Sox last week: $21,521,000 over four years, a $5.38 million average. That's a new high in a baseball economy that doesn't recognize the recession in the national economy. Advertisement But according to Al Harazin, who negotiates the Mets' salaries, the Clemens contract will make it "difficult" for the Mets to sign both Gooden and Viola. What's so difficult? Harazin presumably understands Cashen's belief that "you never have enough pitching." Harazin presumably understands Cashen's belief that the Mets are the "best franchise in sports." If those two tenets are observed, the "best franchise" will assure itself "enough pitching" by signing both Gooden and Viola soon in order to eliminate the possibility that either or both will test the free-agent market after the season ends. Only time will determine the wisdom of Cashen and Harazin in allowing Darryl Strawberry to join the Dodgers as a free agent. If they were to allow Gooden or Viola, or both, to depart, Cashen and Harazin will risk being linked in infamy to their front-office predecessor, M. Donald Grant, who traded Tom Seaver to the Cincinnati Reds in 1977. Without Strawberry's bat, the Mets will be depending on Gooden and Viola more than ever before. Of the other 25 major league teams, only the Athletics possess two such premier pitchers: Dave Stewart and Bob Welch. Stewart is now in the first year of a two-year $7 million contract, a $3.5 million average. Welch recently signed a four-year $13.8 million contract, a $3.45 million average.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But now that Clemens will be earning more than $5 million annually, Gooden and Viola understandably deserve to be considered at that plateau. Over the last seven seasons, Viola has a 126-86 record, Gooden 119-48 and Clemens 116-51. In earned run average, Gooden is low at 2.82, with Clemens at 2.89 and Viola at 3.38. Clemens has the most strikeouts with 1,424, to Gooden's 1,391 and Viola's 1,258. In last season's stats, Clemens was 21-6 with a 1.93 earned run average and 209 strikeouts, Viola was 20-12, 2.67 and 182, Gooden was 19-7, 3.83 and 223. Looking to future durability, Clemens, who will be 29 years old in August, had a sore shoulder late last season. Gooden, who was 26 in November, had a sore shoulder the year before that limited him to a 9-4 reccord in only 17 starts. Viola, who will be 31 in April, has been an iron man, averaging nearly 250 innings and about 36 starts in each of the last eight seasons. Advertisement The pitching arm is the most fragile item in sports. Any pitcher's career might end with his next pitch, meaning that a team can be stuck with a multimillion-dollar contract. But because a dominant pitcher is so rare, teams assume the financial risk. Even a not-so-dominant pitcher, like Bud Black, was signed as a free agent by the San Francisco Giants for $10 million over four years. If Bud Black, with a career 83-82 record, was worth that much, Roger Clemens was worth even more than $5-million-plus a year. And now Dwight Gooden and Frank Viola will discover how much they're worth to the "best franchise in sports" that believes "you never have enough pitching." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 14, 1991, on Page D00023 of the National edition with the headline: SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Will the Mets Sign 'Enough Pitching?'.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »