Advertisement By JOE LAPOINTE The Rangers played half a hockey game at Madison Square Garden last night and looked very good doing it. Their opponents, the Washington Capitals, played for 60 minutes and showed why they deserve, at least for now, to hold first place in the Patrick Division and first place, over all, in the National Hockey League. The Capitals, some of their faces wearing bloody badges of courage as red as their uniform shirts, trailed twice by two goals but scored the last four goals of the game to win, 5-3. Kevin Hatcher scored what proved to be the winning goal at 14 minutes 7 seconds of the third period when several Rangers chose to observe a Captials rush instead of trying to involve themselves in the play. It was Washington's third victory in three games with the Rangers this season. Wild Kingdom "We left each other out there for the vultures in the third period," said Mark Messier, the Rangers' captain, who is playing with a wrist injury and has had better games. "We stopped skating. We left John Vanbiesbrouck to the wolves." Advertisement The wildlife imagery wasn't inappropriate. This was a rugged game with plenty of contact along the boards and in open ice. Darren Turcotte, who scored the first New York goal, left the ice in the second period and headed to the hospital for X-rays of a bruised ankle. He was hurt after being rammed into the boards. Advertisement Rod Langway, the Washington defenseman who plays without a helmet, left the ice in the third period when his face was cut with a puck, leaving a pool of blood on the playing surface. He returned after taking eight stitches. Later in the period, Washington defenseman Al Iafrate suffered a bloody facial cut from the stick of Messier, who got four minutes in penalties. Extra Skater, Extra Goal The penalties took away New York's last best chance to tie. When the Rangers pulled Vanbiesbrouck for an extra skater, Washington scored into the empty net. But the momentum of the game seemed to turn earlier, late in the second period, when Washington goalie Mike Liut slid across the ice and stopped Mike Gartner of the Rangers with a splendid save on a first-class scoring chance. Several Caps called it the turning point of the game because Washington cut the lead to one goal on the return rush. Gartner, a former Capital, analyzed the bigger picture in larger themes.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "When you lose three games in three tries, you have to ask why," he said. "The answer is basically that they have outworked us." Although the Capitals were playing their third game in four nights, they seemed more energetic in the second half. It was the first game in a New York uniform for Jeff Beukeboom, acquired in a trade Tuesday with Edmonton for David Shaw. Beukeboom (pronounced BOO-ka-boom) showed checking and passing skills, mostly on his team's side of center ice. The Rangers led by 2-1 after one period and by 3-2 after two. John Ogrodnick opened the scoring at 4:36 of the first period after converting a pass from Per Djoos. Turcotte made it 2-0 on the power play at 11:33. With Beukeboom in the penalty box for charging, the Caps got one back on the power play at 18:42 when Iafrate scored on a slap shot. Advertisement The Rangers increased their lead to 3-1 at 9:35 of the second period when Tony Amonte beat Mike Liut by one-timing a slap shot. It was the 10th goal of the season for the rookie, the most on the team. After Liut beat Gartner, the Caps rushed back the other way and Todd Krygier scored on a long shot at 16:14 to cut the lead to 3-2. Peter Bondra tied it at 3-3 at 7:40 of the third after a pass from Michal Pivonka. When Hatcher finished a slow-motion breakout for the winning goal, Messier and Amonte were trailing the play. SLAP SHOTS TIM KERRof the Rangers, out since the fifth game with an injured right shoulder, underwent successful surgery yesterday, but will miss four to six more weeks. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 14, 1991, on Page B00022 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; Caps Expose Rangers In 60 Minutes on Ice.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »