Advertisement By MURRAY CHASS Could a young man from the tiny town of Eakly, Okla., find success and happiness in New York? If he sheds his preference for spring training in Arizona, Mike Moore could have the opportunity to learn the answer. Moore was one of nine players who filed for free agency yesterday, and, in spite of his unimpressive won-lost record with Seattle, he is one of the most talented starting pitchers available as free agents this off season. As such, the Yankees will have a keen interest in him. Nolan Ryan, the most remarkable pitcher of his time, also filed and is available, but he will be 42 years old by next season and he is not among the pitchers the Yankees are considering. He prefers to stay in Houston or pitch for a West Coast team, anyway. Bedrosian Also a Possibility Bob Quinn, the Yankees' general manager, has said that the acquisition of Lance McCullers and Jimmy Jones in the Jack Clark trade Monday marked the start of the restructuring of the team's pitching staff. Pursuit of one or more free-agent pitchers also is in the Yankees' plans. Advertisement Moore, who grew up in Eakly (population 250) and will be 29 years old a month from today, is attractive to the Yankees as a starter, and another right-hander, Steve Bedrosian, who will be 31 on Dec. 6, could become the new closing relief pitcher, freeing Dave Righetti to return to the starting rotation. Advertisement Bedrosian has not filed for free agency, but his agent, Bruce Church, said yesterday that lengthy negotiations with the Philadelphia Phillies had not produced a new contract and that free agency might be in the near future. The Yankees, meanwhile, have told Mike Schmidt's agent that they would be interested in the home run hitter as a designated hitter and sometimes infielder. Arthur Rosenberg, the agent, said that a number of clubs have expressed interest in Schmidt, who is 39 and has 552 career home runs. Of the clubs he has talked to, Rosenberg added, the only one that said no to his inquiries was the Mets. The Yankees' No. 1 priority, Quinn reiterated yesterday, is pitching. Asked specifically about Moore, the general manager said, ''We have graded all the free agents, and he's a highly desirable pitcher.'' The drawback in any pursuit of Moore would be his preference for playing with a team that has spring training in Arizona, where he lives.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ''I'm not saying I don't want to play in New York, but the thing that is desirable to me is being able to stay at home for another month and a half,'' Moore said from his home near Phoenix. ''It's not a must, but it's a big plus for me. Other than that, I have no problems about New York.'' Moore, who has a three-year, $3 million offer from his team, the Seattle Mariners, was a 17-game winner in 1985, but until the last two months of this past season he had become better known for his losses. He had 17 in 1984, 19 in 1987 and 13 in the first four months of this season. However, in 12 starts before his last one this year, he compiled a 1.68 earned run average, allowing more than two runs in a game only once. He gave up only 63 hits, walked 18 and struck out 96 in 96Y innings. In a three-game span in that period, he struck out 40 batters in 27 innings, including 16 Yankees. He finished the season at 9-15. Advertisement Billy Connors, the Yankees' new pitching coach, was the Mariners' pitching coach the last two seasons. ''He started putting it together this year,'' Connors said yesterday from St. Petersburg, Fla. ''He had command of his pitches and he got aggressive and went after the hitters. He got confidence back in himself.'' The Yankees would also be interested in Bruce Hurst, the Boston left-hander, as a free agent, but Hurst has not filed and he is supposed to be getting closer to reaching agreement with the Red Sox on a new contract. Jim Clancy of Toronto, one of the players granted free agency by an arbitrator Monday, is another starting pitcher the Yankees are expected to pursue. Besides Moore and Ryan, players filing for free agency yesterday were Luis Aguayo of the Yankees, Scott Fletcher of Texas, Ron Washington of Cleveland, Garry Templeton of San Diego, Dave Collins of Cincinnati, Ted Power of Detroit and Thad Bosley of Californa.  Piniella Talks With Astros Lou Piniella was in Houston yesterday interviewing for the Astros' managing job. He previously was interviewed for the Seattle job. The Chicago White Sox also had been interested in speaking with Piniella, but he sent word to them that he was not interested. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 26, 1988, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: Yanks Still Looking for Pitching Help.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »