Advertisement By JOSEPH DURSO Meadow Star returned to the races yesterday after five weeks of rest and regrouping, and made a resounding comeback by winning the Acorn Stakes by six lengths over Versailles Treaty. The gentle filly, who bowed out of the Kentucky Derby picture after losing in her first confrontation with colts last month, made her return with grace and command at Belmont Park. She restored her eminence among her peers, dominating the first race in the series of three that make up the Triple Crown for fillies. This was Meadow Star's first appearance since the Wood Memorial on April 20, when she met colts for the first time, ran a bewildered fourth and ended the nine-race winning streak that had made her the country's champion filly. But now, with new stage presence and new goals, Meadow Star returned as a star with the old speed. She stayed back in fourth place for most of the mile run, made a stylish and powerful move on the far turn, passed three other fillies and charged in front in the homestretch. Then she drew clear of Versailles Treaty and Dazzle Me Jolie while her main rival, Withallprobabilty, fell out of contention and finished last in a field of six.  Modest Numbers Advertisement Meadow Star's numbers were modest but the best of the bunch. She covered the mile in 1:37 2/5, returned $3.20 for $2 to win as the 3-5 favorite and earned $103,680, which will be donated to the Children's Rescue Fund by her owner, Carl Icahn. Her contributions to the fund passed $1 million this spring and will continue to mount as long as she continues to win. Advertisement "She's versatile, and she can adjust to whatever happens," said Leroy Jolley, who trains Meadow Star. "It looked like the kind of race where there could be a lot of pace or there could be no pace. But she had trained well, and we figured she would run well, and she did." Jerry Bailey, who rode Hansel to victory in the Preakness last Saturday, replaced Chris Antley as the rider on Meadow Star yesterday and orchestrated a textbook race. Afterward, he lavished the credit on the gentle 3-year-old filly.  Mother Goose Considered "She got by Withallprobability with relative ease," he said, "and that one's as fast as they come. I thought she would kick into gear to get by her, but she just galloped. I shook the stick at her a couple of times, but she did it all on her own."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Jolley indicated that Meadow Star's next milestone would be the Mother Goose, the second leg of the fillies' Triple Tiara series, two weeks from today. If she wins that one, she could sweep the series on July 6 in the Coaching Club American Oaks. It's not the series of races that Icahn and Jolley had in mind when Meadow Star won the Eclipse Award as last year's best juvenile filly. But when she lost the Wood, they abandoned their goal to make her the fourth filly to win the Kentucky Derby. Meadow Star's return yesterday was accompanied by some intrigue behind the scenes. Antley became her jockey in March when Jose Santos elected to stay with Fly So Free, the champion colt. Then Antley decided to stay with Strike the Gold, who beat Fly So Free in the Blue Grass Stakes and later in the Kentucky Derby. So, Jolley signed Bailey, the 33-year-old president of the Jockeys' Guild and one of the surer hands in the saddle. Antley finished third yesterday on Dazzle Me Jolie, a 10-1 long shot, about 2 1/2 lengths behind Angel Cordero Jr. on Versailles Treaty. But Craig Perret rode the only surprise in the race, the D. Wayne Lukas filly Withallprobability, who had run first four times and second twice (to the newest star Lite Light). This time, she ran sixth and last, 18 lengths behind Meadow Star. "My filly was running very strong at the end," Cordero said later, "but she was no match for the winner. From where I was sitting, Meadow Star looked very tiny." The Acorn was the opening act in a Memorial Day weekend of marquee racing at Belmont Park, which finally took center stage from Kentucky and Maryland after the Derby and the Preakness. Advertisement FINISH LINE LEO O'BRIEN will have to settle for half a loaf and half a dream, but he still made history. One week ago, his New York-bred colt FOURSTARS ALLSTAR won the Irish 2,000 Guineas, and became the first American horse (bred, foaled, owned and trained in the United States) to win a European classic. But yesterday, with a double coup within reach, O'Brien's New York-bred filly IRISH LINNET ran out of the money in the Irish 1,000 Guineas at the Curraugh in County Kildare. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 26, 1991, on Page 8008003 of the National edition with the headline: HORSE RACING; Meadow Star Returns to Take Acorn Stakes at Belmont.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »