Advertisement By PETER ALFANO and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES So what is the No. 4-ranked tennis player doing in a place like this? Many of the big names on the men's tour were in Cincinnati this week or practicing for the United States Open, which begins in nine days. Andre Agassi, however, was designated to play in the Mennen Cup at Newark Academy, which is across the street from a shopping mall, in a tournament that offers less prize money than a major grand prix event, which makes it a potential payday for lower ranked players. A year ago, Agassi was one of those players, struggling to make a breakthrough, frustrated by his inability to capitalize on a great deal of potential. Now, he is the object of affection for dozens of teen-age girls. Ill-Mannered Crowd He advanced to the final, defeating Yahiya Doumbia of Senegal, 6-4, 6-4. It wasn't one of his better performances of a remarkable year, but few in the crowd of approximately 3,000 appeared to mind. The youngsters, especially, caught Agassi's attention, calling his name during the changeovers between games. Agassi sat, toweling his face, smiling. Advertisement Doumbia, who has moved up to No. 78 in the world in his first year on the tour, was not amused though. He thought the crowd was ill-mannered, cheering during the points, which he considered unsportsmanlike. ''It is sad, very bad, very sorry,'' he said. ''For them, Andre is a star. They would do anything.'' Advertisement Agassi has won five tournaments this year and also led the United States Davis Cup team to victories against Peru and Argentina. With the exception of Mats Wilander, who has won the Australia and French Open, and Stefan Edberg, the Wimbledon winner, Agassi has had the best year, winning more tournaments than any other player. Sloppy and Sluggish He did not think his sloppy play today would hurt his preparation for the Open, even though he admitted that he was sluggish, not as motivated as he would like to be. ''I was going through the motions mentally,'' he said. But I'm doing what I need to do. This is a tough tournament because I'm seeded No. 1 and supposed to win.'' Doumbia has a strong serve and covers the court well. He had seven aces and 11 service winners. Agassi won because he was steadier from the baseline, passing Doumbia whose groundstrokes were erratic, especially his forehand. He was not intimidated, though. He has played Boris Becker and Pat Cash in recent weeks, losing both matches.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Agassi will play Jeff Tarango - a student at Stanford - in Sunday's final. They are not strangers. Agassi said he was 9 years old when he first played Tarango, who was 10. It was in the semifinals of a junior tournament in California. The match was in a 9-point tie breaker, tied at 4-4, when Agassi hit what he thought was a winner. Tarango called the ball out and walked to the net to shake Agassi's hand. ''I remember vividly I was crying, saying the ball was good,'' Agassi said.  SABATINI-ZVEREVA FINAL MONTREAL, Aug. 20 (AP) -Gabriela Sabatini of Argentina beat Chris Evert and Natalya Zvereva of the Soviet Union eliminated Pam Shriver today to advance to the final of the Player's Challenge tournament. Sabatini, seeded fourth, avenged a loss to Evert last Sunday in Los Angeles by using solid topspin groundstrokes to hammer out a 6-4, 6-3 victory. Advertisement Zvereva, a 17-year-old who eliminated top-seeded Martina Navratilova Friday, was on top of her game in beating Shriver, seeded third and the defending champion, 7-5, 6-3.  WILANDER SURVIVES MASON, Ohio, Aug. 20 (AP) - Second-seeded Mats Wilander survived a shaky second set to beat No. 12 Aaron Krickstein, 6-2, 7-6 today and advance to the final of the Association of Tennis Professionals Championship. Wilander's victory assured a Swedish final. He'll play either defending champion, Stefan Edberg, or 11th-seeded Anders Jarryd in Sunday's championship match. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 21, 1988, on Page 8008006 of the National edition with the headline: TENNIS; Sluggish Agassi Advances in Modest Surrounding.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »