Advertisement By FRANK LITSKY and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES An hour or so after the opening ceremonies end, after the athletes have marched off and the stadium has been cleared, the competition will begin in the Games of the XXIV Olympiad. The program Saturday (the time here is 14 hours ahead of the time in New York) will consist of preliminaries in five sports. The first five gold medals will be awarded Sunday, with the United States unlikely to win any of the five and more likely to finish the day with one silver or bronze medal from Michele Mitchell or Wendy Lian Williams. The first competition of these Olympics will be the preliminaries of the women's 10-meter platform diving. The only other events Saturday are 4 games in soccer, 2 in men's basketball, 2 in men's volleyball and 20 preliminary bouts in boxing. No American will box Saturday. When the women's diving begins, each competitor will perform her full program of eight dives. The 12 leaders will advance to the final Sunday (9 P.M. Saturday, Eastern time), where the preliminary scores will be thrown out and each diver will do the same eight dives she did in the preliminaries. Chinese Favored Advertisement The favorites are the two Chinese, Chen Xiaodan and Xu Yanmei; 14-year-old Yelena Miroshina of the Soviet Union, and the Americans: Mitchell of Boca Raton, Fla., and Williams of Miami. Mitchell, a silver medalist in the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics, is physically sound and diving better after a shaky year. Williams, at 21, is the United States champion indoors and outdoors. Advertisement ''In a way,'' said Mitchell, ''it's good that we're one of the first events because then you're on cruise control. Everyone else is sitting there waiting, waiting and waiting and you're already done.'' Sunday's other gold medals will be awarded in cycling (men's 100-kilometer timed trial), weight lifting (114-pound class) and shooting (men's free pistol and women's air rifle). Most of the medals in those events will probably go to the Soviet Union, Bulgaria and China. Basketball Team Plays In all, there will be Sunday competition in 13 medal sports. The United States men's volleyball team, favored to win the gold medal as it did in 1984, will play Japan. The men's basketball team, also favored to repeat as the gold medalist, will oppose the strong team from Spain. The soccer team, which has no medal aspirations, will meet Argentina. The men's gymnastics team will compete in the team compulsory exercises. Its chances for any kind of medal, let alone the gold medal it won in 1984, have been ruined by retirements, injuries and the return of the Soviet-bloc teams that boycotted in 1984. The American boxers begin with two bouts Sunday: Arthur Johnson of Minneapolis against Andrea Mannai of Italy at 112 pounds and Kelcie Banks of Chicago against Regilio Tuur of the Netherlands at 125 pounds. The swimming competition will begin Sunday with four events: the women's 400-meter individual medley and 100-meter freestyle and the men's 200-meter freestyle and 100-meter breast-stroke. Americans are expected to win medals in all four events. Those Americans include Janet Evans of Placentia, Calif., and Matt Biondi of Moraga, Calif., the two prospective heroes of Olympic swimming. Accommodating Television Ordinarily, the swimming program lasts six days. This time, so American television can show more attractive Olympic sports in prime time, the schedule has been extended to eight days.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The typical format is for preliminary heats in the morning and the finals of those events at night. Here, the first four days of swimming will have more competition in the mornings: heats on Sunday, finals Monday, heats Tuesday and finals Wednesday. All those events will be shown on American television the night before, the Sunday heats on Saturday night. Advertisement The 16-year-old Evans is favored to win three gold medals, - in the 400-meter individual medley and the 400-meter and 800-meter free-styles. Her major opposition in the individual medley will probably come from the East Germans, who are strong as always in the women's events, though they do not appear invincible. Fast Finisher After the first two legs of the individual medley - backstroke and butterfly - Evans may not be leading. But she is strong on the next leg, the breast-stroke, and the seemingly limitless strength and energy in her 5-foot-6-inch, 105-pound body should allow her to draw away on the final leg, the freestyle. ''I think the race will be a lot more competitive,'' said Evans, ''and I like that. I'm more prepared now than I was a year ago. Everything has been going good. I don't feel pressure from anyone else. I swim for myself.'' Biondi is swimming in seven events, including three relays, and could win a medal in each. While he expects to swim well in every event, he is uncomfortable with the constant questions about his chances for seven medals. He is not that experienced in his first race, the 200-meter freestyle, and he is also not the favorite. That role falls to Michael Gross of West Germany, the world-record holder and 1984 Olympic champion. Another medal contender is Giorgio Lamberti of Italy. The favorite in the other men's race, the 100-meter breast-stroke, are, in order, Adrian Moorhouse of Britain, Rich Schroeder of Santa Barbara, Calif., and Victor Davis of Canada. Davis, the 1984 Olympic gold medalist at 200 meters and silver medalist at 100, is still angry because he did not qualify for the Canadian team in the 200 meters this time. Angel Myers of Americus, Ga., was one of the favorites in the women's 100-meter free-style until she was thrown off the United States team after she tested positive for a drug. With Myers absent, Mitzi Kremer of Titusville, Fla., has become a medal candidate, but Kristin Otto and Manuela Stellmach of East Germany are the favorites. The competition pool at Olympic Park is the standard 50 meters long. Its modern drainage system minimizes turbulence and leads to faster times. ''It appears to be a very fast pool,'' said Richard Quick, the United States coach. ''I'm very slow, and I swam in it and it felt good to me.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 17, 1988, on Page 1001047 of the National edition with the headline: THE SEOUL OLYMPICS; Athletes Are Ready to Start Competing.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »