Advertisement  THOMAS GEORGE and Special to The New York Times The National Football League owners opened their annual March meeting here today by unanimously approving the 50 percent sale of the Giants to Robert Tisch, the president of the Loews Corporation and former Postmaster General. Tisch purchased 50 percent of the franchise from Helen Mara Nugent and her children, Timothy Mara and Maura Mara Concannon, on Feb. 20. Wellington Mara still owns 50 percent of the team and remains as president and co-chief executive officer in charge of football operations. Tisch is a co-chief executive officer and chairman in charge of finance and administration. "We've talked long hours about the arrangement, and I won't be making many changes; you can't be a lot better than they've been the last five years," said Tisch, who also serves on the CBS board of directors but said that he would not participate in any league matters involving television. The owners also made that a requirement in their approval of the sale. "Obviously it is an emotional thing for me to have a longtime relationship severed," Wellington Mara said. "If I had to have a new partner, I'm glad it's Bob Tisch. Anyone who knows Bob knows he won't be a silent partner. He has many contributions to make to the Giants and I look forward to them." State of the League Address Advertisement In the Monday meeting, the N.F.L. commissioner, Paul Tagliabue, will offer a private state of the league address to the owners and a meeting of the new World League of American football shareholders will be held. On Tuesday, two controversial issues will be decided: whether to move Super Bowl XXVII from Phoenix because of Arizona's failure to pass the Martin Luther King Jr. birthday as a paid state holiday and whether instant replay will survive a sixth straight year of one-year renewal.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Early indications here are that the Super Bowl will be moved to either Pasadena, Calif., or San Diego, the runners-up in the initial vote last March at the annual meeting in Orlando. The Phoenix '93 Super Bowl committee said it would not relinquish the game without a fight. Advertisement "We cannot make the league conduct its business in any particular way, but we hope after we've been heard that the game will stay," said C. A. Howlett, vice chairman of the Phoenix committee. "We'll make one final push and put forward all of the good reasons the game would be a success in Phoenix." Instant Replay Resurfaces As for instant replay, the seven-member competition committee has voted 4-3 against renewing it. Four members of the committee, however, represent four of the seven teams who voted against instant replay last March in a 21-7 vote in which it passed. At least 21 votes (three-quarters of the owners) is again required for its passage. "A year ago if you asked me before the vote if it would pass, I would have said no," said Jim Finks, the New Orleans Saints president and general manager and chairman of the competition committee, who favors replay. "Sometimes in November and December when clubs experience something bad with it is when you hear the cries that it is not good, not important and has too many delays. But once they get here and step back and hear the arguments there is change. If we tried to put it in for good, it would be the death of it for sure. All in favor would settle for another one-year deal." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 18, 1991, on Page C00008 of the National edition with the headline: N.F.L.; Tisch Approval Is Unanimous.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »