Advertisement By STEVEN CRIST and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES No one took much time to savor Personal Ensign's smashing victory against the boys in the Whitney Handicap at Saratoga Race Track on Saturday. Instead, everyone wants her to do it again, and is asking two questions: Will the undefeated filly, having beaten males for the first time, ever try the boys again? Will she have to in order to win the Horse of the Year award? Personal Ensign went to the top of the weekly Horse of the Year poll today. Two weeks ago, she had received just 1 of the 41 first-place votes, but she received 23 today. To those obsessed with year-end honors, her achievement this past weekend was her greatest. More important, though, was that her Whitney triumph over Gulch and King's Swan was her 10th victory without a defeat, making her the first horse since the great filly Ruffian 13 years ago to win her first 10 starts. In victory, Personal Ensign crossed the line from being a nice filly to being a great one. There have been two others in the last 20 years: Ruffian and Lady's Secret. This is not enough for racetrackers, who are among the most demanding fans in sports. When a horse scores racing's equivalent of a perfect game, racing fans are not satisfied until he does it again blindfolded with weights on his back. So the talk has started that Personal Ensign must beat the boys again, preferably in the Jockey Club Gold Cup or the Breeders' Cup Classic. Chance for Retiring Undefeated Advertisement What is more appealing about Personal Ensign, though, is her bid to become that rarest of all things in racing: a champion who retires after a full career without ever tasting defeat. Advertisement She would be defying one of the oldest axioms of racing: ''They all get beat sooner or later.'' It happened once to Man o' War, in the 1919 Sanford Stakes here, and once to Native Dancer, in the 1953 Kentucky Derby. Ruffian won her first 10 starts, then shattered her leg when she took a bad step in the 1975 match race against Foolish Pleasure. None of them ever lost to a better horse, but bad luck caught up to them all. The only great horse in this century to retire undefeated was Colin, a son of Commando. He won all 12 of his starts as a 2-year-old, 11 of them stakes races, including the Champagne at Belmont. The following year, he developed tendon troubles after winning the Withers Stakes in his seasonal debut, but went on to win the Belmont Stakes on a muddy track. He would have been retired, but his trainer, James Rowe Sr., wanted to prove a point. Shortly after the Belmont, betting on horses became illegal in New York State, but Rowe boasted that Colin could draw a full house without mutuel tickets. Colin drew about half a house at Sheepshead Bay and scored a two-length victory in the Tidal Stakes, run as a betless exhibition. He was retired to stud a winner of all 15 of his starts. It is said that Rowe wanted just three words for an epitaph: ''He trained Colin.'' Personal Ensign has three dances left on her card: the Ruffian Handicap at Belmont on Sept. 25, the Beldame Stakes at Belmont on Oct. 16, and a Breeders' Cup race at Churchill Downs on Nov. 5. She is then scheduled to be retired to Claiborne Farm and bred next spring, perhaps to Mr. Prospector. Her first foal would be a 2-year-old in 1992. No Easy Task  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Her three farewell races are far from walkovers, because she must beat three fine fillies she has yet to face: Winning Colors, the 3-year-old who won this year's Kentucky Derby; Goodbye Halo, who won all the major 3-year-old filly races while Winning Colors was running against the boys, and Sacahuista, who nosed out Personal Ensign for last year's 3-year-old filly championship. Personal Ensign will face some of them in the Ruffian and the Beldame, and all are pointing for the $1 million Breeders' Cup Distaff one Nov. 5, one and one-eighth miles for fillies and mares. If Personal Ensign comes into that race 12 for 12, and the leading candidate for Horse of the Year, there will be plenty of pressure for her to pass the Distaff and take on the males two hours later in the $3 million Classic. At that point, her camp will have to make the kind of decision that makes this game so interesting. Lady's Secret's handlers chose the Distaff when faced with that choice two years ago. They won the race, got the Horse of the Year trophy, and sent her through an auction ring for nearly $6 million. This time, the players and the motives are different. Ogden Phipps, who bred and owns Personal Ensign, would not dream of selling such a special filly. He wants to do what is best for his horse and for the sport, and give his filly every chance to be remembered. That means running her in the Distaff instead of the Classic. Advertisement Given the quality of this year's fillies, the Distaff can hardly be called an easy way out. Also, the males had every chance to beat her Saturday. Claude (Shug) McGaughey, who has made every right move in her training, announced a month ago that she would try the Whitney. It is not Phipps's or McGaughey's fault that Bet Twice's handlers decided to skip the Whitney and instead run their colt in the Salvator Mile at Monmouth on Tuesday, where they hope that Lasix will improve his recent poor form. Nor is it their fault that Risen Star's owners decided to take $7 million and retire their colt last month, less than halfway through the season. Personal Ensign already has won her place in the pantheon of great ones, and three more victories in important races against an unusually strong group of fillies would only secure that place. She has the chance to do something that has not been done in 80 years, and beating males a second time would not make her perfection any more perfect. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 9, 1988, on Page B00010 of the National edition with the headline: On Horse Racing; Greatness Proven, Personal Ensign Aims at a Perfect Finish.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »