Advertisement By WILLIAM C. RHODEN and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES Nevada-Las Vegas is the undefeated defending national champion. Georgetown is the unpredictable underdog. But John Thompson, the Hoyas' head coach, said that when they meet Sunday in one of the most anticipated games of the season, Georgetown, the West Region's eighth-seeded team, would not be in awe of U.N.L.V. "We sort of go back to history and believe in the philosophy that pertains a little bit more to yesterday than today: We didn't come to praise Caesar, we came to bury him," Thompson said. "So we didn't spend a lot of time praising Vegas. We're trying to find weaknesses." That set the tone for the second-round game matching U.N.L.V., who some feel may be the best college team in 20 years, against a Georgetown team that may have the best two shot blockers in the college game's history in Alonzo Mourning and Dikembe Mutombo. "The last thing I said to the kids when I left the locker room was, 'Isn't it great?' " Thompson said. "The first time we have a chance to go after somebody and they don't think that we're supposed to win. So we look forward to that opportunity because we've always been in that situation." Advertisement In the other second-round game, Utah, which defeated South Alabama on Friday, will play Michigan State, a victor over Wisconsin-Green Bay. The winners Sunday will meet in Seattle on Thursday in the West Regional semifinals. U.N.L.V. (31-0), which routed Montana in the opening round, and Georgetown (19-12), a victor over Vanderbilt, have met five times with Georgetown winning all five games. Impressed by Rebels Advertisement "The thing that probably impresses me the most is their cohesiveness," he said. "I don't know whether they have a weakness or not. "Vegas is an extraordinary defensive team and an extraordinary offensive team. At times we play reasonably good defense. We certainly do have people who are capable of blocking shots. But Vegas's defense is good also." The key player for Georgetown may be Mourning, the 6-foot-10-inch forward who has been playing better with each game after missing nine games with a foot injury. Mourning, who had never been seriously injured before this season, said the strained arch had taken more of an emotional than a physical toll. "It was more of a psychological thing than a physical thing because I was thinking about things more on the court than I was doing them," he said. "I have to stop really thinking about it and play like I'm capable of playing." Guards May Set Tone  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Mourning finally turned the emotional corner with prodding from Thompson and help from his teammates. "Dikembe speaks five languages and I speak two," Thompson said. "English and profanity. My second language helped to bring him around after my first one was not successful." The game could turn on the guard play. Anderson Hunt and Greg Anthony, the U.N.L.V. guards, have been playing together for more than a year. Charles Harrison and Joey Brown, the Hoya backcourtmen, are freshmen. "The guard matchup is extremely important," Thompson said. "That may be what sets the tone of the whole thing. I'm glad, one way or another, that we have an opportunity to play against them because what can possibly be bad about us playing against them and our kids growing up and understanding what this is about." Tarkanian Wants Intensity Advertisement "Our kids are looking forward to playing Georgetown," said Jerry Tarkanian, the U.N.L.V. coach. "Hopefully we'll be highly motivated for the game and our degree of intensity will be up to where we would like it to be." Tarkanian repeated earlier statements that Georgetown was a team he did not want to face early. "They've been an up-and-down team; they have not played real well all year," he said. "However, every coach is aware that on their good days they can play with anybody in the country. That's the team you always fear because you're always afraid that you may catch them on one of their good days. Their two big guys are probably the two best shot-blockers on one team probably in the history of the game." The Rebels may not be at full strength. George Ackles, the senior center, sprained the top part of his left foot in the first half of Friday's game against Montana. Ackles did not practice today but was expected to play. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 17, 1991, on Page 8008005 of the National edition with the headline: COLLEGE BASKETBALL: West Regional; Underdog Hoyas Not Awestruck.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »