Major League Soccer Commissioner Don Garber added Red Bulls striker Juan Agudelo and Sporting Kansas City captain Omar Bravo to the league’s all-star team with his two picks Saturday.  Agudelo, 18, is one of the brightest prospects on the United States national team, while Bravo was long a fixture for Mexico when he starred for Chivas Guadalajara. The rest of the roster will be announced Monday.  Eleven players were already picked to the team through fan voting for the game against Manchester United on July 27 at Red Bull Arena, though whether and how much they — and Agudelo and Bravo — will play in the All-Star Game will be up to Coach Hans Backe. Sort of. It’s a bit complicated, given the push and pull of injuries, availability and the salary bonuses at work in the background. The 13 players already named include at least one who is hurt (Red Bulls defender Rafa Marquez) and a two (Seattle goalkeeper Kasey Keller and F.C. Dallas midfielder Brek Shea) who probably won’t play because of conflicts with club games in the Concacaf Champions League that week.  But that doesn’t mean Backe won’t have a big pool to choose from. From M.L.S.: Backe and his staff will select the entire game day roster, which will be announced on MLSsoccer.com this Monday, July 18. Backe will determine the starters for the 2011 AT&T MLS All-Star Game based on player availability and tactical considerations.  Under the Collective Bargaining Agreement, a total of 32 players will be named All-Stars. After the gameday roster is announced, the remaining pool of 32 All-Stars will be selected by a combined vote from all players. You have to wonder what Alex Ferguson is thinking about this whole process.  Goal, The New York Times soccer blog, will report on news and features from the world of soccer and around the Web.  Times editors and reporters will follow international tournaments and provide analysis of games. There will be interviews with players, coaches and notable soccer fans, as well as a weekly blog column by Red Bulls forward Jozy Altidore.  Readers can discuss Major League Soccer, foreign leagues and other issues with fellow soccer fans.
	 
			The Goal blog’s regular features, including live match analysis, player ratings from key matches, reader discussion, news and notes and more, can now be found on the soccer section front.Read more… 
			Crystal Palace won promotion to England’s Premier League on Monday. Now the club must retool under Manager Ian Holloway if it is to avoid relegation next season.Read more… 
			When congress opens, FIFA will be dealing with issues from President Sepp Blatter’s possible run for another term to accusations of vote-rigging among executive committee members.Read more… 
			Sacha Kljestan, who just won his second straight Belgian title with Anderlecht, could have a role to play for the United States in its exhibition against Belgium on Wednesday.Read more… 
			Alonso Hernandez, who plays in Mexico for Monterrey but has never represented the United States at any level, will get a chance to earn a place on the Under-20 World Cup team.Read more… Follow Advertisement