The Detroit Pistons have been a mess this season, and it seems less likely that things will get better. Veteran forward Tayshaun Prince expressed his frustration about the team Thursday, unhappy with its 17-32 record. “What can you do from this point? I don’t know, but obviously we need to figure it out quickly,” Prince told the Detroit News. “This is a wasted season because of the talent that’s in this room, what this team is capable of doing, and we are not getting it done.” The Pistons have a myriad of problems. All-Star guard Richard Hamilton is still not playing, despite being healthy, because Coach John Kuester doesn’t want him in the rotation. Prince and Hamilton are on the trading block. Guard Rodney Stuckey, Prince and Hamilton have had in-game disagreements with Kuester over plays, strategy and playing time.

The Pistons have been listless at times, getting blown out of games. Crowds are sparse at the once-sold out Palace of Auburn Hills. And finally, the team is for sale, with the process taking more time than owner Karen Davidson had hoped. Reserve guard Will Bynum agreed with Prince’s grim assessment of the Pistons undone state. “You want to be positive and say there is hope, but things keep happening over and over again,” Bynum said. “What are you supposed to say? Hopefully it gets better, but it doesn’t look like it.” 
			This blog’s regular features, including live game analysis, reader discussion, news and notes from Howard Beck, Nate Taylor, Beckley Mason and others, can now be found on the Pro Basketball section front.Read more… 
			Jason Kidd threw out the first pitch at Yankee Stadium before Game 2 of the Yankees’ doubleheader against the Dodgers, the latest in a multitude of appearances he has made since the Nets hired him Thursday. Read more… 
			With more speed on the floor, Miami smothered the San Antonio Spurs in Game 4, while the Heat’s two biggest stars, LeBron James and Dwyane Wade broke out.Read more… 
			The hiring of Jason Kidd as head coach may be a victory in the war for New York headlines with the Knicks, but it doesn’t seem to be the smartest decision, says William C. Rhoden.Read more… 
			After a news conference on Thursday announcing that he would not run for mayor of Moscow in the fall, Mikhail D. Prokhorov, the Nets’ owner, also said that there was a shortage of N.B.A. coaches with star power.Read more… Follow Advertisement