Following are the responses from Jeff Z. Klein, the national hockey writer for The Times, who this week took questions from readers about the Stanley Cup playoffs as they wind down to the conference finals. We are not currently accepting more questions for this feature.  I’ll tell you what scares me, there are no more senior officials left in the N.H.L. The entire class of 80s referees have retired or been drummed out.  Say what you will about some of them, but they knew when/how to manage a game. Some of the late third period and OT calls have been brutal. I know the league says “if it’s a penalty in the first period, it’s a penalty in OT.” It’s horrible for the players and makes me cringe watching.  — Posted by Jeff P., San Diego  I’ll tell you what scares me, Jeff — all those officials on the ice! Yes, I know that the N.H.L. has been using a two-ref system since ’98-99, and that it has had the benefit of catching a lot of things that happen behind the play. But how many times have you seen a ref or linesman get in the way of a play, like in Game 4 of Rangers-Capitals this month, when the referee Paul Devorski wrecked a Brandon Dubinsky breakaway by tangling up Dubinsky in the second minute of overtime? Here it is, in case you didn’t see it:  
Yo, the ice is crowded enough as it is without having an extra official running around gumming up the works. It’s also at the root of your complaint, Jeff — the N.H.L. needs twice as many refs now as it used to, and there doesn’t seem to be enough good ones to go around. This season, the A.H.L. started using two refs in some of its games, largely because the N.H.L. needs to train more refs. Perhaps more good zebras will make it into the N.H.L. as a result, but in the meantime count on all those extra A.H.L. refs to get in the way of pucks and players. Hi Jeff. What do all the hockey fight websites do during the playoffs? Why is quality of play so superior in the playoffs compared to the regular season? The gratuitous head shots, fights, and general dirty play have appeared to disappear, giving way to the fast, tough, exciting game I love.  — Posted by Charles, Houston Yes, Charles, funny how that works, isn’t it? Obviously 82 games is way too many to keep everyone’s interest up, especially the players. I remember the 1995 season, the one that was only 48 games long because of the early-season lockout, and although it was marred by the neutral-zone trap, it was the most intense regular season I ever saw. Every game counted. Just like the playoffs every year. Games matter, so there’s little fighting, and those fights that do happen arise out of honest emotion instead of contrived posturing. Last year in the N.H.L., preseason games averaged 2.11 fights, regular-season games averaged 0.64, and playoff games averaged 0.18. (You can look it up, here: //dropyourgloves.com/Fights/LeagueSeason.aspx?League=1&Season=2010 ). So there you have it — the more a game matters, the less likely you are to see a fight.  It seems that obstruction is no longer being called on dump-ins unless the defenseman puts out his hands or stick. However, I can’t get a handle on how hooking or holding are being called. Sometimes it seems like they touch a guy and the call is made. Anyway, the big questions: It seems like every shift someone is going prone to block shots; how does this compare with other playoffs?
Will Detroit pull off the second 0-3 comeback in two years? How many times have teams come back from 0-3 to force a Game 7 and then lost the final game? I seem to remember a lot. What is up with goaltending in the N.H.L.? Roberto Luongo hasn’t been stellar but hasn’t had to be like Tim Thomas or Dwayne Roloson. Dare we even mention the Flyers or Caps in talking goalies? If Antti Niemi wins the Cup with San Jose, will he be the only starting goalie to win consecutive cups with two teams?  — Posted by Stuart, New York  That’s a lot of questions, Stuart, but well asked. Hooking and holding? All you’ve got to do is reach out with your hand or stick and it’s a penalty. (N.H.L. Rule 55.1: “Hooking is the act of using the stick in a manner that enables a player to restrain an opponent.” N.H.L. Rule 54.1: “Any action by a player that retards the progress of an opposing player whether or not he is in possession of the puck.”)  Players going down to block shots? Yes, it does seem as if it it’s happening more and more each year. Back in the ’70s, when Sabres defenseman Jim Schoenfeld would go down to block shots and get his ankles broken, it was a big deal. Now almost every player does it every night. Zdeno Chara blasts away even if he knows his shot will be blocked, because eventually, at the very least, the guy blocking it is going to get hurt. Detroit pull off a comeback? Maybe! Goaltending? Thomas and Roloson have been so great that it makes guys like Luongo and Ryan Miller (with mere .917 save percentages) seem mediocre. And Niemi possibly being the first goaler to win consecutive Cups with two different teams? Alas, no — Harry (Hap) Holmes helped the Seattle Metropolitans of the P.C.H.A. to the Stanley Cup in 1917, and in 1918 he was in net when Toronto Arenas of the N.H.L. won the Cup.      Hi Jeff. With only five teams left, how about some one-by-one takes on who you see winning it all. Does San Jose or Vancouver really have what it takes? Will Boston survive losing Patrice Bergeron for even a short time? Can Detroit beat a comparatively rested Canucks team? Does Rollie the goalie have enough left in the tank? Can Tim Thomas steal this whole thing? Jumbo (or not) Joe?  — Posted by Tom Dolan, Los Angeles  Tom, I honestly don’t know! But certainly the Canucks have all that it takes. The Sharks I’m not so sure about — not with Joe Thornton, Patrick Marleau and Dany Heatley coming up short so consistently year after year. Losing Bergeron is tough, but the Bruins can survive it as surely as they have survived the loss of Marc Savard. And yes, Roloson and especially Thomas are superb enough to keep carrying their teams right the way through. And yo, don’t ask me about Detroit until after tonight’s game. Hi Jeff. Like many Rangers fans, I am very anxious to see the Boston College prospect Chris Kreider make his debut in the blue and white, and am glad he is getting valuable experience playing for the USA in the I.I.H.F. World Men’s Championship. In your opinion, what current N.H.L. player do Kreider’s skills compare to? Thanks!  — Posted by Matt Barbarasch, New York Too soon to tell about Kreider. An awful lot of N.C.A.A. stars don’t pan out in the N.H.L. above the third-line level, probably more so than guys who star in Canadian juniors. That said, he’s pretty big at 6 foot 3 and 220, but he’s got a good shot, skates fast and seems to be more of a skill player than a bang-and-crash guy. He has played for Team USA alongside Derek Stepan at the World Juniors (6 goals in seven games for the 2010 gold medal, 4 goals for this year’s silver medalists), but while playing against adults at the I.I.H.F. World Championship, he hasn’t done as well (1 goal in six games last year, 2 goals in seven games this year). I bet Tortorella’s Rangers end up making him a “power forward” who will hurtle into the end boards like a bigger version of Ryan Callahan, or a smaller version of Brian Boyle.  Are you growing a playoff beard?  — Posted by Don Rodriguez, The Bronx It’s not a beard. Have you noticed anything that Claude Julien is doing now with the Bruins that he didn’t display in his time with the Devils? I recall Lou Lamoriello let him go late in the regular season because he felt the team was not “ready” for the playoffs despite a solid winning record. Are the Bruins carried by their players or has his coaching made a difference there?  — Posted by Len J, Newtown, Penn. That’s the $64,000 question, Len. Hard to say. Julien seems like a good coach, but he’s got good players, as you say. I’ll tell you this, though: if the Bruins had lost to the Habs in Game 7 back in the first round, I’m certain he would’ve been gone. To follow last year’s collapse vs. Flyers with another collapse vs. Canadiens would have been fatal to his job prospects in Boston. Dear Jeff: What do you think the chances are that Charles Wang will get the broke Nassau County to foot the bill ($350 million) for a new Coliseum?  — Posted by Paul, Bellrose Terrace, N.Y.  Hey Paul. Well, Wang and the county executive say the new rink will pay for itself, but that almost never happens. Nassau can’t make any expenditures without the approval of the watchdog board that oversees the county budget (the only other New York State county that has had to operate that way is Erie County, so you know we’re talking serious economic problems here). So even if the referendum passes and the bond issue for a new Coliseum is approved, it may end up being nixed by the watchdog board. Jeff, Now that we’re at (or soon to be at) the final four, what will be the factors in determining the Cup winner for this year? Regardless of who wins the San Jose/Detroit tilt, I see four teams with all good chances. Thanks.  — Posted by Dan S., Sudbury, Mass. Good goalkeeping, a strong heart and clean living, Dan. Those are the keys to victory. Do you see a time in the future where every team in the N.H.L. would play each other once at home and once away? It seems the only way to even out the inequities in the current system, i.e. quality of play, and the travel time/time change in the Western Conference.   — Posted by Klars, Dublin, Ohio You talking about the regular season, Klars? There was a brief golden time when such a schedule was in effect: 1979-80 and 1980-81. The N.H.L. had grown to 21 clubs with the absorption of Edmonton, Quebec, Winnipeg and Hartford from the W.H.A., and each team played the 20 others twice at home and twice away, for an 80-game slate. I guess if the N.H.L. grows to something like 41 clubs, god forbid, we might see that again. Hi, Jeff: Since the rule changes after the lockout, N.H.L. games aren’t over when teams have three- and four-goal leads. It’s been a great postseason so far. If you could institute one rule change to make the game even better, what would it be?   — Posted by Garey Ris, Ottawa Hey Garey. My one change would involve penalty shots. If a penalty shot is stopped, the offender should still have to serve a two-minute penalty. As it stands now, only about 30 percent of penalty shots succeed, which isn’t that much better than the roughly 20 percent of power plays that succeed. But I think the punishment for a foul that stops a breakaway should be much stiffer, so give the team that was illegally deprived of a breakaway twice the chance to score. Pretty clever, eh? Slap Shot, the New York Times hockey blog, reports on the Rangers, the National Hockey League and anything that glides quickly across a frozen surface anywhere on the globe, from the snowy prairies of Saskatchewan to the frigid steppes of Russia and beyond, like, say, Phoenix.
 
			Thank you for visiting Slap Shot. This blog’s regular features, including live game analysis, reader discussion, news and notes from Jeff Z. Klein and others, can now be found on the Hockey section front.Read more… 
			With the 65th overall pick, the Rangers chose Adam Tambellini, a 6-foot-2 center whose father and brother each played for the Islanders. Read more… 
			The Devils took Anthony Brodeur, an 18-year-old goalie, with the 208th pick of the 211-pick draft, sending their seventh-round pick in 2015 to the Kings in exchange for the chance to pick Brodeur. Read more… 
			The Islanders sent Nino Niederreiter to Minnesota for Cal Clutterbuck, and took defenseman Ryan Pulock with the 15th over all pick in Sunday’s N.H.L. draft.Read more… 
			The Rangers announced Friday that they would not use their remaining compliance buyout this summer, ensuring that Brad Richards will return to the team for at least one more season.Read more… Follow Advertisement