Advertisement By MURRAY CHASS and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES Throughout history, empires and civilizations crumbled because their defenses collapsed. Tonight, in the civilized city of Los Angeles, the baseball empire the Mets have been building for five years crumbled because their defense collapsed. Contrary to their expectations when they began the season six months ago, the Mets will not play in the World Series for the second time in three years. Their fifth successive season of 90 or more victories has failed for the fourth time to result in the ultimate series. Orel Hershiser, extending a remarkable season, shut out the Mets for nine innings, but they actually lost the game in the second inning. ''That wasn't an inning,'' Keith Hernandez said. ''It was a nightmare.'' In that nightmarish inning, the Mets committed three defensive blunders that fueled a five-run Dodgers' spree that made Hershiser's job infinitely simpler and more rudimentary. 'A Different Pitcher' Advertisement ''He was a different pitcher after that,'' Hernandez said. ''He started throwing hard, hard-breaking balls. He could smell it.'' Hernandez, Wally Backman and Gregg Jefferies, the first, second and third basemen of the Mets' infield, took turns contributing to the erosion of the most solid defense of a league that wasn't noted for solid defenses. Advertisement The Dodgers had a significantly worse defense than the Mets during the season, committing 142 errors to the Mets' league-low 115. In the pennant playoff, however, the Mets committed twice as many errors as the Dodgers, eight to four. The play in which Hernandez was involved did not result in an error, but it was the first of the errant plays in the second inning. After Mike Scioscia and Jeff Hamilton singled against Ron Darling with no one out, Alfredo Griffin went to bat planning to sacrifice the runners to second and third. He didn't hide the bunt; he squared around and shortened up on the bat. Yet Hernandez uncharacteristically remained at first when Griffin bunted. He is the most aggressive first baseman in the league at fielding bunts, sometimes even crossing over to the third base side of the mound to field bunts so he can throw to third base for force plays there. With runners at first and second in an obvious sacrifice situation, the pitcher generally is responsible for covering bunts on the third-base side of the mound. That defense enables the third baseman to anchor at third for a possible force play. In this instance, Griffin, a switch-hitter batting left-handed against the right-handed Darling, did not bunt the ball toward third. He popped the ball into the air between the mound and first base. Had Hernandez been charging as he always does, had he listened to Manager Dave Johnson and played in, he would have been able to catch the ball in the air. He might have even been able to get a double play, catching one of the runners too far off base to get back.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But Hernandez held at first, and Griffin bunted the ball too hard for Darling to be able to catch. It fell safely for a hit, and the Dodgers had the bases loaded. 'It Was My Fault' Advertisement ''I should've been in,'' Hernandez said, readily accepting blame for the hit. ''It was my fault, my stupidity. I thought about it for the next four innings. When he squared, I was too deep. I was reluctant to come in with Hershiser up next.'' In other words, Hernandez didn't expect Griffin to sacrifice with the pitcher batting next. But, he acknowledged, ''That opens up the opportunity to squeeze. In a game like this, they're going to play for every run they can get.'' Hershiser, batting with the bases loaded, hit a grounder to third. Jefferies, the rookie third baseman, immediately thought home-to-first double play. Unfortunately for the Mets, just as the ball reached Jefferies, he sneaked a peek to see where Scioscia was as he ran home. ''I might have taken a quick glance,'' Jefferies said. ''The ball wasn't hit hard, and I knew I had to hurry. I closed my glove too early. The ball didn't come up like I thought it would and it hit off my glove.'' Bases Stay Loaded By the time he recovered it, Jefferies not only had lost whatever chance he might have had for a play at the plate and a double play, but he also lost his chance to get Hershiser at first. The pitcher beat the throw and the Dodgers still had the bases loaded. Steve Sax drove in two of those runners, drilling a line drive past Darling for a single. One out and two batters later, though, the Dodgers had the bases loaded for a third time in the inning, with Mike Marshall batting. Marshall hit a ground ball to Backman, and the second baseman had thoughts of an inning-ending double play. But, he said: ''I slipped. I lost my footing. Just as I went to throw, my feet went out from under me. The field was muddy, wet.'' Instead of heading straight to Kevin Elster, the shortstop, the ball took a looping trajectory. By the time it reached Elster, he was past the base and he had to jump to try and catch it. He didn't get it, and it caromed off his glove to the ground for another devastating error. Advertisement Hershiser scored the fourth run of the inning on the play, the bases remained loaded with one out and John Shelby hit a sacrifice fly for the fifth and final run of the inning. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 13, 1988, on Page D00025 of the National edition with the headline: THE PLAYOFFS: How It Happened; For Mets, as Difficult as 1-2-3.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »