No. 9 seed Samantha Stosur toughed out a 6-3, 2-6, 6-2 over 92nd-ranked German Angelique Kerber, becoming the first Australian woman to reach the U.S. Open final since Wendy Turnbull in 1977. It will be Stosur’s first career U.S. Open final and second career Grand Slam final.  Stosur will face the winner of the second semifinal between No. 1 Caroline Wozniacki and No. 28 Serena Williams in Sunday afternoon’s final. Stosur dominated the early parts of the first and third sets, racing out to a 3-0 lead in the first seven minutes of the match to take control of the opening frame, and a 5-0 lead in the third to all but crush Kerber’s hopes of continuing her improbable run into the final.  Despite the odds stacked against her, Kerber competed admirably and fearlessly through most of the match, dictating play through much of the second set with her aggressive left-handed forehand.  But the more experienced Stosur, who had previously made the final at the 2010 French Open, used her experience to jump out to a decisive lead in the third, seizing control of the match irrevocably.  Stosur had a disappointing start to her season, falling from the top five to outside the top 10. But a surprise run to the final of Toronto renewed her confidence. Stosur celebrated the win and her change of fortunes in typically understated fashion, standing at the net with a big grin toward her coach. 



08:23 PM Stosur Reaches First U.S. Open Final With Three-Set Win
 Stosur survived some dodgy moments at the end of the third set to close out a 6-3, 2-6, 6-2 victory over Kerber, booking a spot in her first U.S. Open final and second career Grand Slam final.  Stosur had led 5-0 in the final set, was broken in her first attempt to serve out the match, and faced break points to possibly slip to 5-3 before toughing out the victory. Stosur, who had struggled through a disappointing 2011 season until a breakthrough run to the final of Toronto in August, looked understandably elated at net, though in her typically subdued fashion. After a second set walkabout (to borrow a term from her native Australia), Stosur seems to have righted the ship, breaking Kerber twice to go up 3-0 in the final set of their semifinal.  The second break Stosur earned was highlighted by an especially impressive inside-out forehand return winner.  Kerber’s level seems to have dropped under the pressure of being a set away from a Grand Slam final, as she is no longer showing her original aggression or consistency.  Kerber is a set away from what would almost undoubtedly be the most improbable U.S. Open final run in history, taking the second set 6-2 over Stosur. After dropping the first three games quickly, Kerber found her range, and has been unafraid to attack Stosur, taking advantage of her second serve and even Stosur’s powerful forehand. While Stosur was frustrated with her ability to break Kerber, she did manage to break Kerber’s racquet, snapping the grip cleanly in half as Kerber tried to return a Stosur kick serve. Seemingly undaunted by the occasion and her poor start, Kerber has gained a large advantage in the second set, now leading Stosur 4-1 in the second set. Still not facing a break point since the second game of the match, Kerber has drawn near-level with Stosur on their baseline exchanges, hitting flat, powerful forehands that have drawn errors from the Aussie. Kerber claimed her first break of the match at love to go up 3-1 in the set, and consolidated it with a hold for a commanding 4-1 lead. Much of the turnaround in the match has also come from a drop in form for Stosur, who has been pounding forehands long and slicing backhands into the net. Stosur is one set away from her second career Grand Slam final, having taken the first set 6-3 over Kerber in 31 minutes. Stosur found particular success at the net, winning seven of eight points when venturing forward. Kerber’s form has rapidly improved since dropping the first three games in seven minutes, however. She only faced one break point in the set, finding good range on her first serve and her accurate lefty forehand.  While Rafael Nadal and Andy Murray soak up the spotlight on Arthur Ashe Stadium, No. 9 seed Samantha Stosur has raced out to a quick 3-0 lead in just seven minutes in front of a decent (but not packed) crowd on the Grandstand. Kerber won a long rally on the first point of the match, but the match has been all Stosur since. Kerber’s lack of pace has given Stosur time to set up her huge forehand, and the Australian is taking full advantage. Moving in to finish short shots with incredible efficiency, Stosur took the first three games of the match easily, though the German underdog held serve in the fourth game to get herself on the board. Journalists from The New York Times and The International Herald Tribune (along with a few dedicated fans) are following the Grand Slam tournaments, on and off the court. They will provide updates, insights, links and analysis while setting the scene from the stands as well as the press room. 
			This blog’s regular features, including live tournament analysis, news and notes from Christopher Clarey, Ben Rothenberg and others, and other coverage, can now be found on the tennis section front.Read more… 
			Venus Williams, ranked No. 63, beat No. 2 Victoria Azarenka in Tokyo on Tuesday, her first win over a player in the top two since 2009.Read more… 
			The United States learned on Wednesday that it would host a first-round tie with Britain for the 2014 Davis Cup.Read more… 
			According to one celebrity marketing index, Andy Murray is the most appealing of the so-called Big Four in men’s tennis. Read more… 
			Sloane Stephens walked the runway Thursday night in the Just Dance With Boy Meets Girl fashion show, modeling the designs of Stacy Igel.Read more… Advertisement