Advertisement Supported by Roundup By The Associated Press Yasiel Puig hit a 410-foot drive for a two-run homer and Zack Greinke won his season debut, leading the Los Angeles Dodgers to a 3-2 victory over the host San Diego Padres on Tuesday. Carl Crawford started the game with a base hit and Puig then hit his first homer of the season on a 2-1 pitch from Ian Kennedy. It was the second time Kennedy has faced the Dodgers since June 11, when, while with Arizona, he hit Puig and Greinke with pitches, inciting a brawl at Dodger Stadium. Kennedy was suspended 10 games and was traded to the Padres on July 31. BRAVES 5, BREWERS 2 Freddie Freeman hit a pair of solo home runs and Jason Heyward added a two-run shot to back a solid outing by Alex Wood as visiting Atlanta snapped a string of 22 scoreless innings against host Milwaukee. MARLINS 4, ROCKIES 3 Nathan Eovaldi pitched six innings and host Miami made the most of five hits to beat Colorado for its second straight win. The Marlins’ 2-0 start hints at an improvement over last year, when they had a 100-loss season.  Miami’s rotation stifled the Rockies for the second straight game. Eovaldi, 24, allowed two runs and struck out six after Jose Fernandez limited Colorado to one run in the season opener. BLUE JAYS 4, RAYS 2 Drew Hutchison won his first start in almost two years, Adam Lind homered, and Toronto beat host Tampa Bay. Hutchison (1-0) allowed three hits, three walks and struck out four over five and a third shutout innings in his first big league game since June 15, 2012. Hutchison, a right-hander, had elbow ligament replacement surgery in August 2012. RED SOX MEET PRESIDENT President Obama welcomed the World Series champion Red Sox to the White House Tuesday, praising their triumph on the field while hailing them as a symbol of their city’s grit and resilience in the wake of last year’s Boston Marathon bombing. David Ortiz presented the president with a Red Sox jersey emblazoned with “Obama” and No. 44 on the back. SURGERY FOR BAYLOR Don Baylor, the Los Angeles Angels’ hitting coach, had surgery on his broken right leg Tuesday, a day after getting hurt while catching the ceremonial first pitch on opening day. Baylor, 64, had a plate and screws inserted in his leg during five and a half hours of surgery. Baylor was hurt Monday while squatting to catch the first pitch from Vladimir Guerrero. The two former Angels are the only A.L. most valuable players in franchise history. FEWER FOREIGN-BORN PLAYERS The percentage of major league baseball players born outside the United States declined slightly for the second straight season. The commissioner’s office said that 223 players among the 853 on opening-day rosters and inactive lists were born outside the 50 states. At 26.1 percent, the share is down from 28.2 percent last year and 28.4 percent in 2012. The Dominican Republic topped the list with 82 players. Venezuela (59) and Cuba (19) rounded out the top three. REYES HURT IN OPENER Toronto Blue Jays shortstop Jose Reyes was placed on the 15-day disabled list Monday with a hamstring injury after just one at-bat. Reyes was hurt running the bases in an opening 9-2 loss to Tampa Bay.  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS