Advertisement By JOSEPH DURSO Bobby Ojeda sat in his hospital room yesterday and remembered how it happened: He was shearing the hedges with an electric clipper about 11:15 Wednesday morning, happy and healthy, earning $750,000 at the age of 30 and scheduled to pitch the fourth game of the playoff for the Mets. Then, in one shattering split second, his world was rocked and his career imperiled. ''I was reaching to shut it off,'' Ojeda said by telephone. ''And the blade hit a branch and backed up on me. Just like that, it sliced into the middle finger on my left hand. I yelled out to Ellen, 'I'm in trouble, I'm in trouble, I'm in trouble.' '' Ellen Mangone, who is Ojeda's fiancee, came running and immediately drove Ojeda to St. Francis Hospital in nearby Roslyn, not far from his home in Port Washington, L.I. After treatment there, he was rushed by ambulance to Roosevelt Hospital on the West Side of Manhattan. His finger, which was shattered and nearly severed at the top joint, was rebuilt in five hours of microsurgery. A Long Road Back Ojeda, who had surgery on his left elbow last year, now faces the long and fateful problem of rebuilding his career. Both he and his surgeons were optimistic yesterday, but they all knew that the middle finger on a pitcher's hand plays a crucial role in gripping the ball, guiding the ball, spinning the ball. And the pitcher called Bobby O is a precisionist who wins by painting the corners and hitting spots. Advertisement ''I guess I'm going to have to go through it all over again,'' Ojeda said, alluding to the three months of rehabilitation he pursued last year after his elbow surgery. ''But I want to get back with the guys and travel with them as soon as I can. To the playoffs, if possible.'' Advertisement Ojeda spent the night in the hospital's recovery room, then was moved into a private room yesterday morning. He received telephone calls early in the day from Darryl Strawberry and Gary Carter. Then he received visits from Keith Hernandez, Ron Darling and Wally Backman. Between visits, he slept and talked with the surgeons who fused the joint and repaired the finger: Dr. Richard Eaton, a hand specialist, and Dr. James C. Parkes, the Mets' orthopedic specialist. They reported that Ojeda was bandaged from the tip of the finger to just below the elbow to protect the finger, and said that he seemed to be responding well.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ''He seems to be in good spirits,'' Dr. Parkes said. ''The first two or three days are critical. But we'll treat Bobby like a person, and whenever he feels well enough to go home, he'll go home. It could happen in a day or so. ''After that, about three or four months of therapy. Then, if all goes well, he should be able to throw a baseball. I'd say next spring he should be able to throw a baseball.'' Will He Be Able to Pitch? Dr. Parkes was asked the ultimate question: But will he still be able to pitch a baseball with finesse and authority? ''I think he'll pitch,'' he replied. ''I think he'll be able to apply pressure to the finger and pitch.'' ''He's in good spirits,'' Hernandez said last night at Shea Stadium. ''He's got a good realistic grip on it. He feels it happened, and there's nothing he can do to change it. So, let's see what we can do about it.'' The Mets were still dismayed by the confusion that arose Wednesday over which finger Ojeda had injured. They said that they had been informed from Roosevelt Hospital that it was the left index finger. Later, after Dr. Parkes arrived at the stadium and reported on the surgery, it became apparent that Ojeda had torn his left middle finger. ''That's a bigger problem,'' Manager Dave Johnson said. ''The middle finger is more important for gripping the ball and guiding it. This makes it more complicated, there's no doubt about that.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 23, 1988, on Page D00025 of the National edition with the headline: Ojeda Faces Long Road Back.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »