Advertisement  Roger Clemens continued his dominance of Cleveland with a three-hitter for his 26th career shutout as Boston ended its losing streak at three games by beating the Indians. Winning a second consecutive start while his appeal of a five-game suspension is pending before Baseball Commissioner Fay Vincent, Clemens struck out 11 and didn't walk a batter in beating Cleveland's Greg Swindell (0-2). It marked the 42d time that Clemens had struck out 10 or more opposing batters. Clemens, who has a 15-2 record in 20 career starts against Cleveland, retired the first 14 batters before Brook Jacoby grounded a single to shortstop Tim Naehring's left with two outs in the fifth. White Sox 4, Tigers 1 DETROIT (AP) -- Jack McDowell pitched a two-hitter and struck out 10, and Ozzie Guillen broke a ninth-inning tie as Chicago beat Detroit for its fourth consecutive victory. Advertisement With the score tied 1-1 in the ninth, Sammy Sosa and Ron Karkovice hit consecutive singles with one out off Frank Tanana (0-1). Craig Grebeck walked to load the bases and Guillen hit a slow roller to second baseman Lou Whitaker, whose only play was at second base. Advertisement Tim Raines followed with a bloop single to center field that drove in two runs. McDowell (2-0) matched his career strikeout high and walked two, retiring 18 of the last 19 batters. Tanana allowed seven hits in eight and two thirds innings, walked five and struck out three. Brewers 7, Blue Jays 3 TORONTO (AP) -- Bill Spiers hit his third home run of the season, a two-run drive in the second inning, to lead Milwaukee over Toronto to end the Blue Jays' four-game winning streak. Spiers, who came into the season with six home runs in 708 career at-bats, has three in 17 at-bats this season. Kevin Brown (1-0) allowed six hits in six innings, struck out six and walked three. Chuck Crim finished with one-hit relief to earn his first save, allowing a two-run homer in the ninth to John Olerud. Dave Stieb (0-2), the loser in both Toronto defeats this season, gave up four runs and six hits in six innings, struck out four and walked one. Cubs 7, Pirates 3 CHICAGO, (AP) -- Mike Bielecki hit a pair of two-run singles and held Pittsburgh to three hits in eight shutout innings as Chicago beat Pittsburgh. Bielecki, who came into the game with a .076 career batting average, singled in two runs with two outs in the third inning after the Cubs loaded the bases on singles by George Bell and Damon Berryhill and an intentional walk to Gary Scott. Advertisement Bielecki drove in two more runs in the fourth. Berryhill doubled and took third Shawon Dunston's bunt single. Dunston stole second and both runners scored on Bielecki's single down the right-field line. Doug Drabek, the National League's Cy Young Award winner, lost for the second time this season as Chicago ended Pittsburgh's winning streak at three games. Drabek allowed four runs and six hits in four innings, walked two and struck out one.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Barry Bonds, the National League's Most Valuable Player, left the game in the fifth inning after he crashed into the left-field wall while catching Mark Grace's foul fly. The Pirates said Bonds bruised his left knee and left thumb. "The knee seems to be okay but the thumb is sore," Pirates manager Jim Leyland said. "He'll miss tomorrow's game but should be ready to play Monday night." Phillies 4, Cardinals 2 PHILADELPHIA (AP) -- Lenny Dykstra matched a career-high with three stolen bases and John Kruk drove in two runs as Philadelphia beat St. Louis for its third consecutive victory. Terry Mulholland (1-1) allowed 10 hits in seven and two-thirds of an inning, walked two and struck out one. Mitch Williams finished with hitless relief for his second save. Bob Tewksbury (0-1), who allowed only 15 walks in 145 1/3 innings last season, walked three in four innings. Philadelphia took a 3-0 lead in the first as Dykstra opened with a walk and stole second. Von Hayes also walked and Dale Murphy doubled home Dykstra. Kruk's sacrifice fly scored Hayes and Charlie Hayes hit an r.b.i. single. Kruk hit a run-scoring single in the third. St. Louis scored in the sixth on Pedro Guerrero's r.b.i. single, but Mulholland got out of a bases-loaded jam when he retired pinch-hitter Craig Wilson on a popup. Braves 7, Reds 5 Advertisement CINCINNATI (AP) -- Sid Bream hit a two-run homer and David Justice hit a two-run double as the Atlanta built a six-run lead and held on for its victory over Cincinnati. Jack Armstrong (0-1) was pounded for five runs in two innings and is 1-6 since starting last year's All-Star game for the National League. Steve Avery (1-0) pitched five innings to get the victory, allowing eight hits and three runs before leaving the game with a 6-3 lead. Terry Pendleton hit a solo homer off Don Carman to stretch the lead to four runs in the seventh, but Glenn Braggs countered with a two-run homer in the bottom of the inning off Juan Berenguer -- a 440-foot drive off the facing of the upper deck in left field. Berenguer finished for his first save. Avery, the Braves' top pick in the June 1988 draft, lost twice to the Reds as a rookie last year. In his debut at Riverfront Stadium on June 13, he gave up eight runs in two and one third innings and lost, 13-4. Armstrong walked Jeff Treadway and Ron Gant with one out in the first, and Justice -- who grew up in Cincinnati -- pulled a two-run double. Bream hit Armstrong's next pitch over the fence in right-center field for his first home run and a 4-0 lead. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 14, 1991, on Page 8008004 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Clemens Blanks Cleveland for His 26th Career Shutout.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »