Advertisement By GERALD ESKENAZI Joe Walton has been so concerned about not overloading his young Jets with too many plays that he admits he did not push them to try to get a big early start. So what happened? The Jets are 3-1. That big early start, fashioned on three straight victories, has propelled them to second place in the American Conference East and the favorite's role today against the Kansas City Chiefs at Giants Stadium. The Jets have been winning even though Walton held back information from the players. ''We're not using a lot of offensive and defensive plays that we might be doing at this time of the year,'' he explained. Small wonder, for on some defensive alignments the Jets secondary includes three rookies: James Hasty, Erik McMillan and John Booty. The offensive line has a rookie - Dave Cadigan - at left tackle and a center - Jim Sweeney - who hasn't played there since 1983 at Pitt. Advertisement Yet, the Jets' only loss was in their opener against New England, when Al Toon, their most valuable player, was sidelined for the first time in his National Football League career. An Old Story Advertisement Quick starts have marked Walton's tenure as head coach. He has produced heavy workloads in training camps and his teams started the season with a full arsenal. This year he cut back the amount of training-camp work, though, and the amount of instruction. This is his sixth season and his September record is now an impressive 16-7, the best mark in the conference over that time. ''A lot of work on his part and our part have gone into those quick starts,'' said Marty Lyons, the defensive lineman. ''Joe's always brought in a lot of people in training camp, and that meant a lot of competition. Camps were always very physical, and that carried over from camp into the regular season.'' But that 16-7 September record has been overshadowed by the Jets' December record under Walton: 4-12. Was that the legacy of those pressure-packed training camps, of too much early work, of players wearing down? Injuries a Key More likely, an extraordinary series of injuries late in the season was the key factor. But Walton has said he himself wondered to what degree the injuries resulted from training methods. The Jets' medical staff has never come to a firm conclusion on the reason. In any event, the workload is lighter. Lyons recalled two seasons ago, when the 10-1 Jets wound up losing their last five games. ''What happened to us in the past were injuries and lack of depth,'' Lyons said. ''The year we lost five in a row, how many defensive linemen were hurt?'' Actually, every starter was seriously injured.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Although Walton believes the injuries were flukes, including the ones that wiped out his entire secondary another year, he also has tried to ease the late-season workload. ''We'll cut practice time down at the end,'' Walton said. Those December numbers, inevitably, will be recalled by fans as the season wears along. Is Walton thinking of how to prevent another collapse? Advertisement ''Without getting into excuses,'' he said, ''if we can stay healthy at the end of the year, maybe things will be different.'' Start No Fluke to Lyons Lyons, who usually is optimistic, doesn't regard this year's start as a fluke. ''What we have now is the depth that we didn't have the other years. And playing around all these so-called young guys has made us play better, too. Our intensity level is high. ''We've always come out of the blocks good, but this is an entirely different team from the ones that faltered in the past. I don't want to take away from the other teams, but this one is different. Things will not bother them. We will not let things happen.'' Walton's favorite saying, during good times and bad, is something he must have picked up in coach's school, ''You're never as good as you look when you win and you're never as bad as you look when you lose.'' But there is an unmistakable undercurrent of confidence, if not bravado, on the Jets these days. Walton and the team are enjoying the underdog status they and everyone else have conferred on them. Walton would not say he is surprised by the 3-1 start. ''I'm certainly pleased,'' he said. ''We have a young team and there's too many games to play. We won't have accomplished a thing until we get to the playoffs.''  JETS HAVE INJURIES The Jets are not healthy in key areas. Jeff Criswell, who committed four penalties against the Lions substituting at left tackle for Dave Cadigan, is likely to start again. Criswell is matched against the Chiefs' top pass rusher, Mike Bell Cadigan is troubled with a sprained ankle. Wesley Walker, the deep-threat receiver who has snared three touchdown tosses in the last two weeks. has been unable to practice because of a rib chip, and his status will not be known until game time. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 2, 1988, on Page 8008009 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL; Walton Keeping Things Simple.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »