Advertisement By MALCOLM MORAN THEY began hearing the question some time after Memorial Day, when the Los Angeles Dodgers took hold of first place in the West Division of the National League and refused to let go. How have they done this? Their lead in the 1988 season has been secure through the Fourth of July, Labor Day and the autumnal equinox. The Dodgers' batting average has improved from the worst in the league to the fifth best. Their fielding percentage, while still ninth, is three steps up from last year. Orel Hershiser built his case for the Cy Young Award with his record 59 consecutive scoreless innings to accompany a 23-8 record. Kirk Gibson's first National League season may have created a new standard for the judgment of a most valuable player. The relief pitchers set a club record with 49 saves, led by Jay Howell with 21. Tom Lasorda directed a team to a sixth division championship in his 12 seasons as manager and a spot in the National League playoff against the Mets beginning here tomorrow night. Fred Claire, the executive vice president for player personnel who took control of the team shortly after the painful resignation of Al Campanis a year ago in April, made the decisions to acquire Gibson and Howell, among others. He could become executive of the year. Advertisement A year ago, the organization was suffering the humiliation of Campanis's televised statement that blacks are not equipped to become managers, the frustration of a second consecutive 73-89 season and the financial shock of an attendance drop of 467,184 over a two-year period. There was also embarrassment from reports that the farm system, the basis of the method of replenishing talent that the Dodger organization perfected decades ago, had run dry. Advertisement So soon after an apparent demise, the question persisted week after week. How did this happen? Let them count the ways. ''The reason we're here,'' Gibson said, ''is because we didn't listen to the hearsay that our bubble was going to burst.'' Steve Sax, now the veteran second baseman, pointed to the substitutes. ''That's the reason we won it this year,'' he said. Mickey Hatcher, one of the players to come off the bench, quickly gave the credit to the pitching staff. He could remember having the sinking expectation, with other teams, that bullpen failures were inevitable. ''You'd have the gut feeling that something is going to happen, and we're going to lose in the seventh, eighth or ninth,'' Hatcher said. ''With this team, we have the gut feeling that we're going to win it.'' Rick Dempsey, the former Oriole catcher who was exiled from the American League, spoke of the synchronization of pitching and defense. ''We're playing a very disciplined game on defense,'' Dempsey said. ''The pitchers are sticking to their game plans. They're not trying to do things on their own. They're trying to work with the defense, and it's all coming together.'' Across the field at Dodger Stadium this past weekend, in the visitors' dugout, Roger Craig, the manager of the San Francisco Giants, remembered the success of two pitchers who were unknown quantities at the beginning of the season. Tim Belcher, the 26-year-old right-hander who came in a trade from the Oakland organization more than a year ago, has a record of 12-6 in his first full major league season. And Tim Leary, a 29-year-old former Met who was 3-11 with the Dodgers a year ago, has a record of 17-11 and six shutouts. Hershiser and Boston's Roger Clemens, who each have eight shutouts, are the only pitchers with more. Advertisement ''That's the key to their ball club,'' Craig said. ''I knew what Kirk Gibson was going to do. But I didn't know Leary and Belcher would pitch that well.'' Leary said the focus provided by Gibson had been an essential factor. ''This team would be good without him,'' Leary said, ''but we could be a great team with him. I don't know if we would be a great team without him.'' The theme has been repeated since the day early in spring training when Gibson discovered a hat lined in eyeblack, disappeared in anger, and transmitted a message. In the months since, that message has been interpreted as this: Gibson kicks mediocre team in pants. Film at 11. The theory finds its basis in post-game discussions in which Gibson has verbally spat out much more than the average distaste for losing. The game Gibson plays holds dozens, perhaps hundreds, of developments that can separate winners from losers each day. Rationalizations of those developments can become the salve that helps a disappointed player advance from one day to the next. Gibson wants no part of any of them. He takes his failures personally. Gibson's outlook was developed as a wide receiver for the football team and an outfielder for the baseball team at Michigan State University. He has taken the harsh demands of a once-a-week sport and applied them to a game that can hold disappointment almost every day for nearly six months. He indirectly applies constructive pressures on those around him by making equally difficult demands upon himself. So the intense approach of a new member of what had been a sub-.500 team was portrayed as the major reason for the Dodger reversal. Gibson's emotional jolt provided a simple, convenient plotline for a long season. His much-discussed value to the group, far beyond that of his 25 home runs, 76 runs batted in, and .290 batting average, may well help him become the most valuable player of the National League. Even if Gibson does not agree. ''I don't have any control over fabrications by the media,'' he said when asked about the significance of his role. ''I think the media, in general, has a way of blowing certain things out of proportion. I think I've had an impact here. But as far as being the reason, I will not accept that. We all play hard. We just have a good mix.'' Late last Monday evening, in the visitors' clubhouse at San Diego Jack Murphy Stadium, the mix possessed the qualities of an adult beverage. Veteran Dodgers who had endured the recent mediocrity celebrated with newer teammates, some who had been unwanted elsewhere. In the midst of the champagne shampoos, Gibson held a bottle as if it contained ammunition, and pushed his way through the hot, noisy mob scene. ''I'm on a mission,'' he said. For months, more than a few observers had already supposed that to be the case. ''The emphasis was on Kirk, but he was never separated from the team,'' said Fred Claire, whose decision to sign Gibson as a free agent last winter was an important step in the reconstruction of the team. ''He was a big part of it because of his tremendous ability. But the thing that matches his ability is his intensity. That's where he fit so well. He fit with the other people on the ball club because their competitive spirits were identical to his.''  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Gibson's contribution, Claire said, is not accurately measured by the number or degree of outbursts, but rather by the consistency in the approach to his business, regardless of the circumstances. ''It just took that day-to-day effort, that day-to-day drive,'' Claire said. ''That's what the ball club had.'' ''He's at that level that I don't think you can go beyond,'' Leary said. ''I'm sure plenty of guys have been there, like Pete Rose, but when he's getting ready for a game, or coming down from a game, he makes everyone else come up to that level, or as far as they can. It's something that's hard to describe. It's a winning attitude. It's an aggressive attitude. You have to have both to win at this level. When he's between the lines, the wheels are always turning.'' Advertisement When the wheels begin to turn, teammates notice. ''You see that,'' Leary said, ''and it's kind of like there's this glow around him. One guy shouldn't have that much of an effect, but he really does.'' But the frequent discussion of Gibson's sudden impact seems to imply that the people already there did not feel the way he does. ''The one thing that has been crying out to be said,'' Lasorda said, ''is that nobody wanted to win more than Mike Scioscia. Nobody wanted to win more than Steve Sax. Nobody wanted to win more than Mike Marshall. They were all here. Nobody wanted to win more than Orel Hershiser or Fernando Valenzuela or Alex Pena.'' Lasorda didn't add this, but then, he didn't have to: Or the manager. The number of letters to the editor concerning Lasorda's waistline is directly proportional to the distance between the Dodgers and first place. The Dodgers won 21 more games than they did a year ago, but the discussion of the manager's role has been minimal. Lasorda has twice been named the National League manager of the year by the news agencies, but never in the balloting of the Baseball Writers Association of America. ''Tommy is one of the big names in baseball,'' Roger Craig said. ''He's a goodwill ambassador for baseball.'' Precisely. A big name. An ambassador. But as a manager? ''Look at his record,'' Craig said. ''Tommy, as far as other managers are concerned, is very well respected. To me, that's the key. If other managers and coaches respect you, you're doing the job. Tommy is like Sparky Anderson. He's married to baseball. You very seldom hear Tommy talk about anything but baseball, and something to eat.'' They talk about the manager's appetite, but not his appetite for winning. ''My job is to give the credit to the players,'' Lasorda said. ''When the game is over and I'm talking to the press, I don't tell them, 'Hey, if I didn't pull a squeeze play in the seventh inning, we wouldn't have won that game.' Now what am I doing? I'm trying to take credit for that victory. ''If I put the hit-and-run on in Los Angeles, and Sparky Anderson puts the hit-and-run on in Detroit at the same time, and Whitey Herzog puts the hit-and-run on at the same time in St. Louis, if Sparky's hitter swings and misses and they throw the guy out at second, if Whitey's guy hits a line drive and they double the guy off, and if my guy hits a little looper over the infield and we've got runners at first and third and nobody out, does that make me any smarter than them?'' Lasorda promotes the team that has made him successful and the game that has made him more financially secure than a left-hander with a major league career record of 0-4 could ever have dreamed. Lasorda promotes the entertainers whose images appear all over his office walls, the restaurateurs who regularly ship him large paper bags stuffed with cholesterol at nearly every stop on the road, and the coaches on his staff who are working, and waiting, for their own opportunities. He pushes the color Dodger blue as if he held the patent. Advertisement Unlike some of his peers, he has not tried to promote himself as some sort of genius, and he has not gone elsewhere to gain a richer deal. ''I was raised to where you appreciated what people did for you,'' Lasorda said. ''Let's think back to 1961. If I don't get a job with the Dodgers when I didn't play anymore, how do I know I would be in baseball today? How do I know? '' Remember what Roger Craig said? ''He's married to baseball.'' Now listen to Lasorda: ''There are two people I will never turn my back on. My wife of 38 years. When we were struggling, we had no money. Who stood by me? Who was loyal to me? Who loved me? Who helped raise my children? My wife. Now everybody knows Tom Lasorda. We've done well financially. What do I say, adios? No chance. Because I appreciate what she did for me. ''And the other one I'll never turn my back on - I told Peter O'Malley the same thing I'm telling you. I will never turn my back on the Dodgers. Because I'm loyal to both of them. I love both of them, and I appreciate what both of them have done for me. ''The only way you test a man's loyalty is through money. I could have gone to other clubs with a lot more money than I was making. If I was only interested in the almighty dollar, I'd have left a long time ago. I've had a lot of offers, too. Believe me. ''No one promised me I was going to be the Dodger manager. I was gambling a lot of money. I felt that my loyalty, my dedication and my hard work would win me the job when the time came. But when you're coaching third base for $25,000 a year, and you're offered $50,000 and $75,000 to manage and be the captain of your own ship, it's tough to say, 'No, buddy.' But I did. So when people say, 'All that Dodger baloney,' that isn't true. ''Some guy says, 'Oh, that Tom Lasorda, he gives you all that Dodger Blue, Great Dodger in the Sky.' I really and truly believe that.'' So who's going to convince the man otherwise? Santa Claus wears a royal blue suit. He resides in a North Hollywood condominium. And this year, Christmas could arrive at Chavez Ravine some time in late October. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 3, 1988, on Page C00001 of the National edition with the headline: NATIONAL LEAGUE PLAYOFF; How Did the Dodgers Do It?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »