The United States national team’s first game since the Gold Cup will be a doozy: a rematch of the Gold Cup final with Mexico on Aug. 10 at Lincoln Financial Field in Philadelphia. Mexico won, 4-2, when the teams met last month, a game you may have heard something about. That defeat raised questions about whether Bob Bradley would still be the U.S. coach the next time the team took the field, but since he is quoted in the U.S. Soccer news release, it’s still his job. Tickets for the game, starting at $38, go on sale next Friday. Kickoff is at 9 p.m. The game will be the first meeting in a friendly for the United States and Mexico since 2008. Some background on the rivalry: The match on Aug. 10 will mark the 59th meeting between the U.S.A. and Mexico. The U.S. has a lifetime record of 15-32-11 against Mexico in a series that dates to 1934, but the U.S. has a 13-8-9 advantage in home matches since 1957. Since the rivalry between these two teams began in earnest in 1990, the sides have played 31 times, with the U.S. holding a 13-10-8 advantage. U.S. Soccer recently confirmed two games for the national team in September, against Costa Rica at the Home Depot Center in Carson, Calif., on Sept. 2, and against Belgium in Brussels on Sept. 6. Corner kick: The only question now is: who will be available to play? With most European teams deep into preseason training, do you think either side will field a full-strength lineup? Do you think they have a duty to after the game the teams played at the Gold Cup? It’s not as if the United States and Mexico play all the time. Goal, The New York Times soccer blog, will report on news and features from the world of soccer and around the Web.  Times editors and reporters will follow international tournaments and provide analysis of games. There will be interviews with players, coaches and notable soccer fans, as well as a weekly blog column by Red Bulls forward Jozy Altidore.  Readers can discuss Major League Soccer, foreign leagues and other issues with fellow soccer fans.
	 
			The Goal blog’s regular features, including live match analysis, player ratings from key matches, reader discussion, news and notes and more, can now be found on the soccer section front.Read more… 
			Crystal Palace won promotion to England’s Premier League on Monday. Now the club must retool under Manager Ian Holloway if it is to avoid relegation next season.Read more… 
			When congress opens, FIFA will be dealing with issues from President Sepp Blatter’s possible run for another term to accusations of vote-rigging among executive committee members.Read more… 
			Sacha Kljestan, who just won his second straight Belgian title with Anderlecht, could have a role to play for the United States in its exhibition against Belgium on Wednesday.Read more… 
			Alonso Hernandez, who plays in Mexico for Monterrey but has never represented the United States at any level, will get a chance to earn a place on the Under-20 World Cup team.Read more… Follow Advertisement