Advertisement By STEVEN CRIST Michael Venezia, a 43-year-old jockey who was planning to retire at the end of this year, died of massive head injuries yesterday when he was kicked by a horse after a spill in the fifth race at Belmont Park. The remainder of the day's races were canceled immediately. Fans silently shuffled out of the park after being informed of the fatal accident, and the other jockeys dressed quickly and waved off reporters as they left, many of them clearly choking back tears. Venezia jumped off the left side of Mr. Walter K., a 3-year-old gelding who had broken his right front leg on the backstretch, less than half a mile into the race on the inner grass course. As Venezia fell, he rolled directly into the path of Drums in the Night, who was racing at full speed under Robbie Davis and could not have been stopped. Ambulance attendants reached the fallen rider in less than a minute, but Venezia had no pulse or respiration. They placed him on a stretcher and drove him to Dr. Leo Skolnick, the track's examining physician. 'Kicked in the Face' Advertisement ''I think he was dead when the ambulance technician got to him,'' Dr. Skolnick said. ''He was apparently kicked in the face. His helmet was intact, and a fall to the ground could not have caused the massive injuries. The nature of the injuries were such that death must have been instant.'' Advertisement Nassau County Police detectives and State Racing and Wagering Board investigators began routine inquiries late yesterday afternoon, but there were no indications that the incident was anything but an unforeseeable and unavoidable accident. Mr. Walter K., owned by the Vee-Nine stable and trained by Joseph DiAngelo, was destroyed by lethal injection because of his injuries and his body was sent to Cornell University yesterday for autopsy. Mr. Walter K. was named in honor of his breeder, the veteran New York trainer Walter Kelley. Dr. Manuel Gilman, the track's former chief examining veterinarian and now the Jockey Club steward, said that Mr. Walter K. had been routinely examined before the race and was completely sound. Venezia had ridden Mr. Walter K. in the gelding's last three starts, and they were the third betting choice at 9-2 in the race yesterday. ''The horse had never had any problems with his legs and he had been racing well all year,'' Dr. Gilman said. ''Mike decided to bail out. It looked like he was trying to jump off, either to save the horse or to save himself.'' In Third on Outside Mr. Walter K. had bobbled briefly at the start but then quickly moved into contention and was up to third place on the outside when he clearly broke down in his right front leg. After two strides, Venezia jumped from the left side of the horse, without having had time to look behind him.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ''We extend our deepest sympathy to the family of Mike Venezia,'' said Martin L. Lieberman, senior vice president of the New York Racing Association, which operates Belmont. ''Riding is a dangerous occupation, as we are reminded of so frequently and tragically. Mike was a representative of the Jockeys' Guild for many years and a leader of discussions about jockey safety. That drives it home even more.'' According to the Jockeys' Guild, a national union of riders, more than 100 jockeys have been killed in racing accidents since the union was formed in 1940. At least seven other riders have been killed at United States tracks since 1980. The last rider to die in a New York racing accident was Amado Credidio Jr., who died of head and chest injuries in a spill at Aqueduct on March 29, 1982. Before that, no rider had been killed in a New York thoroughbred race since 1961, when Roy Gilbert and Sidney Cole Jr. died after riding accidents. Advertisement Venezia, who was born in Brooklyn and rode his first winner in 1964, won 2,313 races and rode the winners of more than $33 million during his 25-year career. He recently said that the highlight of his career was winning six races in one day at Aqueduct, on Dec. 7, 1964. His major stakes victories included the 1978 Alabama on White Star Line, the 1980 Nassau County on Winters Tale and the 1982 Gotham on Air Forbes Won. Planned to Train The jockey, who had won only 26 races this year, had said often in recent months that he would probably retire at the end of this year. He planned to train horses and had already begun breeding them on a small scale. Venezia was generally well liked among his colleagues and, as one of the oldest and most experienced riders in New York, frequently offered advice and encouragement to younger riders. Venezia is survived by his wife, Helene; a 15-year-old son, Michael Edward, and an 8-year-old daughter, Alison. Racing at Belmont will resume today. A memorial service for Venezia will be held in the winner's circle at noon. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 14, 1988, on Page D00017 of the National edition with the headline: Jockey Killed in an Accident at Belmont.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »