Advertisement By MICHAEL JANOFSKY She received another award yesterday. The Women's Sports Foundation selected Jackie Joyner-Kersee the amateur athlete of the year for the second successive year, and only if someone else had won would it have been a surprise. In the last few years, Joyner-Kersee has emerged as America's foremost female athlete in track and field and, in the view of many, the top female athlete in the world. But with greater achievements bringing greater rewards, the pressure to win by any means intensifies. So does the need by some, apparently, to rationalize outstanding performance. In the aftermath of Ben Johnson's positive test at the Seoul Olympics for using an anabolic steroid, other athletes became the focus of rumors regarding drug use. One of them was Joyner-Kersee, who won gold medals in the heptathlon and long jump and now finds herself in the position of answering a question she never thought would have been asked. ''No,'' she said yesterday. ''I have never used drugs. I will put my hand on a Bible.'' Knows Dangers of Drugs Advertisement Amid the swirls of Olympic rumors and innuendo was the suggestion in a television interview by Joaquim Cruz, a middle-distance runner from Brazil, that Joyner-Kersee had used drugs to enhance her performance. He later apologized for the remarks, but they stung Joyner-Kersee to the point of tears and caused her, for a brief moment, to consider retiring. Advertisement ''I do not take steroids,'' said Joyner-Kersee, who grew up in East St. Louis, Ill. ''I never have. It's sad to me that people want to point fingers. I don't do that. That's not me. I wouldn't feel like a human being. I've never thought about taking drugs, even in childhood. I see what they have done to my own family.'' She started to cry. ''My grandmother was shot to death by the man she was married to. He was involved with drugs and alcohol. He shot her. Growing up, I lived across the street from a liquor store and near a pool hall. Every day, something was going on. Some days my father would come home drunk.'' She stopped to wipe her face. ''There are a lot of reasons now I won't even take a drink. I don't feel like putting anything into my body. It took a long time before I would even take an aspirin.'' Joyner-Kersee's husband, Bob Kersee, who coaches the U.C.L.A. women's team and other athletes in the World Class Athletic Club in Los Angeles, was angered by Cruz's remarks and the rumors he heard about his wife. But he not only understood how they could breed in the existing climate, he has adjusted some of his recruiting techniques.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. He cited the example of Gail Devers-Roberts, an athlete at U.C.L.A. who made the Olympic team in the 100-meter hurdles. She improved so much this summer that she twice lowered the American record, which she now shares, 12.61 seconds, with Joyner-Kersee. When he recruited Devers-Roberts, he told her and her family that along with improvement will come suspicions and accusations. ''At some point,'' he recalled telling the family, ''someone will point to you and say, 'There goes another athlete who uses steroids.' '' Both Kersee and his wife blamed jealousy and ignorance for the proliferation of rumors and innuendo. Other athletes, they agreed, must have ways to rationalize a competitor's achievement, especially athletes whose own abilities have denied them medals or records. After Cruz made his remarks, Joyner-Kersee filled five pages of the journal she kept through the Olympics. She has recorded thoughts in such a form for years. ''I wrote that there was nothing I could do to change the opinion of anyone,'' she said. ''I questioned whether maybe it was the work of the devil, trying to distract me from what I can do, testing my faith. But down deep, I knew I didn't do anything wrong.'' The Women's Sports Foundation also honored Susan Butcher as professional athlete of the year for the second consecutive year. Butcher won the Iditarod sled dog race for the third year in a row. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 18, 1988, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: Joyner-Kersee Fights Steroid Rumors.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »