Advertisement By KAREN CROUSEAPRIL 2, 2014
 RANCHO MIRAGE, Calif. —  The week of the Founders Cup in Arizona, Karrie Webb sat for an interview with filmmakers for a feature-length documentary on the 13 women who started the Ladies Professional Golf Association. The project intrigued Webb, a seven-time winner of major tournaments and a World Golf Hall of Fame member whose excellence in the game is surpassed only by her encyclopedic knowledge of its history. Those who see her only on the golf course often get the wrong impression about Webb, whose game face is straight out of an Edvard Munch painting. Off the course, her angst gives way to a historian’s cool appraisal of the game. After Stacy Lewis posted a string of 13 consecutive top-10 finishes that was snapped in Singapore in March, some people mused that it must be some kind of record until Webb quietly mentioned to Lewis that she had recorded 16 in a row in 1998-99. Asked recently how she has managed to return to the winner’s circle at the advanced age of 39, Webb, who has two titles in four 2014 tour starts, pointed out that Juli Inkster won eight events, including two majors, after turning 40. “I wouldn’t have known that,” Inkster, 53, said, adding, “But Webbie knows the history of the game, knows a lot about it.” Advertisement The past is important to her, but so is the future, which is why Webb, who turns 40 in December, is on the L.P.G.A.’s board of directors. During a meeting in which the fine print of the new season-long points race was discussed, Webb advocated a system that would avoid a repeat of what happened in 1998, when Se Ri Pak won two majors but lost the points-based Player of the Year award to Annika Sorenstam. “She gets what she needs to do to make the L.P.G.A. a better place,” Inkster said, adding, “She really thinks things through.” Webb will seek her eighth major title at this week’s Kraft Nabisco Championship. She made her debut in the event two years after the 1994 death of the tournament’s inimitable host Dinah Shore, yet has kept alive her memory by advocating that Shore’s name be returned to the event’s title. Advertisement Webb, the 2000 and 2006 champion, did not have to meet Shore, a big-band singer and television star, to know how much the tournament, the first to feature a $100,000 purse, meant to women’s golf. The sport’s legacy never stopped mattering to Webb even as she built and buffed her own. It is why, after she came from six strokes back to win the Founders Cup last month, she decided on the spot to donate $25,000 of her $225,000 check to help finance the film on the L.P.G.A.’s original 13. “It’s so Karrie,” said Paige Mackenzie, another player on the L.P.G.A. board. “She loves this tour and has such respect for its history.” Charlene Fisk, the director and executive producer, said she was floored by Webb’s gesture. “We were totally shocked and overcome,” she said. “We’ve been trying to raise money for the last few months. The fact she understood how important the film is, it’s like she embodies everything the founders stood for; their certain passion for the game, their camaraderie and drive and their family kind of bond.” Fisk insisted on giving an executive producer credit to Webb, who was overjoyed. She told Fisk the story of using some of her golf earnings, now well over $18 million, to renovate the movie theater in her small hometown, Ayr, Australia.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Webb’s golf story was made for the big screen. She won the Women’s British Open in 1995 at 20, before she joined the L.P.G.A. Tour. In a three-year stretch beginning in August 1999, Webb won six major titles. At 24, she ascended to No. 1 in the world. Webb was so dominant she drew comparisons to Tiger Woods. “I think when you play without fear or without knowing what you’re doing, you sometimes can achieve things that you don’t achieve as easily when you get older,” Webb said. After 2002, fear and insecurities crept into Webb’s game. She had one victory in 2003 and 2004 and none in 2005, the year she was inducted into the World Golf Hall of Fame. Her world ranking dropped to 27. “I guess I meandered there for a little while,” Webb said. “But winning here early in 2006, in the fashion that I won, I think really turned everything around for me.” Advertisement At the 2006 Kraft Nabisco Championship, Webb holed a pitching wedge from 116 yards for an eagle on the par-5 18th on the final day, then defeated Lorena Ochoa in sudden death. Michelle Wie, who finished one stroke out of the playoff, on Tuesday described Webb’s pitch shot as her “most memorable memory” from her years playing here. On Monday, Webb played a practice round with two 17-year-old amateurs from Australia, Minjee Lee and Su Hyun Oh. “They asked me when we were on 18 where I made the shot from,” Webb said. Her caddie, she said, consulted his yardage book and pointed to the spot in the fairway where Lee’s mother was standing. Webb has been at seven majors since. She would love to win her eighth this week, but she knows better than to try too hard. Whether she succeeds or not, her legacy is secure. That is what she keeps reminding herself. “I have less majors in me now than I did when I was 20,” Webb said. “So obviously I’d like to play well in them and sometimes tend to put a bit too much pressure on myself.” A version of this article appears in print on April 3, 2014, on Page B16 of the New York edition with the headline: A Student of the Game, on the Course and Off.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »