Advertisement By SAM GOLDAPER The story goes that when Ben Johnson was 12 years old, he and a friend were walking down a street in Jamaica. From the dark recess of a doorway, an old man who was a fortune teller stepped out. After examining Johnson's hand, the fortune teller said, ''One day you will be famous and travel the world.'' That prophecy came to pass for Johnson, the second youngest of six children. He was born on Dec. 30, 1961, to Gloria and Ben Johnson in Falmouth, on Jamaica's north coast. His childhood was one that might not be associated with someone who won the 100-meter dash at the Seoul Olympics last Saturday in a world-record time of 9.79 seconds. Naturally Shy Johnson was a weak infant and a childhood stutterer. The combination of his Jamaican accent and a natural shyness later made him a man who quietly worked within his limits. He has always presented himself publicly primarily through his running. Little in Johnson's background prepared him for the fame his talent generated. By local standards, the Johnsons lived well. For more than 30 years, Johnson's father worked for the telephone company in Jamaica, installing and repairing phones. To augment his salary, the family raised chickens, ducks and pigs. Advertisement Like many Jamaicans, Gloria Johnson wanted more for her children, and she left Jamaica alone in 1972 and settled in Toronto. She sent all the money she earned back home. Four years later, her children joined her in Canada. Dislikes Training  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Johnson started to compete in track and field at Yorkdale High School in Toronto. But he hated to train. Charlie Francis, his coach, encouraged him to lift weights, but Johnson hated that, too. Advertisement Johnson became a Canadian citizen when he was 18, and in 1980, he was selected for the Canadian team that later boycotted the Moscow Games. In the 1984 Games in Los Angeles, he made it to the final in the 100, and he won the bronze medal in that event and in the 400-meter relay. Unhappy with his third-place finish in the 100, which was won by Carl Lewis, Johnson promised his mother that he would do better. And so was born the rivalry between Johnson and Lewis for the distinction of being the world's fastest human. Going into the final Saturday in Seoul, Johnson held the world record for the 100-meter dash at 9.83 seconds, which he set at the world championships in Rome in August 1987. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 27, 1988, on Page D00031 of the National edition with the headline: A Stellar Career Abruptly Clouded.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »