Advertisement  EARLY last month, Mike Kelley, a sophomore at Arizona State, was named the 1990 Baseball America player of the year as the country's best college player, joining an impressive list of previous winners, including Dave Magadan of the Mets, the 1983 winner; Oddibe McDowell of the Atlanta Braves (1984), Pete Incaviglia of the Texas Rangers (1985), Casey Close (1986), Robin Ventura of the Chicago White Sox (1987), John Olerud of the Toronto Blue Jays (1988) and Ben McDonald of the Baltimore Orioles (1989). Casey Close? Whatever happened to Casey Close? The story, to current and former employees of the Yankees and probably most Yankee fans, may sound all too familiar. Close hit .440 and set team records for r.b.i. (72), slugging percentage (.869) and home runs (19) in his award-winning season at the University of Michigan. ''My senior year was a dream season,'' Close said. ''If we needed a home run, I hit a home run. If we needed a hit, I came through in the clutch.'' Advertisement Close, the Yankees' seventh-round draft choice in 1986, played all but a month of the 1988 season in his hometown, Columbus, Ohio, for the Yankees' Class AAA affiliate, where he hit only .188 with 3 home runs and had 25 r.b.i. After working with the Columbus squad in spring training last year, Close, a left fielder, looked up and, he recalled, ''suddenly there were all these Triple-A outfielders.'' Advertisement Kevin Maas and Hal Morris, left-handed power-hitting first basemen held up behind Don Mattingly, were being tried in the outfield. John Fishel had just been obtained from the Houston Astros. And Deion Sanders and Bernabe Williams were moving quickly through the farm system. Close was told he would start the season in Class AA Albany.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Class AA was not in Close's plans, and he told that to George Bradley, the Yankees' vice president in charge of player personnel and scouting. Bradley, who could have forced Close to go to Albany or leave baseball for a year, granted him his release. A month later, Close signed with the Calgary Cannons, the Class AAA affiliate of the Seattle Mariners, where the dreams ran much as they did three years before. ''It was one of those exceptional years,'' said Dan Warthem, pitching coach for the Cannons. ''You couldn't get the kid out.'' Close has cooled from a .333 batting average with 7 home runs and 56 r.b.i. last year to .253 this season (7 home runs and 46 r.b.i.), but Warthem attributes that to luck as much as anything. ''All he has to do is catch fire,'' Warthem said of Close's prospects of making the major leagues. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 16, 1990, on Page C00002 of the National edition with the headline: SPORTS WORLD SPECIALS: BASEBALL;   Waiting to Click.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »