Advertisement  AP Zane Smith threw the Pittsburgh Pirates' second one-hitter in three days in a 6-0 victory over the St. Louis Cardinals tonight. Smith's one-hitter came two days after Doug Drabek one-hit the Cardinals in an 8-0 victory. It was the second one-hitter of Smith's career and second in 20 starts with the Pirates. He held the Mets to one hit last Sept. 5. It also gave the Pirates their first three-game sweep of the Cardinals at Busch Stadium on their first visit since clinching the National League East title Sept. 30. They have won 6 straight and 9 of their last 10 in St. Louis. Smith (7-2) won for the fifth time in six starts and lowered his earned run average to 2.19. The only hit he allowed was a one-out triple in the third by Jose Oquendo, who snapped an 0-for-30 slump when his shallow fly ball fell between second baseman Jose Lind and right fielder Mitch Webster. Twins 9, Rangers 1 Advertisement ARLINGTON, Tex. (AP) -- Nolan Ryan wasn't sharp in his return from the disabled list and not good enough to beat Jack Morris, who pitched a four-hitter as Minnesota beat Texas. Advertisement A three-run homer by Greg Gagne, who had four r.b.i., was the big hit off Ryan (3-4), who was pitching for the first time since straining a shoulder muscle on May 13. Ryan went four innings, allowed five runs on five hits, struck out four and walked one. Morris (5-5) has won five of his last six decisions after an 0-3 start. He struck out a season-high eight and walked two in his third complete game. The loss was the second straight for Texas, which had won 14 straight before being shut out, 3-0, Tuesday night. Ryan's earned run average jumped from 2.94 to 3.56. The 44-year-old right-hander, who pitched his seventh career no-hitter on May 1, missed two starts while on the disabled list. Angels 8, White Sox 4 CHICAGO (AP) -- Chuck Finley became the first American League pitcher to win eight games, and hot-hitting Dave Winfield led California's 15-hit attack as the Angels beat an error-prone Chicago. Wally Joyner had the tie-breaking r.b.i. in California's six-run sixth inning, during which the White Sox committed two of their four errors. Winfield was 3 for 5 with his eighth homer. He has 8 hits in his last 11 times at bat and has hit two homers in two nights at Comiskey Park. Finley (8-2) survived a four-run Chicago fourth to beat Greg Hibbard (3-3). Finley gave up 10 hits in six and one-third innings, striking out 9 and walking 2. Phillies 2, Expos 1 Advertisement PHILADELPHIA (AP) -- Charlie Hayes, who earlier snapped an 0-for-31 streak, led off the eighth inning with a home run to give Philadelphia the victory. Hayes's fifth homer came on a 1-0 pitch from Barry Jones (2-2), and made a winner of Terry Mulholland (6-3).  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In the fifth, the Phillies' Dale Murphy led off with his 2,000th career hit, a fly ball in short right field that fell between three Expos and bounced into the stands for a ground-rule double. Giants 6, Reds 1 SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -- Matt Williams hit a wind-blown opposite-field homer as San Francisco scored four runs in the seventh inning and won for the fourth time in five games. Willie McGee drove in three runs with two hits for the Giants. Mariners 8, Royals 0 SEATTLE (AP) -- Brian Holman pitched a four-hitter and Pete O'Brien homered as Seattle ended a seven-game losing streak. O'Brien, Greg Briley and Omar Vizquel each had two runs batted in for the streaky Mariners, who have had winning streaks of eight, six and six games this season as well as losing streaks of seven, six and five games. The Royals had their four-game winning streak snapped. The Mariners broke open a 2-0 game by sending 11 batters to the plate in a six-run seventh against Storm Davis. The loss was just the second in six games for the Royals under Hal McRae, their new manager. Holman (2-2) pitched his second shutout of the season and the fifth of his career. All four of the hits he gave up were singles. Holman struck out six and walked four in beating Mike Boddicker (3-4), who just came off the 15-day disabled list for an inflamed elbow. Blue Jays 8, Athletics 3 Advertisement TORONTO (AP) -- Joe Carter hit a game-tying two-run homer and Devon White had a run-scoring single in the decisive sixth inning. Toronto ended its three-game losing streak and Oakland's four-game winning streak. Jimmy Key (7-2) allowed three runs on eight hits in six innings. He struck out three and walked two. Tom Henke, the fourth Toronto pitcher, came on to retire Rickey Henderson with the bases loaded and the Blue Jays ahead, 5-3, in the eighth. Orioles 2, Indians 1 BALTIMORE (AP) -- Bob Melvin drove in the tie-breaking run in the seventh inning as Baltimore won a series for only the second time this season. Cal Ripken had three hits, including a homer, for Baltimore, which matched its longest streak of the season by winning a second straight game. Cleveland has lost 5 of its last 7 games. Brewers 6, Tigers 2 MILWAUKEE (AP) -- B. J. Surhoff had three r.b.i., including two on a triple in a four-run fourth inning and Jaime Navarro won his third straight decision. Navarro (5-2) allowed six hits, walked one and struck out six. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 30, 1991, on Page B00014 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Smith Follows Drabek's Act And Tosses Another One-Hitter.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »