Advertisement By BEN SHPIGEL and ZACH SCHONBRUNAPRIL 4, 2014
 ARLINGTON, Tex. —  Whether Connecticut has better 3-point shooters than Florida, or better rebounders or ball handlers, is up for debate. This much about their matchup Saturday night, though, is unassailable: The Huskies are the superior free-throw shooting team. UConn has reached the national semifinals, sealing three of its four victories in the final minutes, because of its success at the foul line. During the N.C.A.A. tournament the Huskies have made 88 percent (81 of 92) of their free throws, including 93 percent (41 of 44) across two games at Madison Square Garden last weekend. Florida, by contrast, has made 74 percent. Connecticut’s comfort at the foul line stems in part from a drill discovered — and adapted — by the associate head coach Glen Miller. He found a video on the Internet of Steve Nash trying to make as many free throws as he could in 60 seconds. “If you’ve got to shoot it quick, you catch the ball, you’re not dipping the ball below your waist,” Miller said. “It gets rid of all the excess motion in the shot, which, when you do that, it really helps you have good rhythm and timing.” Advertisement Whenever the Huskies transition to a different drill in practice, guard Ryan Boatright said, they shoot free throws. During that time, they must make 17 free throws in a minute. Anyone who does not must sprint the length of the court and back. Advertisement Over the course of a practice each player takes about 100 free throws during the Nash drill, Miller said, but everyone tends to shoot more afterward. “Literally, you walk in and you’re just going to see someone shooting free throws,” center Phillip Nolan said. EMERGING STAR It was hard to imagine the week getting any sweeter for Frank Kaminsky III, Wisconsin’s overnight sensation, but Friday happened to be his 21st birthday. How did Kaminsky, nicknamed Frank the Tank, wind up celebrating? “Didn’t really work out,” Kaminsky said. “Found myself falling asleep.” Kaminsky, a 7-foot center who was named the West Region’s most outstanding player, leads the Badgers in scoring and rebounding. He also leads the team in one-liners during this tournament, saying Friday that his biggest battle in high school was “with doorways.” “Learning to duck,” Kaminsky said. Before facing Arizona in the Round of 8, Kaminsky deadpanned his description of this Wisconsin team. “White guys,” he said. But the emergence of the self-described “goofy kid” into an X-factor for the Badgers has not been a joke. He was a first-team All-Big Ten member this season, his junior year, bumping his scoring average up by nearly 10 points while playing three times as many minutes.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Kaminsky presents Kentucky a unique threat: He was fourth on the team in 3-point attempts this season, making 37.8 percent of them, but certainly has the length to challenge inside. Lately, Kaminsky’s name has even emerged on some N.B.A. draft boards, which left him chuckling, considering he arrived at Wisconsin anticipating not playing at all his freshman year (he wound up averaging 7.7 minutes). Advertisement The senior Ben Brust said Kaminsky had “grown into his body” since then, thanks to time, physical maturation, and strength and conditioning work. “We’ve just enjoyed watching Frank do his thing,” Brust said. “I really think his development through the second half of the season, after we hit a little losing streak, has really helped carry us.” Kaminsky credited Coach Bo Ryan for helping him understand how he fit in the Badgers’ complicated system and staying patient with him. At times, things were frustrating. But lately it seems just about everything has turned in Kaminsky’s favor. “It’s been trial and error with a lot of the things I’ve been doing this season,” he said. “I’ve found things that have been working for me, so I’m going to keep going with it.”  ZACH SCHONBRUN BAD AS BARKLEY As a way to unwind after their flight to Texas, the Kentucky Wildcats went to the driving range Wednesday night to cut loose and take some hacks. The resulting video of center Dakari Johnson attempting — emphasis on attempting — to swing a club quickly went viral in Kentucky’s Big Blue Nation fan circles. “Dakari Johnson has the worst golf swing I’ve seen since Charles Barkley,” senior Jon Hood said. “We aren’t golfers,” guard Aaron Harrison said. “Let’s just say that.”  ZACH SCHONBRUN A version of this article appears in print on April 5, 2014, on Page D6 of the New York edition with the headline: Pro’s Example Keeps Connecticut’s Foul Shooting Sharp.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »