Advertisement By ANDREW DASMARCH 12, 2014
 The 2014 World Cup begins on June 12, when Brazil plays Croatia in the opening match. Reporters and editors for The New York Times will count down to the start of the tournament each day with a short capsule of news and interesting tidbits. It will be a couple of months before United States Coach Jurgen Klinsmann announces which players he will take to the World Cup, but there was confirmation on Tuesday that at least one player would not be going to Brazil: Stuart Holden. Holden, the oft-injured midfielder whose injuries have kept him off the field for the better part of the past four years, had yet another knee operation on Monday in California. His English club, Bolton, announced the news and said Holden, 28, would miss six to nine months. “Unfortunately, Stuart’s knee has gone,” Bolton Manager Dougie Freedman said in a statement posted on the team website. “His surgeon has had a look and has deemed this to be the best course of action.” Advertisement Holden’s latest injury came a little more than a week ago, when he was forced out of an under-21 rehabilitation game against Everton after only 30 minutes. That game had been his first action since July, when he tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee while playing for the United States in the Concacaf Gold Cup final. Back then, Holden’s return to the field had sparked hope that his injuries were finally behind him.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. He sustained a broken leg in 2010 and a  serious knee injury in 2011. He came back again in early 2013, making a handful of appearances for Bolton and a few more during a loan to Sheffield Wednesday -- progress that was encouraging enough to prompt his return to the national team. But his luck turned again last July, and last week. “We’re all obviously very disappointed for Stuart,” Freedman said, “but he’s a warrior and a fighter and someone who knows exactly what he wants to achieve.” Advertisement Holden vowed to persevere — yet again — in a posting on his Facebook page. And it’s not all black clouds in his life: He and his girlfriend, Karalyn West, announced in matching Twitter posts on Tuesday that they were engaged. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »