Advertisement  Here is how the relationship developed between George Steinbrenner and Howard Spira, leading to the decision yesterday to end Steinbrenner's control over the Yankees. Dec. 2, 1986: Spira and Steinbrenner meet in Tampa for the first time. Dec. 30, 1986: Spira and Steinbrenner meet in Tampa for the first time. April 29, 1987: Spira meets with Steinbrenner in his office in Tampa and discusses information Spira has gathered on Dave Winfield. June 16, 1987: Spira; William Dowling, a Steinbrenner lawyer, and Philip McNiff, a Steinbrenner aide in Tampa, go to the office of Robert Morgenthau, the manhattan district attorney, with allegations about the David M. Winfield Foundatin. Advertisement Sept. 6, 1989: Arbitration results in settlement of lawsuits by the foundation and Steinbrenner against each other.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Jan. 8, 1990: Steinbrenner pays Spira $40,000. Spira says the payment was for information damaging to Winfield; Steinbrenner subsequently offers a variety of reasons for making the payment. Advertisement March 8, 1990: Agents for the Federal Bureau of Investigation raid Spira apartment in the Bronx and confiscate tapes he had made of telephone conversations. March 23, 1990: Spira is indicted by a Federal grand jury in Tampa on eight counts of trying to extort money from Steinbrenner and threatening to harm Steinbrenner and Winfield. April 5, 1990: Spira pleads not guilty at his arraignment in Tampa. May 18, 1990: The judge in Tampa, orders the extortion case moved to New York, granting a motion by Spira's lawyer. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this chronology appears in print on July 31, 1990, on Page B00009 of the National edition with the headline: Decision on Steinbrenner;   What Led to the Downfall.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »