 Marcelo’s angry foul on Barcelona’s Cesc Fabregas, which marred the end of Wednesday’s Spanish Supercup final, was an unnecessary attack given it occurred moments before the whistle in a game his team was about to lose. But it was also the latest black mark on a Real Madrid team that, under Jose Mourinho, has become known more for its indefensible outbursts and its postgame complaining than it has for its sometimes unbeatable play. Fabregas let Marcelo off the hook for his takedown, attributing it to the fevered nature of the rivalry. (He no doubt would have been less forgiving if the tackle had snapped his leg, which it could have.) But his teammates were furious. “Real Madrid should be concerned about the image it is giving; it’s very damaging,” Barcelona midfielder Xavi said. “Marcelo’s tackle has no place in football. Totally shameless, a real shame for football in general this image generated by Real Madrid.” Defender Gerard Pique placed the blame squarely at the feet of Mourinho. “Mourinho is destroying Spanish football,” Pique said. “It’s not the first time and it’s always a number of players and the same ones, so there has to be some way of stopping them. I hope they adopt the necessary sanctions.”

Is it embarrassment, or jealousy, or something else that drives Mourinho and his players to lash out? Real Madrid has played seven games against Barcelona since last November. It has won only one of those games, but has managed to have a player sent off in five. That, apparently, is an even trade for Mourinho. “I won’t say we’re not happy about not winning the Supercup because that would make me a hypocrite,” he said, before adding, “but I’m very happy with the evolution of the team.” Rather than credit Barcelona’s play over the last year, Mourinho has attributed its success to a mysterious bias from referees and UEFA in favor of Barcelona, comments that earned him a five-match suspension. Marcelo’s foul was tougher to explain away. (He was lucky to still be in the game after an earlier kick to the ribs that dropped Lionel Messi.) Real Madrid’s fans contend argue correctly Barcelona’s players dive to earn calls, a dubious charge from a club that employs Cristiano Ronaldo, but eventually Sergio Ramos’s temper and Pepe’s recklessness circle back to the coach’s leadership. And Mourinho has shown precious little in the last year. He was sent off in one of Real Madrid’s spring games against Barcelona for sarcastic comments to an official on the sideline; briefly stopped speaking with the news media in a fit of pique; and on Wednesday set a new low when he snuck up behind the Barcelona assistant coach Tito Vilanova during the late-game fracas and reached around to poke him in the eye from behind before backpedaling. “The images speak for themselves,” Barcelona Manager Pep Guardiola said. “If this doesn’t stop, it’s going to end badly.” Corner kick: It almost seems surprising that Spain has ever won anything, let alone last summer’s World Cup, given the way the core of its team acts toward one another when they are wearing their club colors. Goal, The New York Times soccer blog, will report on news and features from the world of soccer and around the Web.  Times editors and reporters will follow international tournaments and provide analysis of games. There will be interviews with players, coaches and notable soccer fans, as well as a weekly blog column by Red Bulls forward Jozy Altidore.  Readers can discuss Major League Soccer, foreign leagues and other issues with fellow soccer fans.
	 
			The Goal blog’s regular features, including live match analysis, player ratings from key matches, reader discussion, news and notes and more, can now be found on the soccer section front.Read more… 
			Crystal Palace won promotion to England’s Premier League on Monday. Now the club must retool under Manager Ian Holloway if it is to avoid relegation next season.Read more… 
			When congress opens, FIFA will be dealing with issues from President Sepp Blatter’s possible run for another term to accusations of vote-rigging among executive committee members.Read more… 
			Sacha Kljestan, who just won his second straight Belgian title with Anderlecht, could have a role to play for the United States in its exhibition against Belgium on Wednesday.Read more… 
			Alonso Hernandez, who plays in Mexico for Monterrey but has never represented the United States at any level, will get a chance to earn a place on the Under-20 World Cup team.Read more… Follow Advertisement