Advertisement By ROBERT MCG. THOMAS JR. FOR a field in which ''greens'' are generally understood to be putting surfaces rather than bands of aggressive environmentalists, it is surprising how sensitive the golf industry is becoming to the threat the game poses to the surrounding world. Consider, for example, that the United States Golf Association recently decided to spend $1 million a year over the next three years on research into how golf affects the environment. The study will cover such matters as pesticides and other chemicals used to maintain fairways and greens. Nothing, perhaps, illustrates the extent of golf's new awareness than an article in the June-July issue of Golf Shop Operations, focusing on one too- easily overlooked golfing threat to the environment: the 1.7 billion tees that the tee industry estimates reckless North American golfers whack, snap or simply leave behind each year. Although at least one tee manufacturer finds that estimate high, the figure, the magazine notes, works out to more than 4 million pounds of wood at two-fifths of an ounce per tee. Advertisement Further calculations, taking into account such factors as the weight of the hardwood used to make tees (about 40 pounds per cubic foot) and the size of the white birch and other such trees used for tees (about 20 feet tall and 8 inches in diamter), add up to about 45,000 trees felled on the continent each year to satisfy the recreational whims of golfers.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. At, say, 300 trees an acre, that, in turn, works out to about 150 acres of ruined forest a year, or enough for a fair-sized country club complete with swimming pool, tennis courts and a parking lot to accommodate the members' gas-guzzling cars. Advertisement There are, to be sure, efforts under way to alleviate the problem. Prompted, admittedly, more by concern for golf course litter (and their own profits) than with saving trees, several manufacturers are experimenting with alternatives to wooden tees. One, for example, favors compacted peat moss. Another, National Pro Industries in suburban Montreal, has a line of plastic tees it claims are both bio- and photodegradable, and is working on one made entirely of starch that would disintegrate in a two-hour rainstorm. As appealing as such esoteric solutions may be, what may be the simplest answer to the wholesale tee- driven destruction of the nation's woodlands is already available, a tee that is both attractive and durable and that none but the most profligate golfers would ever leave behind. It is made of Sterling silver and Tiffany's offers what should be a lifetime supply (one) for $32. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 6, 1990, on Page C00002 of the National edition with the headline: SPORTS WORLD SPECIALS: GOLF;   Environmental Tee Off of Sorts.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »