Advertisement  Tommy Lasorda might end his 43-year association with the Los Angeles Dodgers and become manager of the Giants if they move to St. Petersburg, Fla., a published report says. The Fort Worth Star-Telegram, citing two people close to the situation, reported yesterday that Lasorda could join the Giants before the 1993 season and manage at least one season before becoming general manager. Under the scenario, the former Texas Rangers manager Bobby Valentine, who was fired July 9, would become Lasorda's third-base coach, then take over as manager when Lasorda moves into the front office. Lasorda, 64 years old, has a close relationship with Vincent Piazza, one of the main investors in the group that has reached an agreement in principle to buy the San Francisco Giants from Bob Lurie. Lasorda is the godfather of Piazza's son Mike, a catching prospect in the Dodgers' system. "There's nothing to that," Lasorda said yesterday in Atlanta. "I'm manager of the Dodgers. I have a contract for 1993. I don't want anyone getting in touch with me." Advertisement But The Star-Telegram reported that its sources confirmed that Lasorda has talked of the Giants scenario in the past with with family and close friends. Advertisement Despite a growing rift between Lasorda and members of the front office, the club in March extended his contract through the 1993 season, which would be his 18th as Dodgers manager. White Sox Lose Another Shortstop White Sox shortstop Craig Grebeck returned to Chicago yesterday to have his broken right foot examined. He is expected to miss four to six weeks. The White Sox lost their All-Star shortstop, Ozzie Guillen, for the season on April 21 with torn ligaments in his right knee. Grebeck removed himself from Saturday night's game against the Angels in Anaheim, Calif., after hearing a crack in his right foot as he ran out a grounder in the fifth inning. He had returned to the lineup Friday after missing six games after being hit on the foot by a pitch July 31.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. He is hitting .268 with three homers and 35 runs batted in. Oakland's Walkman A's outfielder Jose Canseco tied a major league record by drawing walks in seven consecutive times at bat, five times on Tuesday and his first two appearances Wednesday night against Texas. He nearly broke the record, going to 3-0 in his third at-bat against Bobby Witt before taking two called strikes, then swinging and missing at a low slider that would have been ball four. In his seven walks, Canseco swung the bat only three times. One-Liners Baltimore's Cal Ripken Jr. played his 41st consecutive game without a home run on Saturday night, the longest drought of his career. . . . Cubs outfielder Andre Dawson is 11 for 72 (.153) since the All-Star Game break. . . . The Braves are 0-6 against division rival Cincinnati at Riverfront Stadium this season but 6-1 against the Reds at home. . . . The Expos' Marquis Grissom (55) and Delino DeShields (40) have more steals than 20 other major league teams. ... Strange but true: The majors' only three knuckleballers -- Charlie Hough, Tom Candiotti and Tim Wakefield -- all wear No. 49. On a Roll White Sox outfielder Lance Johnson went 2 for 5 yesterday and extended his hitting streak to 23 games. It's the longest streak in the majors this season and the fourth-longest in White Sox history, four games short of club leader Luke Appling (1936). . . . Jack Morris (14-4) has won 10 of his last 11 decisions for Toronto, despite a gaudy season earned run average of 4.57. . . . In their last 14 games at home, the Padres have won 12 times. . . . Atlanta's John Smoltz has won 5 straight decisions and 9 of his last 10. He is 25-8 since last season's All-Star break. Chasing History George Brett's double Friday against Oakland was the 625th of his career, moving him past Hank Aaron and into sole possession of eighth place on the career list. Brett has 2,949 hits for 21st place on the list. He needs 51 hits over the final 51 games to reach 3,000. . . . Robin Yount moved within 27 hits of 3,000 with two hits Saturday night against the Twins. . . . Dave Winfield had one hit Saturday, giving him 2,815 for his career. That moves him past George Sisler into 33d place. Those Streaking Tigers Tigers Manager Sparky Anderson, impressed that Milwaukee rookie Cal Eldred shut out Minnesota on Saturday, made a strange promise. "I couldn't imagine shutting out the Twins. Every time we play them, they have guys running all over the place. If we ever did shut out the Twins, I'd take off my clothes and run naked on the field." Although Anderson did keep his clothes on yesterday at Tiger Stadium, a 22-year-old Canadian ran naked through right field during the fifth inning. The man, whose name was not released, was arrested and charged with disorderly conduct. Happy Birthday to You Advertisement That old tomato gardener, and former Orioles manager, Earl Weaver turns 62 on Friday. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 10, 1992, on Page C00008 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL: AROUND THE MAJORS; Could Lasorda Soon Bleed Giant Orange?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »