Advertisement By FRANK LITSKY Two weeks ago, Harry Carson said he had no plans to retire from pro football. Thursday night, on an HBO program titled ''Inside the N.F.L.,'' he said he would retire after this season. Yesterday, Carson explained the contradiction. He said he had decided before the season that this would be his last year in pro football. Carson is earning $550,000 this year as an inside linebacker and the Giants' defensive captain. He will be 35 years old in two weeks. This is his 13th season in the National Football League, and he has played in nine Pro Bowls, tying the record. He is here with the Giants for Sunday's game against the Cardinals in suburban Tempe. He said his statement two weeks ago that he was not about to retire was prompted by insinuations that he was too old to play. Advertisement ''I kept reading these report-card things in the papers,'' he said. ''They got to me. They would say Harry Carson is 35 and has lost a step and all that stuff. Maybe I've lost a step, but it's not because I'm almost 35. It's the wear and tear on artificial turf.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ''A lot of guys have come and gone, first-round draft choices, and I've survived them. I don't think it has a lot to do with age. ''I'm tired of people asking me how long I'm going to play. I think I can play as long as I want to. Everybody has to go through this in professional sports. I would rather go out on my terms than someone else's terms.'' Advertisement Carson said he has no plans for his career after football. ''I'm going to enjoy myself,'' he said. ''Some people have linked me with a television network, but no offers have been made. I'm exploring various avenues, and the way I have managed my career I am in no rush to get into anything. I don't have to do anything for a long time. I'm happy.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 13, 1988, on Page 8008001 of the National edition with the headline: Carson Sets Own Terms.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »