Does it seem as if the Eagles have never stopped distancing themselves from the Giants Â since Matt Dodge punted the ball at DeSean Jackson instead of out of bounds? Steve Smith, a Giant stalwart and an Eli Manning security blanket,  is the latest talented free agent to join the Eagles after he rejected a lesser offer from the Giants. Smith, who is still recovering from knee surgery and may miss most of the first half of the season, Â said on his Facebook page:  I will always cherish my time in NY and the super bowl victory.. This was obviously not an easy decision for me or something i ever expected but unfortunately the business aspect proved that the eagles wanted me to be part of their organization MUCH more than the Giants did.. A special thanks to my WR buddies, coach Gilbride, all of u amazing fans on here, and the entire giants organization for drafting me.. Time for a new beginning… It may be a case of dueling doctors. Clark Judge of CBSSports.com: What seems apparent here is that the Eagles’ physicians must think that Smith is farther along in his recovery than the Giants’ physicians. Extra point:  Smith, a second-round pick in 2007, has been a great value for the Giants. He helped them win a Super Bowl. For Giants fans, this is turning into something of a traumatic month. How could General Manager Jerry Reese let Smith go to a division rival that seems loaded with promise? Set aside talent for a moment. Is it a concern that the Giants are losing such well-respected guys — Shaun O’Hara, Rich Seubert, Kevin Boss, Smith — in the locker room? The New York Times will report on the Giants and Jets throughout the season. You can also find links to coverage from around the league, tips for your fantasy football team and discussion with other football fans. 
			The content on the Fifth Down blog is moving to the pro football page on nytimes.com.Read more… 
			The Jets receiver became a critic of the game and its role in American society. But the decision to walk away was also personal.Read more… 
			John Idzik, the general manager of the Jets, will not retain Scott Cohen, the assistant general manager. Ari Nissim, another high-ranking executive, also will depart.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, answers questions from readers.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, will answer questions from readers.Read more… Follow Advertisement