Advertisement By MICHAEL JANOFSKY and  Just two days ago, Tatyana Gutsu had no reason to expect that she would do anything more tonight than sit beside the competition floor, watching her three Unified Team mates prance through their routines in the all-around competition of the Barcelona Olympics. But when their third qualifier, Roza Galyeva, developed a sore knee in practice, team officials decided to replace her with Gutsu, who had finished fourth. It is a common practice in gymnastics, as the rules allow, even if the injury is not always so severe as officials would have you believe with a wink. So did they know what they were doing, or what? Any doubts evaporated in a flash tonight when Gutsu finished her night's work with a near-perfect vault that took her past Shannon Miller of the United States, straight to the victory podium for the gold medal. Gutsu received 39.737 points to Miller's 39.725, plus a bouquet of flowers and a treat she had not expected, the playing of the Ukraine anthem and the raising of the blue-and-yellow Ukraine flag. And if it was the perfect ending for Gutsu, a 15-year-old daughter of a railroad repairman and a baby-food factory worker, it wasn't bad for Miller, either. Advertisement Her medal was the first for an American woman in the all-around in a non-boycotted Olympics since the Soviet Union joined the Olympic party in 1952. The asterisked exception was Mary Lou Retton's gold at the Los Angeles Games in 1984, which the Soviet team and other Eastern bloc nations skipped for political reasons. Advertisement Lavinia Milosovici won the bronze for Romania, the only Eastern European country to compete in 1984. It was the fifth consecutive Olympics in which the country had won a medal in the all-around. In nearly all respects, the closing moments of the competition unfolded as many gymnastics purists had envisioned: a remaining star of the vaunted Soviet system locked against a young American. The only difference was the contestants turned out not to be Svetlana Boginskaya of Belarus, the 1989 world champion, and Kim Zmeskal, the three-time United States champion from Houston, who succeeded her in 1991. Boginskaya flirted with the lead early, then began a steady fade to finish fifth, behind the medalists and Cristina Bontas, another Romanian. Zmeskal stepped out of bounds on the last tumbling maneuver of her floor exercise, her first event, and received a one-tenth point automatic deduction that took her out of contention. 3 Americans in Top 12 It was a tribute to her tenacity that she climbed back to 10th. That gave the United States two in the top 10, a commendable achievement. Betty Okino, the third American, was 12th. Four years ago in Seoul, South Korea, Brandy Johnson was the highest American finisher, at 10th. For its storybook finish, the night was Gutsu's, and there was no hiding her satisfaction. "Of course, I'm thrilled. I'm delighted," she said through a translator. "Roza should have been here. But her knee was painful. So the coaches agreed, we would replace her. That's why I'm sitting here."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. She was probably playing it a little coy, but that's all right. That's the way it works at this level. A few words from the team coach, Aleksandr Aleksandrov, left all the hints you needed to know that Gutsu was always going to be the third Unified athlete who would perform tonight. Never mind that Galyeva had finished ahead of her in the team competition on Wednesday night by just 27-thousandths of a point. "She has very difficult programs," he said of Gutsu, who fell off the balance beam in the optionals. "When difficult programs are set in motion, you are incurring major risks. Sometimes you don't make them, but you try not to discard the difficulty. Even if we think there can be no improvement, we do not change them. So we continued on and on with these programs, and we were right. Obviously, the judges were pleased, as well." Miller had slightly different reasons to rejoice. A 15-year-old from Edmond, Okla., who heard nothing but comparisons to Zmeskal for the last two years, Miller continued her journey past her teammate. Miller had better finishes at the Olympic trials and in the individual rankings of the team competition here, in which she was first and Zmeskal 12th. Advertisement A gymnast of few words, Miller said she was thinking only of her own performance, not of Zmeskal or anyone else, although she did admit to being slightly nervous on that final apparatus. At the time, Milosovici and Gutsu were tied in the lead with 29.787 points, and Boginskaya was third, followed by Miller. Boginskaya, on the balance beam, scored 9.964, but Miller blasted to the top with a vault of 9.975. Her second vault was no improvement, so she had put Gutsu in the position of needing 9.939 points for the victory. That's a lot. Gutsu's first vault nearly got it, 9.925. But then, as if everything else in the Palau Sant Jordi was blurred for the sake of her concentration, Gutsu tore down the runway and executed the vault she needed, 9.950. Still Worth a Hug It was such a brilliant and timely performance by Gutsu that Miller's coach, Steve Nunno, still smothered his gymnast in the kind of bear hug Bela Karolyi delivers to Zmeskal on a good night. Not a bad way to get the silver, Nunno's gesture said, and put a little perspective on the comparisons that got them here. "This is the most attention Shannon has gotten since our buddy Mary Lou won," Nunno said. "I don't know if Shannon Miller really wants the attention. But if she gets it, she deserves it." Zmeskal took it well. "I did not have the night of my life," she said. "You have one night to hit. If you're on, you're on. But even when I did hit, my scores were not very high. I was lucky to get as much as I did." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 31, 1992, on Page B00007 of the National edition with the headline: BARCELONA: GYMNASTICS; Gutsu Beats Miller and Stashes Gold in the Vault.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »