Advertisement By JOSEPH SIANO and  Most people would love to be a race driver for no other reason than never having to worry about speed limits. But during the Indianapolis 500 on Sunday, even the racers at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway will have to worry about speeding tickets, of a sort. Under rules adopted for this year's Indy 500, each time the yellow caution light comes on, the pits will be closed until all the cars have bunched up behind the pace car. When that happens, the pits will reopen, but drivers can go no faster than 100 miles per hour on pit lane. The speed limit doesn't apply on stops made under the green light. Any driver breaking the rules will be brought back into the pits to come to a complete stop before going back onto the track. The United States Auto Club, which officiates the Indy 500, said the rules were established to protect the rescue crews that dash onto the track each time an accident happens or debris must be cleared. Drivers were trying to make up time too quickly under yellow lights, USAC said, and were going past the rescue crews too fast. By closing the pits until the field bunches up, USAC reasons, it decreases the incentive to speed back to the pits. Advertisement The speed limit was added because many drivers expressed concern that with the entire field diving into the pits at the same time under the yellow light, the risks to pit-crew members would be greatly increased as cars sped in and out. Whooosh! End of Feud Advertisement Feuds between drivers seem to pass almost as quickly as the cars do. In a race last Oct. 6 in Nazareth, Pa., A. J. Foyt's car was knocked out in a collision with Jeff Andretti, Mario Andretti's younger son. Afterward, Foyt had some choice descriptions of the 28-year-old Andretti's driving abilities. So who did Foyt hire to drive his backup car here when his original choice backed out? Jeff Andretti. "He's really a nice guy," said John Andretti, Jeff's cousin, when asked how A. J. was treating him. "I think he's really helped Jeff." "A. J. has given him some confidence," John Andretti said. "Family, they're going to tell you what you want to hear. Here's a guy who told him to settle down." Foyt will be able to keep an eye on his protege Sunday. Jeff Andretti, in the 20th starting spot, is directly in front of Foyt's car in the starting grid. Guys and Gears  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The big mystery here is what words will replace the traditional command of "Gentlemen, start your engines" on Sunday. The change was made necessary when Lyn St. James became only the second woman ever to qualify for the race. When Janet Guthrie ran in the race from 1977 to 1979, various substitutes, including "Lady and Gentlemen, start your engines," were used. Mari Hulman George, chairman of the board of the Indianapolis Motor Speedway Corporation, said on Wednesday that she wasn't really sure what her mother, Mary Fendrich Hulman, chairman of the board emeritus, would say on Sunday. Advertisement St. James, for her part, said she wasn't lobbying to get the command changed, but if she had her choice, it would be: "Drivers, start your engines." Off the Tobacco Roadway Amid all the cars here on Sunday that will carry the names of tobacco products and beers, one will be running against that traffic. Dominic Dobson will be driving the No. 68 Tobacco-Free America Lola-Chevy. The primary sponsor is the Head and Neck Cancer Rehabilitation Institute of Indianapolis, but money is also coming from Doctors Ought to Care, a Houston organization of physicians founded to counteract the promotion of tobacco and alcohol. The sponsorship effort is aimed at the younger generation, and 175,000 posters of the car are being distributed to public school students in Indianapolis. The group's education efforts might be better served if it started a little closer to home. Friday morning, a crew member on the car was sorting out tires, a lit cigarette dangling from his mouth. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 23, 1992, on Page 1001034 of the National edition with the headline: AUTO RACING: NOTEBOOK; And Try Not to Get Caught for Speeding.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »