Advertisement By CLAIRE SMITH NO matter who one thinks is the good guy or the bad guy, the odds-on winner or the sure-to-be loser in the great baseball battle of 1992, one thing is certain. What is at once the mythological and real position of commissioner of major league baseball is bound to be exposed, exploded or empowered by the time the final shots have been fired. There will be no escaping the inevitable change if a number of major league owners and Fay Vincent, the commissioner they are now bound and determined to relieve of duties, remain on their present collision course. This drama of major proportions could play out all the way to the highest court in the land -- Vincent's words. If so, then perhaps a very important dress rehearsal is being played out in the Federal courts in Illinois. It is there that the Chicago Cubs are suing to halt Vincent's ordered realignment of the National League, an edict the club charges illegally treads on its right to veto the move, according to the league's constitution. The Cubs have already won a temporary injunction. Round 2 is set for the end of September. Advertisement Undoubtedly when that case, or any others spawned in the troubled waters of baseball, start up, more than just the opinions of the plaintiffs and the defendant will be heard. And already, curious observers have started wading in. Take the two surviving former commissioners, Bowie Kuhn and Peter Ueberroth, for instance. Advertisement Both recently filed affidavits in United States District Court in Chicago in connection with the Cubs case. Kuhn, commissioner from 1969 to 1984, notes in his statement that the Cubs contend that a commissioner's "best interests of baseball" powers cannot be used to affect what the Cubs describe as "intimate business decisions" of the clubs or leagues. But, says Kuhn, "as commissioner, I made a number of decisions that involved the clubs' business decisions and practices." And he cites his order that clubs not use advertising from legalized gambling entities and that owners open spring training camps in 1976 despite the absence of a collecting bargaining agreement. "Many clubs disagreed," Kuhn said of the latter decision. His edict, he added, "clearly involved one of the most significant business decisions a club can make. . . . But no club challenged my authority under Article I to take this action."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Ueberroth, Kuhn's successor who served until 1989, states that before he took office he asked for and was given even broader powers, having the position redefined as that of a chief operating officer for all of baseball. The clarification, he said, "would eliminate any questions about the scope of the office's powers." "I am informed that the Cubs contend that the commissioner's powers under Article I of the M.L.A. are not triggered unless there is an 'act, transaction or practice' that produces some change in the status quo, and that Article I does not apply to what they call 'intimate business decisions' of the clubs and leagues," Ueberroth said, referring to the Major League Agreement. "Those limitations are not consistent with the way I understood and exercised my 'best interests' authority, and I do not believe they are consistent with what the major league clubs understood to be the scope of that authority," Ueberroth said. C.E.O.'s, he said, "are not expected to simply react to changes in the status quo but rather to determine when the settled, established way of doing things is no longer good enough and when change is necessary. The owners, all of whom are sophisticated business executives, obviously understood this when they amended the M.L.A. in 1984." Advertisement Because of that perceived interpretation, Ueberroth felt empowered to do such things as inform the Cubs that they probably would not be allowed to play post-season games in their home park of Wrigley Field unless lights were installed. He ordered owners to open their books to the union for the first time ever as a precursor to labor negotiations in 1985. And Ueberroth once overrode an American League constitutional requirement on ownership transfers by personally allowing a television firm to purchase minority holdings in the Texas Rangers even though that firm was one vote shy of receiving the league's approval. No American League club sued then to challenge Ueberroth or shield the constitution. The Cubs obviously feel differently, choosing to make their stand. Their action might just be a precursor to a larger legal battle if more than one club decides it's time to roll back some of the powers of the commissioner that were expanded less than 10 years ago. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 27, 1992, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; A Courtroom Dress Rehearsal.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »