Advertisement By KEN BELSONAPRIL 10, 2014
 Giants quarterback Eli Manning had arthroscopic surgery on his left ankle Thursday to relieve pain associated with a sprain he sustained in the last game of the season. The procedure to clean out his ankle was performed by Dr. Robert Anderson in Charlotte, N.C. Manning said that he expected to take part in the team’s off-season program April 21 but that he would not start running until late May. “I will be in the weight room and in the meeting rooms so we can all learn the new offense,” Manning said in a statement, alluding to some changes made in the off-season after the Giants’ disappointing 7-9 finish. “I got some good work in this week at Duke, and I think it’s smart to get this procedure done now so the ankle isn’t an ongoing issue.” Manning, who has started 151 consecutive N.F.L. games, left the season finale against the Washington Redskins after he sustained a high ankle sprain on a play when he was nearly sacked by Chris Baker. Manning got up after the play but was unsteady on his feet. He returned to the line of scrimmage on the next play, but he hardly dropped back in throwing a pass which was intercepted. Advertisement He then limped off the field. “I was still experiencing some discomfort as I began my normal off-season preparation, and after consultation, we felt the right thing was to have Dr. Anderson clean out the ankle,” Manning, 33, said. Advertisement Removing calcium deposits, scar tissue and bone chips from the high ankle area is uncommon, according to Dr. Steven Weinfeld, an orthopedic surgeon and the chief of the foot and ankle service at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai in New York. However, the surgery suggests that Manning has had issues with pain rather than with instability. Surgically stabilizing the ankle is a more complicated procedure with a longer rehabilitation period. Pat Hanlon, a team spokesman, said Manning’s surgery was “successfully completed.” But Weinfeld said it would take months to determine whether the injury had completely healed. Manning will most likely wear a protective boot for weeks and only begin running after about six weeks. Several more weeks of activity will be needed to find out if Manning can move without pain.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “Once you start running, you won’t know right away,” he said. “Getting hit by a 300-pound lineman is certainly different than someone twisting their ankle.” Manning has been remarkably healthy during his 10-year N.F.L. career. He appeared in nine games as a rookie in 2004 and has started every game since then. Last season, though, was one of his worst. He threw for only 18 touchdowns, his fewest since he became a starter, and was intercepted a franchise-record 27 times. The Giants had their first losing season since 2004 and failed to make the playoffs. The team’s poor performance led to a series of changes in the off-season. Ben McAdoo became the new offensive coordinator, and Danny Langsdorf was hired to coach the quarterbacks. “I’m eager to get to work with our new offensive coaches and system,” Manning said. A version of this article appears in print on April 11, 2014, on Page B14 of the New York edition with the headline: Manning Undergoes Surgery on Ankle.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »