Though rain may keep favorites and Cinderellas alike from dancing Tuesday, a look at who should make it into the final four on the women’s side of the 2011 U.S. Open. Caroline Wozniacki (Denmark) [1] vs. Andrea Petkovic (Germany) [10] For all the questions surrounding her game, W.T.A. No. 1 Caroline Wozniacki is a known quantity at this point. She won’t beat herself, and she can be beaten by a good player who plays consistently well throughout a match. Andrea Petkovic, who beat Wozniacki in Miami this spring on her way into the top 20, is one of those players.  Petkovic explained her winning tactics after the match. “Most of the players think they can overpower Caroline,” Petkovic said.  “I think that’s the wrong approach, because that’s where she’s most comfortable, when she can run and bring the most balls back.” “What I try to do is mix it up and to make her play, and then when I had the short ball to go for it. Because if you try to hit every single shot with full power, she just gets more comfortable,and eventually you’re gonna miss.” But as self-assured and savvy as Petkovic may be, there have to be concerns regarding her mental readiness to pull off a win this big over the top seed at a Grand Slam. On winning a Grand Slam, Petkovic herself expressed doubts earlier this week.  “I think that’s still far away.” Petkovic said. “I reached two quarters, I reached fourth round, and I think that’s been pretty good.  But I think to win a Grand Slam is a different story.” Still, her game is not prone to breakdown the way Svetlana Kuznetsova’s did in the fourth round against Wozniacki, and with her weapons and smarts, she should be able to break down Wozniacki’s game. Predicted semifinalist: Andrea Petkovic 
Serena Williams (United States) [28] vs. Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova (Russia) [17] After dropping a total of three games in her first five sets at the U.S. Open, Serena Williams seemed to downshift her gears, playing more adequately than dominantly in the second set against Victoria Azarenka and her fourth round match against Ana Ivanovic. If her current 16-match win streak has lulled her into any sense of complacency or fait accompli, Williams could be in for a rude awakening against Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova, the youngest player in the top 50. Pavlyuchenkova ends points quickly, and won’t give Williams much room to play her way into the match.  Without any sort of history against her, it’s possible seeing Williams (who has been all but coronated by experts) underestimating the Russian drastically. But if Williams gets off to as quick a start as she has in her four previous matches, she should be safe. Predicted semifinalist: Serena Williams. Angelique Kerber (Germany) vs. Flavia Pennetta (Italy) [26]

Considering she had never done it before in her long career, Flavia Pennetta couldn’t have possibly imagined herself as the heavy favorite to make it to the semifinal of a Grand Slam. But here she is, preparing to stare across the net at 92nd-ranked Angelique Kerber in the biggest match of her career. Exhaustion has to be an issue for Pennetta at this point in the tournament, having played four singles matches and three more in doubles. As she fought to close out her fourth round singles match against Peng Shuai, Pennetta bent over with exhaustion and nausea, overwhelmed by the heat and looking too feeble to continue. But all the same, her experience and talent dwarf Kerber’s, and a loss for her at this stage is difficult to fathom. Predicted semifinalist: Flavia Pennetta. Samantha Stosur (Australia) [9] vs. Vera Zvonareva (Russia) [2] More than any other elite player, Samantha Stosur has certain players she can and can’t beat. Because she struggles against hard, flat hitters, she’s never beaten either Maria Sharapova or Victoria Azarenka in a combined thirteen matches against the two. But she is 5-0 in her career against Li Na, and, more relevantly for this tournament, a dominant 7-2 against Vera Zvonareva.  Stosur has played draining tennis in this tournament, squandering sets in which she had match points in both her third and fourth round matches. Zvonareva had a difficult first week, but rounded into form in her third round win with a convincing victory over Sabine Lisicki. As good as Zvonareva, the 2010 U.S. Open runner-up, looked in that match, it’s tough to see her beating a player she’s lost to seven straight times. Predicted semifinalist: Samantha Stosur. Journalists from The New York Times and The International Herald Tribune (along with a few dedicated fans) are following the Grand Slam tournaments, on and off the court. They will provide updates, insights, links and analysis while setting the scene from the stands as well as the press room. 
			This blog’s regular features, including live tournament analysis, news and notes from Christopher Clarey, Ben Rothenberg and others, and other coverage, can now be found on the tennis section front.Read more… 
			Venus Williams, ranked No. 63, beat No. 2 Victoria Azarenka in Tokyo on Tuesday, her first win over a player in the top two since 2009.Read more… 
			The United States learned on Wednesday that it would host a first-round tie with Britain for the 2014 Davis Cup.Read more… 
			According to one celebrity marketing index, Andy Murray is the most appealing of the so-called Big Four in men’s tennis. Read more… 
			Sloane Stephens walked the runway Thursday night in the Just Dance With Boy Meets Girl fashion show, modeling the designs of Stacy Igel.Read more… Advertisement