I write just hours after leaving Arthur Ashe, where Novak Djokovic and Rafael Nadal had four or five rallies that I will be replaying in my mind as I fall asleep tonight.  But to me the most memorable moment — or minutes — of this year’s Open unfolded on Labor Day afternoon on Armstrong, as Djokovic and and Alexandr Dolgopolov —  the young Ukranian with the jack-in-a-box serve and ants in his pants — played a 30-point tiebreak as the wind swirled and the crowd oohed and belly-laughed as if someone had driven a clown-car onto the court.  It was the longest tiebreak of Djokovic’s career: He needed six set points to finally take it, and saved four along the way. One shot in particular stands out:  A slice volley from Dolgopolov that traveled perhaps three times as far sideways as it did toward his opponent across the net. Was it going to hit the net pole? The base of the umpire’s chair?  Those in the stands grew strangely silent — until Djokovic tap-tapped his racquet in applause.  A roar! A winner!   Journalists from The New York Times and The International Herald Tribune (along with a few dedicated fans) are following the Grand Slam tournaments, on and off the court. They will provide updates, insights, links and analysis while setting the scene from the stands as well as the press room. 
			This blog’s regular features, including live tournament analysis, news and notes from Christopher Clarey, Ben Rothenberg and others, and other coverage, can now be found on the tennis section front.Read more… 
			Venus Williams, ranked No. 63, beat No. 2 Victoria Azarenka in Tokyo on Tuesday, her first win over a player in the top two since 2009.Read more… 
			The United States learned on Wednesday that it would host a first-round tie with Britain for the 2014 Davis Cup.Read more… 
			According to one celebrity marketing index, Andy Murray is the most appealing of the so-called Big Four in men’s tennis. Read more… 
			Sloane Stephens walked the runway Thursday night in the Just Dance With Boy Meets Girl fashion show, modeling the designs of Stacy Igel.Read more… Advertisement