Despite the well-publicized trend of top A.T.P. players such as Novak Djokovic and Andy Murray turning to gluten-free diets, male players at the 2011 U.S. Open have shown a voracious appetite for bagels. With 19 matches still remaining, there have been 20 bagel (6-0) sets won in the men’s singles tournament, more than twice the eight that occurred in the entire 2010 event. The 20 bagels is also more than the combined total won at this year’s French Open (11) and Wimbledon (8). The explosion of lopsidedness hasn’t extended into women’s matches at the U.S. Open, as the women have served a fewer than average 15 bagels through the first four rounds. Despite playing fewer sets, women’s matches have historically included more bagels than men’s, a trend that held true at each of the three previous Grand Slam events in 2011 (by a margin of at least five) as well as all U.S. Opens in the last 10 years. The slower courts at this year’s event seem the most likely reason for the change. With the ball not traveling as quickly, men who can normally rely on their serve to win them a few easy games per set would have a tougher time holding. Because it is not as dominated by the serve, the women’s game would be less affected by this change. Journalists from The New York Times and The International Herald Tribune (along with a few dedicated fans) are following the Grand Slam tournaments, on and off the court. They will provide updates, insights, links and analysis while setting the scene from the stands as well as the press room. 
			This blog’s regular features, including live tournament analysis, news and notes from Christopher Clarey, Ben Rothenberg and others, and other coverage, can now be found on the tennis section front.Read more… 
			Venus Williams, ranked No. 63, beat No. 2 Victoria Azarenka in Tokyo on Tuesday, her first win over a player in the top two since 2009.Read more… 
			The United States learned on Wednesday that it would host a first-round tie with Britain for the 2014 Davis Cup.Read more… 
			According to one celebrity marketing index, Andy Murray is the most appealing of the so-called Big Four in men’s tennis. Read more… 
			Sloane Stephens walked the runway Thursday night in the Just Dance With Boy Meets Girl fashion show, modeling the designs of Stacy Igel.Read more… Advertisement