Advertisement By MURRAY CHASS By trying to call Peter Ueberroth and Fay Vincent to testify at a reopened hearing, George Steinbrenner's attorneys were hoping to minimize any potential penalty by establishing that baseball had known about his relationship with Howard Spira and tacitly condoned it. Vincent, who expects to have a decision in the Steinbrenner case next week, has rejected the efforts by the owner's attorneys to call a series of witnesses, including Ueberroth, the former commissioner, and himself. But associates of Steinbrenner say their testimony is critical to their efforts to persuade Vincent to focus strictly on Steinbrenner's $40,000 payment to Howard Spira last January. The associates believe Vincent is deliberating Steinbrenner's baseball future based on his three-year association with Spira, not just the payment. ''If I'm George,'' one of the owner's associates said yesterday, ''and I'm going to be penalized because I gave Spira money, I don't think that could carry with it any large penalty, maybe a hand-slapper at best. But if I'm going to be punished for associating with a known gambler, beyond paying him for information, I said, 'Wait a minute. This is a guy who was known to baseball and its investigators for a long time. I was never warned to stay away from him; why are you penalizing me for it now?' '' The latter scenario, said the associate, who wanted to remain anonymous, elevates the matter to another category and ''that's what George and the lawyers are trying to avoid.'' Was Giamatti Briefed? Steinbrenner's attorneys continue to consider the possibility of challenging Vincent in court, and could use his refusal to hear these witnesses as the basis for a lawsuit charging that the commissioner denied him his full rights. Advertisement Vincent declined to say what the focus of his deliberations has been. ''I don't want to talk about that,'' he said. Advertisement Whatever his focus, Steinbrenner's associates said, Vincent especially could not penalize the Yankee owner for the entire relationship if Vincent had been briefed on the Spira-Steinbrenner matter when he became deputy commissioner on April 1, 1989. But Vincent said, ''I never heard of Spira until this thing blew up this year.'' Asked if A. Bartlett Giamatti, who succeeded Ueberroth on April 1, but died five months later, might have been briefed, Vincent said, ''I don't think Bart knew about it because I think I would have known.'' No More Witnesses Steinbrenner's attorneys have wanted to call Vincent as a witness to ask what knowledge he might have had about the case. They then went one step further, saying if Vincent were going to be a witness, he could not sit in judgment of the Yankees' principal owner. The lawyers want to call Ueberroth to determine what he knew about Spira and whether or not he did anything and why. Vincent, however, has refused their request, saying they could submit anything they wanted in writing by the close of business yesterday but he would not hear any more witnesses. ''John Dowd has interviewed Ueberroth,'' the commissioner said. Telephone efforts to reach Ueberroth have been unsuccessful. Harold Tyler Jr., a lawyer serving as a consultant to Vincent, said that when Ueberroth spoke with Dowd, ''he told him what he remembered, which wasn't much.'' ''His statement was kind of vague,'' Tyler said. ''He didn't remember vividly all the details. I don't think cross-examining Ueberroth would mean much. I guess their point is he should have called Mr. Steinbrenner and said, 'You have to stop all this.' ''  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Meeting With Security Director Steinbrenner's attorneys have established that Philip McNiff, a Steinbrenner aide in Tampa, Fla., met with Kevin Hallinan, baseball's director of security, on Sept. 3, 1987, and informed him of the contacts with Spira. That meeting occurred eight months and many telephone calls after Spira first met with Steinbrenner and McNiff. Spira, who has acknowledged having been a heavy sports bettor for a period that ended Jan. 4, 1985, met with Hallinan on Feb. 15, 1989. One of Steinbrenner's associates said that either Hallinan or Ed Durso, former executive vice president in the commissioner's office, briefed Ueberroth on the Spira meeting. Advertisement A former aide of Ueberroth said the former commissioner most likely would not have dwelled on the matter for long. ''His interest in something like this,'' the aide said, ''would have been a five-minute briefing.'' Steinbrenner's attorneys wanted to have Hallinan and Durso testify at a reopened hearing, along with Ueberroth and Dave Winfield. Denied in their effort, they took Hallinan's deposition last Wednesday. Hallinan declined to discuss what he said in the deposition, but a Steinbrenner associate who said he was familiar with the testimony said that when Hallinan was asked if he had told Vincent what Spira had told him, he said he had not because he didn't believe him. Durso did not return a telephone call seeking comment on what he knew about the matter. Steinbrenner's attorneys want Vincent to call Ueberroth to testify because he won't otherwise appear before them. Legal Challenge Considered When Steinbrenner appeared at the hearing before Vincent, he responded to a series of questions from his attorney Stephen Kaufman by saying that no one from the commissioner's office had told him to stop dealing with Spira and that no one had told him that what he was doing was not in the best interests of baseball. Vincent, on the other hand, pointed out to the owner that he did not go to Vincent before paying Spira the $40,000. As far as a legal challenge, Steinbrenner's attorneys could wait and file a lawsuit over the commissioner's decision, or they could act sooner, disputing Vincent's refusal to call Ueberroth and the others as witnesses. ''The necessary work is going forward in case it becomes necessary to go to court,'' one lawyer said. ''We're putting together the materials.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this an analysis; news analysis appears in print on July 24, 1990, on Page B00010 of the National edition with the headline: Narrow Focus Might Help Steinbrenner.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »