Advertisement By JOE SEXTON and  A forfeit tonight might have ended it more efficiently for the Mets. It's unlikely it would have ended it any less eventfully. Consider the ingredients for the Mets against the Chicago Cubs: Wrigley Field; a lineup without Howard Johnson and Bobby Bonilla; a starter, Wally Whitehurst, with a 1-6 record; Greg Maddux, with 13 triumphs. Did a Mets victory seem unlikely? Certainly. Did a close contest appear improbable? Absolutely. Did any surprises occur? No. The final score: Cubs 5, Mets 2. Maddux, who had lost to the Mets last weekend, steamrolled them to gain his sixth complete game. He allowed a run in the fifth and an Eddie Murray home run in the ninth to raise his record to 14-9 and to 3-1 versus the Mets in 1992. Advertisement "I don't think we felt overmatched," said Daryl Boston, who had a hit against Maddux in the first and then at-bat after at-bat of humiliation. "And we feel like the losing is going to end. It just doesn't." Advertisement The Cubs got to Whitehurst early, then got to him in the clutch in the fifth and tacked on single runs off successive relievers Tom Filer and Lee Guetterman in the sixth and seventh to cement the third loss in four games for the Mets and eighth in their last 11. Exhausted of another recap concerning by how much the Mets trail the Pirates? Try this: The Mets trail the second-place Expos by six games in the National League East. Asked if it might not be best for the Mets to forget their nightly position in the National League, Dave Magadan smiled sadly. "We're creating that situation anyway," he said. Oh, yes. In case you've forgotten the Mets trail the Pirates by eight and one-half games. The situation for the Mets is bleak from the moment the lineup cards are handed to the umpires at the plate. The names don't inspire fear, and so the inclination has been for opponents to leap on the Mets early. One night after the Pirates scored three times in the first, the Cubs scored a pair of runs in the opening inning.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Whitehurst, who had been blitzed by the Cubs last weekend at Shea, walked Sammy Sosa to start the game, and then was scorched for a hard single by Ryne Sandberg. One hard out later, Kal Daniels beat out an infield single to load the bases, and Derrick May promptly began the unloading of them with a single to right for a 1-0 lead. Steve Buechele's groundout to short doubled the deficit for Whitehurst. "We're not a club than can come back easily," said Manager Jeff Torborg. "A 2-0 score in the first knocks the heck out of you." Mets Stir, Briefly The forecast for the next eight innings was downgraded to extremely unencouraging. Maddux, the right-hander with the third-best earned run average in the National League, appeared sharp, leisurely amassing four strikeouts through two innings. Advertisement But the Mets, operating with a bit of grit, if not much in the way of grace in their desperate struggle not to tumble into complete irrelevance, pieced together a run in the fifth to get within 2-1. Chico Walker raced his way to an infield hit against Maddux and stole second. Dick Schofield then outwaited Maddux to work out a two-out walk, and Whitehurst, bound for defeat but destined for one moment of glory, reached out to rope a single to left for an r.b.i. Maddux, for a second, was vulnerable, and a walk to Chris Donnels loaded the bases. The Mets, with Magadan at bat, had the chance to do real damage. But Maddux retired Magadan on one pitch, the third baseman for the Mets looping a soft liner to short. "He threw me a pitch -- a cut fastball -- that he hadn't thrown me in two years," said Magadan. "I suppose that's why he is 14-9. A hit there and it's a different game. It's why we lost." Not entirely, of course, although Magadan's willingness to absorb blame was admirable. INSIDE PITCH Cubs outfielder SAMMY SOSA suffered a broken left ankle in the first inning when he fouled a pitch off his leg. It was the second bad blow for Sosa this season. He missed over a month of action with a broken hand before recently returning from the disabled list. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 7, 1992, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; For Mets, Hardly a Fearsome Showing.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »