Because its equitable playing surface and place in the calendar present most top players with ample opportunity to succeed, the U.S. Open historically has had fewer unknowns scuttling through the draw than the other three Grand Slams.  While the top four seeds predictably filled the four semifinal slots in the men’s singles draw, the 2011 U.S. Open has had more than its share of surprise runs on the women’s side. No player’s success has been nearly as unexpected as that of unseeded Angelique Kerber, a 23-year-old German who entered the tournament ranked No. 92, making her one of the most surprising semifinalists in the tournament’s history. To put Kerber’s run in perspective, here is a look at the 10 unseeded players who made the semifinals of the U.S. Open in the Open Era without previously having reached the quarterfinals or better of any other Grand Slam tournament. This list does not include the runs of previously established players (e.g. Jimmy Connors, Andre Agassi, Kim Clijsters), but rather focuses on players who were relatively or completely unknown before they found themselves in the final four of the United States’s Grand Slam. Angelique Kerber (2011) — Though most Cinderellas dance on the grandest stages of their breakout tournament, 92nd-ranked German Angelique Kerber has been something of a wallflower at the 2011 U.S. Open. Playing her third round, fourth round, and quarterfinal matches on isolated Court 17 due to the rain-addled schedule, Kerber’s run to the final four has been as stealthy as any in history. The 23-year-old did collect one high-profile victory with a second-round win over No. 12 seed and recent San Diego champion Agnieszka Radwanska, but did not run into another player inside the top 25 until her semifinal match against No. 9 Samantha Stosur. But with that match scheduled for Grandstand and not scheduled to be televised live in the United States, this Cinderella can’t count on anyone seeing her glass slipper come off. But for a player who arrived at Flushing Meadows two weeks ago with one career U.S. Open victory to her name, it’s tough to imagine Kerber being disappointed with her clock striking midnight in the semifinals. Yanina Wickmayer (2009) — Wickmayer came into the 2009 U.S. Open with a 1-6 record at slams, barely clinging to a spot in the top 50. But after a first-round upset of No. 16 Virginie Razzano, the 19-year-old Belgian’s draw opened up nicely. In a decimated top quarter of the draw, Wickmayer reeled off four straight victories over players outside the top 40 to make an improbable semifinal. Due to rain delays, her semifinal loss to Caroline Wozniacki was played on Louis Armstrong Stadium in front of a small crowd of people, played concurrently with the blockbuster between Kim Clijsters and Serena Williams. Though the run may have been fluky, it dramatically improved the trajectory of Wickmayer’s career. Wickmayer won a tournament in Linz that October, and finished 2009 at No. 16. Wickmayer has made it into the second week of a Grand Slam three times since her 2009 breakout, but has yet to reach another quarterfinal.  Mikhail Youzhny (2006) — Celebrating each win with a salute to the crowd, 54th-ranked Youzhny tore through the draw with militaristic efficiency and force. After upsetting No. 18 Dominik Hrbaty in the first round, Youzhny came back to win from two sets down against 2004 Olympic gold medalist Nicolas Massu in the second. The Russian then improbably dominated three consecutive Spanish opponents, knocking off No. 11 David Ferrer in the third round, No. 6 Tommy Robredo in the fourth, and, most impressively, No. 2 Rafael Nadal in the quarterfinals. Youzhny’s run ended at the hands of crowd favorite Andy Roddick in the semifinals, a streaky four-set match that included two tiebreaks and a bagel. Youzhny would repeat his semifinal run at the 2010 U.S. Open, this time as the No. 12 seed. Robby Ginepri (2005) — Even moreso than this year’s tournament, the 2005 U.S. Open looked like a rebirth of American men’s tennis. Roddick had crashed out in the first round to unknown Luxembourger Gilles Muller (an exit that unfortunately coincided with an American Express ad campaign called “Have you seen Andy’s Mojo?”), but a motley crew of young and old players carried the flag admirably in his absence. Twenty-three-year-old Georgia native Ginepri avenged Roddick’s loss in the second round with a thrashing of Muller, losing only six games. Ginepri followed up the rout by gutting out three consecutive five-set wins over seeded players, taking out No. 29 Tommy Haas, No. 13 Richard Gasquet and No. 8 Guillermo Coria to reach the semifinals. As impressive as Ginepri’s run was, it was overshadowed by the rejuvenated play of Ginepri’s semifinal opponent, Andre Agassi, who himself had won an electric five-setter over James Blake in the quarterfinals. In what would be his penultimate Open, Agassi was able to grind through Ginepri’s defenses in five sets. Ginepri, Agassi, and Blake would never best their 2005 U.S. Open runs at any later Grand Slam event.  Elena Dementieva (2000) — At a time when top-ranked Russian Anna Kournikova garnered enough attention for even a country as large as hers, few were looking at 25th-ranked  Dementieva coming into the 2000 U.S. Open. Dementieva ran through veterans Conchita Martinez and Anke Huber on her way to the semifinal, where she lost in a tight two-setter to Lindsay Davenport. The Russian would go onto make eight more Grand Slam semifinals in her career (including three at the U.S. Open), winning only two of them and losing both successive finals. Dementieva retired in 2010, considered one of the best players in the history of the sport without a Grand Slam title to her name, but her 2008 Olympic gold medal in women’s singles–an event that she and many other Russians consider more important than the Grand Slams–solidified her place as one of the greats of her generation. Venus Williams (1997, Finalist) — Playing in her first U.S. Open and only her third Grand Slam event, 17-year-old Venus Williams came into the 1997 tournament with a ranking of No. 66 and her hair full of red, white, and blue beads. Wearing a loose, collared Reebok shirt that bore little resemblance to her later skin-tight wardrobe, Williams blasted her way all the way to the final with power, attitude, and controversy. Despite only one previous win at a Grand Slam to her name, Williams ran off six straight victories at the U.S. Open, including wins over seeds Anke Huber and Irina Spirlea. Spirlea, who intentionally bumped into Williams during a change of ends in their semifinal, criticized the young American for being arrogant after the match. Williams would go on to lose the final to 16-year-old Martina Hingis, the youngest Grand Slam final ever contested. Williams would make the semifinals or better in New York the next five years successively, winning the tournament in 2000 and 2001. Darren Cahill (1988) — Though better known as an analyst for ESPN and a coach of Lleyton Hewitt and Andre Agassi, Cahill did have some success of his own on the court at the 1988 U.S. Open. Ranked No. 33, Cahill stunned No. 5 Boris Becker in the second round, dropping only eight games to the mercurial German. The 23-year-old Cahill benefited from a walkover in the third round, and a routine match against 151st-ranked Canadian Martin Laurendeau in the fourth round. But “Killer” Cahill backed up his upset of Becker admirably in the quarterfinal, outlasting Aaron Krickstein in five sets to reach an improbable Grand Slam semifinal. Cahill would lose to second-seeded Swede Mats Wilander in straight sets in that matchl, and would only make it to the second week of a Grand Slam one more time in his career, losing in the fourth round of the 1990 Open to Becker. Corrado Barazzutti (1977) — In only his second time at the U.S. Open, the Italian Barazzutti sprinted into his first Grand Slam semifinal with considerable aplomb. At a time when the first four rounds of the tournament were only best-of-three, Barazzutti put up some incredibly lopsided scorelines, including straight set wins over No. 7 seed Ilie Nastase in the second round and No. 3 seed Brian Gottfried in the quarterfinals. Barazzutti did not drop a set until the semifinal, when he lost in straight sets to No. 2 Jimmy Connors. Barazzutti returned to the U.S. Open in 1978, but never played the Open again after losing in the second round that year, content to focus his efforts on the French Open. Mima Jausovec (1976) — With only one win in her previous two trips to New York, Yugoslavian Jausovec rolled through the 1976 U.S. Open, upsetting No. 4 seed Virginia Wade in the second round and not dropping a set until her dismissal at the hands of Chris Evert in the semifinal. Jausovec would become the first Eastern European woman to win a Grand Slam in the Open Era at the following French Open in 1977, but the feat was diminished by the weak fields that the tournament attracted at the time (Jausovec herself was the top seed in Paris that year, despite her relative lack of accomplishments at that point).  Chris Evert (1971) — Evert did not waste much time establishing herself as a force to be reckoned with in the women’s game. Playing her very first Grand Slam event as a 16-year-old, Evert raced to the semifinals of the 1971 U.S. Open, upsetting No. 5 seed Francoise Durr in the third round before falling to top seed and eventual champion Billie Jean King in the semifinals. Evert would come to dominate the tournament like no other woman in the Open Era, winning it six times, finishing runner-up three times, and making the semifinals or better 16 consecutive years. Journalists from The New York Times and The International Herald Tribune (along with a few dedicated fans) are following the Grand Slam tournaments, on and off the court. They will provide updates, insights, links and analysis while setting the scene from the stands as well as the press room. 
			This blog’s regular features, including live tournament analysis, news and notes from Christopher Clarey, Ben Rothenberg and others, and other coverage, can now be found on the tennis section front.Read more… 
			Venus Williams, ranked No. 63, beat No. 2 Victoria Azarenka in Tokyo on Tuesday, her first win over a player in the top two since 2009.Read more… 
			The United States learned on Wednesday that it would host a first-round tie with Britain for the 2014 Davis Cup.Read more… 
			According to one celebrity marketing index, Andy Murray is the most appealing of the so-called Big Four in men’s tennis. Read more… 
			Sloane Stephens walked the runway Thursday night in the Just Dance With Boy Meets Girl fashion show, modeling the designs of Stacy Igel.Read more… Advertisement