Advertisement By CLAIRE SMITH Two partners of the Yankees lost their attempt to have a Federal Court issue a temporary restraining order to stop George Steinbrenner from resigning by midnight tonight as he agreed to do in a negotiated settlement with Fay Vincent, the commissioner of baseball, on July 30. After a full-day hearing and approximately an hour after Steinbrenner announced he had signed a resignation letter, Judge Alice Batchelder of United States District Court ruled that the plaintiffs, Daniel McCarthy and Harold Bowman, had not shown enough evidence to win the temporary stay. ''The plaintiffs have not met the burden of showing irreparable damage,'' Batchelder said. The judge also said that there is no substantial likelihood, based on evidence presented, that McCarthy and Bowman could win attempts for preliminary as well as permanent injunctions granted at some further point in the judicial process. Batchelder also ruled that, in her belief, Steinbrenner had not been coerced into making the agreement. As she explained, because there was ''no evidence before the court that Mr. Steinbrenner has disavowed the agreement,'' the Federal Court did not have the power to order Steinbrenner to continue as the person in charge of the Yankees' on-field operations, as McCarthy, who owns 4 percent of the team, and Bowman, who owns 0.6 percent, requested. Advertisement Vincent 'Gratified' Vincent, who had argued all along that he would stand on the strength of that agreement, said from his home on Cape Cod, Mass., ''We are obviously gratified by the court's decision which fully supported our position.'' Advertisement McCarthy, who has said he pursued the suit without the endorsement of Steinbrenner, declined to comment other than to say, ''talk to my lawyer.'' Mark Cohn indicated that his clients, McCarthy and Bowman, would attempt to seek a stay in the Sixth Circuit Court in Cincinnati, an effort the legal team vowed would last until midnight. Charles Royer, another lawyer for McCarthy and Bowman, said late tonight that his clients had been unsuccessful in getting a stay but indicated that they would try to do so Tuesday morning. Steve Greenberg, the deputy baseball commissioner, said by telephone from his home in Los Angeles that his understanding was that the denial of a temporary restraining order cannot be appealed. Cohn had attempted through much of the proceedings to show that Vincent had denied his clients' rights by forcing Steinbrenner into the agreement of July 30 that resulted from the commissioner's four-month investigation into the circumstances surrounding a $40,000 payment by the owner to a known gambler, Howard Spira. The owner, Cohn said, was ''very much like a man sentenced to die and was only given his choice of method.''  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. However, Steinbrenner has stated publicly he is happy with the agreement and entered into it voluntarily. Yet, when asked if his clients were challenging merits of the agreement, Cohn said: ''The agreement is absolutely under challenge. Were it not for the kangaroo court conducted by the commissioner, that agreement would not have occurred. The agreement was horribly skewed.'' But lawyers for Vincent and his co-defendant, John Dowd, argued that Cohn's charges that irregularities occurred during the investigation of Steinbrenner by Dowd were not only erroneous but irrelevant. ''If there were irregularities - and we deny there were - they can no longer be an issue because they were merged into the agreement,'' said Patrick McCartan, Vincent's lead lawyer. Advertisement Batchelder agreed with McCartan on that point and ruled in the defense's favor when it objected to any testimony by Cohn's witnesses that would have addressed those alleged irregularities. By the judge sustaining McCartan's objection, Cohn lost the witness he had just called to testify, Robert Banker, a Steinbrenner lawyer. And he also lost the avenue of questioning he had intended to other witnesses, including three other Steinbrenner lawyers - Stephen E. Kaufman, Paul Curran and Robert Gold. Cohn had earlier tried to prove that irreparable harm by introducing an economist, John Burke Jr., and a marketing expert, John Minco, to testify as to Steinbrenner's ''unique'' qualities as owner and the economic differences he had made in his reign, which began in 1973. Burke, a professor at Cleveland State University, cited the Yankees' attendance in a three-year period before Steinbrenner as being 8 percent above average, but in the Steinbrenner era, he said, it was 35 percent above average. In the end, Batchelder said in ruling against the arguments in this area of irreparable harm, ''the evidence here was far from persuasive.'' Unless Cohn can secure a stay or win on appeal, Steinbrenner's resignation seems set and the biggest threat of preemptive court action appears over. At least that's the way baseball officials were treating it tonight. Special to The New York Times We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 21, 1990, on Page D00026 of the National edition with the headline: 2 Yankee Partners Are Rebuffed in Suit.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »