Advertisement By JOE SEXTON and  Consider it a farewell card from the Mets, who loaded their bags and broke up for the All-Star Game hiatus when the afternoon was done. Their metaphoric card -- a 3-1 loss to the Astros -- was full of familiar particulars: There were more errors than runs, there were no clutch hits, there was yet more blindly offered bravado in the aftermath. The question New York is left to ponder about the message from the Mets is this: Was the card merely saying goodbye to a dreadful first half? Or was it suggesting strongly once again that New York say goodbye to the team's 1992 season? With today's sleepwalk through nine innings against the latest representatives from the pitching staff ranked 11th in the National League, the Mets concluded their unofficial half-season with a 42-46 record. Their latest retreat from respectability -- the Mets managed six hits off the previously 2-6 Butch Henry and went 0 for 8 with men on base -- left them seven games back of the Pirates, disquietingly ensconced in fourth place in the National League East. "We're lucky to be only as far back as we are the way we have played," said Manager Jeff Torborg. "I don't know what it's going to take to win the N.L. East. But we've got an awful lot of good playing to do ahead of us." Little Help for Fernandez Advertisement Freshly behind them was today's declaration of dependence on superhuman pitching. Sid Fernandez, undone by errors of misjudgment in the field and no more than a handful of subpar pitches, gave up three runs and in essence didn't have a prayer of emerging triumphant. Advertisement Pat Howell, the rookie who offered the kind of basepath disturbance that Vince Coleman hasn't and currently can't for the Mets in 1992, singled in the first, stole second and was left waiting from there on out as Howard Johnson and Bobby Bonilla couldn't produce a hit. Eddie Murray homered to start the fourth, but that was the last sound of substance the Mets made all afternoon. The Mets stranded Dave Magadan in the fifth and Chico Walker in the sixth, and Henry, the left-hander with the 4.83 earned run average, left after the seventh, unmarked and unafraid of what was to come. Al Osuna outmatched Murray with Johnson on base in the eighth, obtaining a harmless fly ball. The left-hander then got Bonilla to fly out the same route to end the inning, and the Mets concluded their afternoon parade back to the dugout by going down in order against Xavier Hernandez in the ninth. "It happened fast, I'll say that," said Torborg. What is to be said, then, about the chances that the Mets will storm through the second half of the season to grab the division title? Well, the numbers are pretty intimidating. The Mets, figuring 90 triumphs to be about right for what it will require in the National League East, will have to go 48-26 the rest of the way, a .649 brand of baseball. And not only will the Pirates have to falter, but the Cardinals, who have played sounder baseball than the Mets in 1992, and the Expos, who have speed and youth and the infectious energy born of overachievement, will have to tumble as well.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "The second half is when everyone has to play," Bonilla said. "And nothing is impossible." No Trade on the Horizon But nothing, according to Torborg, is imminent in the way of a trade to enhance the odds of the Mets igniting over the last 74 games. Torborg said he was convinced the club didn't require a trade of consequence to equip itself for the final fight. "I don't see that happening," the manager said. Today, the Astros made happen all that was necessary inside two innings. Steve Finley walked against Fernandez with one out in the first and scored when Ken Caminiti's sinking shot to short-center slid under a diving Howell and then eluded a bumbling Bonilla. Advertisement "I thought I had a shot at it," said Howell. "It all happened just like that." And just like that, the Astros produced the kinds of runs the Mets can't. Caminiti was instantly delivered for a 2-0 lead on Jeff Bagwell's sacrifice fly. An inning later, Luis Gonzalez tripled and Casey Candaele, overmatched, nonetheless hung tough against Fernandez and got enough of a high fastball to produce another sacrifice fly and another run. "The entire game was typical of the way things have gone for us," said David Cone. The clubhouse was then surveyed for analysis of the first half of the season, and for projections on the second. "I have spent a lot of time trying to figure out what's wrong with this club," said Dwight Gooden. "I still don't have an answer." Cone took a run at one. "To play .600 baseball, we have got to have guys on base," said Cone. "We need a 1-2 punch at the top of the order, a major spark at the top of the lineup. We haven't had that role filled consistently all season. That's the best I can say." INSIDE PITCH The Mets said that they would not make any roster activations before next weekend, meaning that neither JOHN FRANCO nor VINCE COLEMAN would be in the lineup Thursday at Shea against the Giants. PAT HOWELL will therefore be in center, with HOWARD JOHNSON remaining in left. "I'm baffled about where I stand," said Johnson. He has clearly been upset by managment's handling of his latest position change, and his suspicions are that the move could be permanent. Could Coleman be in center? Could a trade be in the offing? "It's not right to keep a player in the dark," said Johnson . . . BRET SABERHAGEN pitched off the mound effectively again and is scheduled to make a start in a simulated game Thursday. He could then make a minor league start in Binghamton early the following week. . . . EDDIE MURRAY'S homer was his 407th, tying him with DUKE SNIDER for 23d on the career list. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 13, 1992, on Page C00006 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; It's Intermission: Anyone Awake?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »