Advertisement By MICHAEL MARTINEZ The games have become so predictable that it isn't so much a question of if the Yankees will lose as it is when. By the time this afternoon was over, they had lost again to the Oakland Athletics, and they seemed to have no explanation for the way things had gone over the weekend. All they had, in fact, was a plea from their manager, Stump Merrill, who sighed and said, ''Let's get out of here.'' It was time for a change. The A's handed the Yankees a 6-1 loss today to sweep the three-game series at the Oakland Coliseum and stretch their season record over the Yankees to 9-0 and their record against them since the beginning of last season to 18-3. Unhappy Milestone Looms With three games remaining between them this season, the Athletics have a chance to become the first team ever to win every game in a season series against the Yankees. The fewest victories the Yankees have totaled against an opponent in one year is two, excluding the 1981 strike season. They won just two against the Boston Red Sox in 1912, the Minnesota Twins in 1969 and the Baltimore Orioles in 1982. Advertisement But they have likely never been dominated by one team as they have been by the A's, who have outscored them by 43-6 in nine games and have not given up more than two runs in any game this season. In the three losses this weekend, the Yankees combined for just 2 runs and 14 hits. Advertisement ''They're not unbeatable,'' insisted Mel Hall, the Yankee right fielder, ''but you've got to play good baseball to beat them. It just seems like every time we look up, we're down 4-0 or 5-0. That's too big a hole. We have to play a perfect game against them just to stay close.'' The afternoon reached its end quickly for the Yankees. Mike Witt, in his second start since coming off the disabled list last week, was behind by four runs by the time he retired his first batter. Hits by Carney Lansford, Doug Jennings and Dave Henderson sent home one run before Mark McGwire hit a 3-and-2 pitch to right for a three-run homer and a 4-0 lead. Five batters into the second inning, Witt loaded the bases with two out and was removed. That matched his early exit June 8, when he came out of a game at Baltimore after one and two-thirds innings because of an elbow injury. Tough Lineup The problem, Witt said, was bad location. But he also conceded that the Athletics create a different kind of problem for a pitcher.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ''Against a team like that,'' he said, ''you feel like you've got to be a little finer with your pitches. Maybe one reason I had trouble was that I was trying to be too fine. I knew I had to throw a shutout today. You usually feel like if you give up three runs you've done your job. But against the A's, three is too much.'' Especially against Bob Welch, who pitched into the eighth inning and became the first 19-game winner in the major leagues. Since May 5, Welch is 15-2. The Yankees scored their only run off Welch in the second on Bob Geren's run-scoring single to left after walks to Matt Nokes and Jim Leyritz. Welch then struck out Alvaro Espinoza to end the inning, and he never allowed the Yanks to threaten after that. Rickey Honeycutt retired the final five batters for his sixth save. After Witt left, the Yankees received exceptional pitching from Jeff Robinson, Eric Plunk and Lee Guetterman, who held the Athletics without a run until the eighth. Then Guetterman loaded the bases and was replaced by Dave Righetti, who served up a two-run single to Lansford that gave Oakland a five-run cushion. Advertisement And when the day was over, the result was the same it had been all season against the A's: another loss for the Yankees. It kept them two games behind the Milwaukee Brewers in their run for a sixth-place finish in the American League East. When the game was over, someone again asked Merrill whether the Yankees were somehow intimidated by the A's. He shrugged, then said, ''We sure didn't do anything to erase that possibility.'' Team Meeting Merrill held a pregame meeting that didn't last long but gave him an opportunity to make a point with his players. ''I gave them a little wake-up call,'' the manager said. ''No big deal. We've been playing good, but we don't need any distractions. We need to runs balls out and play the game the way it should be played.'' He also told them, without naming anyone, to stop complaining about not playing (Jesse Barfield and Hall have publicly voiced their displeasure over sitting). Special to The New York Times We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 13, 1990, on Page C00002 of the National edition with the headline: A's Remain Perfect Against the Yanks.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »