Advertisement By JORGE ARANGURE Jr.APRIL 12, 2014
 Alfonso Soriano was so successful in anticipating the start of his hot streak this season that he wondered whether he should apply those predictive skills to the lottery. “I should play six numbers today and see what happens,” Soriano said, joking. Soriano’s two hits, including a home run, were part of the offensive onslaught in the Yankees’ 7-4 victory against the Boston Red Sox on Saturday. After starting the season without a hit in his first 18 plate appearances, Soriano is 10 for his last 25 with three home runs. During that four-game hitless streak to begin the season, the 38-year-old Soriano assured reporters that he would be fine as soon as he got his first hit. Sure enough, Soriano’s hot streak started after his fifth-inning single against Toronto Blue Jays reliever Todd Redmond on April 6. “I just feel comfortable,” Soriano said. “I said that as soon as I got my first hit, I would feel more relaxed at home plate. That’s all I tried to do: be relaxed and swing at strikes. That’s why I’ve been working hard in the cage and in B.P.” Advertisement Soriano has always been a streaky hitter. “He can get hot and carry a team,” Manager Joe Girardi said. “That’s what he’s capable of doing, and that’s why he’s important to our lineup.” Advertisement But Soriano has also slumped at inopportune times. He was benched by Joe Torre in favor of Enrique Wilson in Game 5 of the 2003 World Series against the Marlins. Soriano hit just .227 with a .655 on-base plus slugging percentage in that series, which the Yankees lost. Shortly afterward, Soriano was shipped to the Texas Rangers as part of the Alex Rodriguez trade. In two playoff series with the Chicago Cubs — who gave him an eight-year, $136 million deal before the 2007 season — Soriano was 3 for 28.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Yet it is those slumps, he said, that have taught him not to lose his confidence during stretches like the one he had to begin this season. The way he handles a slump in his 14th full season is different from the way he would handle a slump in his first few years. “I think experience helps a lot,” Soriano said. “It’s not going to be the last time that I will go four games without a hit. I wish that it would be the last time, but I know that’s not the case. But my experience now allows me to understand that it’s a 162-game season. Four bad games aren’t going to ruin a season.” Soriano spent several seasons playing for a rebuilding Cubs team, but his career has been revived by his return to the Yankees. Since joining the Yankees last year on July 26 — in exchange for the minor league pitcher Corey Black — Soriano has 20 home runs in 69 games. Soriano’s homer against the Red Sox on Friday — the 408th of his career — put him in sole possession of 50th place on the career list, passing Duke Snider. Without any steroid implications against him, Soriano could be slowly creeping into the Hall of Fame conversation, especially because he appears to still be an offensive force. Not even Soriano could have predicted that he would play this well at this point in his career. “I didn’t expect to have so much success,” he said of his Yankees return. “But I think the motivation and the positivity on this team has helped me become a better player.” A version of this article appears in print on April 13, 2014, on Page SP3 of the New York edition with the headline: Revived Soriano Remains Consistently Streaky Force.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »