Advertisement By DAVE ANDERSON WHEN Yogi Berra was once asked what he thought about while in the batter's box, baseball's eminent philospher blurted, "You can't think and hit at the same time." Many of the Olympic boxing judges would agree. While they're thinking about trying to assess what's happening in the ring above them, they can't seem to hit the blue and red keys on their scoring computer quickly enough to register a punch. As a result, the United States light flyweight, Eric Griffin, is out of the Olympic tournament. Out even though he clearly deserved to win. Out because of a silly scoring system. Out because boxing is boxing. At 5 feet 3 inches and 106 pounds, he is not much wider than a ring post. But pound for pound, he is considered the best of the United States boxers. At age 23, he is the co-captain of the team, the world champion in his division since 1989, twice a finalist for the Sullivan Award as America's outstanding amateur athlete, the father of a 21-month-old son who remained with his mother in their trailer in Sequatchie, Tenn. Advertisement But now Eric Griffin, a second-round loser to Rafael Lozano of Spain, is best known as the latest American boxer to get jobbed in the Olympics. Advertisement In 1984 in Los Angeles, Evander Holyfield, now the world heavyweight champion, was disqualified by a Yugoslav referee. In his semifinal, Holyfield sagged Kevin Barry with a right to the ribs, then floored the New Zealand light heavyweight with a left hook. The referee, Gligorije Novicic, ruled that Holyfield had let go the left hook after he had yelled, "Stop." In 1988 in Seoul, South Korea, welterweight Roy Jones Jr. clearly outpointed Park Si Hun in the final. But three of five judges voted for the South Korean, who raised Jones's hand and told him, "I lost the fight." Ordered by Olympic officials to clean up its judging after that embarrassing decision, the International Amateur Boxing Federation adopted the computerized scoring system. "I remember seeing Roy Jones's fight on television," Griffin was saying yesterday. "I told myself, 'That could happen to me.' And when it did happen, Evander Holyfield came down to see me and told me, 'Don't worry about it.' Not winning that fight hurts. I thought I dominated all three rounds. That guy was no competition for me. But good things are going to happen." Despite his disappointment, Griffin smiled often, his gold front tooth flashing -- the only gold he'll take home.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "But that judge came back after being suspended," he was saying now without a smile. "That's just not kosher." That judge is white-haired Keith Dadzie of Ghana, the primary perpetrator of Saturday's computer heist. Under the system, at least three of the five judges must recognize a scoring punch and depress the appropriate red or blue button within one second for that punch to be credited. The time limit begins with the first judge to depress the points button. If one or two judges depress the button within that one second and the other three do not, the computer does not count that punch. Dadzie had been suspended for two days last week after producing two 0-0 computer scorecards. But the judges' blind draw assigned him to the Griffin-Lozano bout. Over three rounds, the Ghanaian judge's reaction to punches produced an 8-5 edge for Griffin, and the other four judges also had Griffin ahead in punches (26-17 by the Canadian judge, 19-10 by the Pakistani judge, 18-9 by the Yugoslav judge, 10-9 by the Argentine judge: 81-50 in Griffin's favor). But because of the one-second limit, the computer registered only 11 punches, with a 6-5 edge that sent the Spaniard into the quarterfinals when the United States protest was rejected yesterday. Advertisement "It's like if you got a typewriter," Joe Byrd, the United States coach, said of the system. "If you got a guy who don't know how to type, you don't have nothing." Byrd also raised the Nintendo theory: that kids familiar with video games would react quicker than older judges to tapping the blue and red keys on the ringside computer pad. Another theory: a right-handed judge might find it easier to tap the red key on the right rather than the blue key on the left. Griffin was the "blue fighter" in blue trunks and a blue U.S.A. top in Saturday's bout. "I think computer scoring is the thing of the future," said Paul Konnor, the USA Boxing counsel. "But it needs to be refined." One suggested refinement: extend the limit to two seconds. That would provide more time for the judges to think and hit. Not that it would necessarily help. Any computer is only as trustworthy as the human operating it. In the Olympics or in Las Vegas or in Atlantic City, an incompetent judge is an incompetent judge. And no matter where or when, boxing is boxing. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 3, 1992, on Page C00003 of the National edition with the headline: BARCELONA: Sports of the Times; A Lesson in Boxing's Olympic Job Market.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »