Advertisement By FILIP BONDY and  Jenny Thompson could have bettered her own world record in a morning heat today at the Bernat Picornell Pool, but she floated languidly through the final yards when she might have stroked to the contact pad. Why bother? The 100-meter freestyle final tonight was the correct moment for world records and gold medals. "I wanted to go faster tonight and win," Thompson said. But instead, she said, "I just choked coming home big time and I don't know why." Thompson finished second to Zhuang Yong of China, which might as well have been last place when viewed through the distorted lens of expectation. When the top-rated sprinter wins only a silver, it is a time for introspection and analysis. Advertisement Thompson touched the wall for the turn at 50 meters, eight-hundredths of a second behind Zhuang. Everybody waited for Thompson's kick, but it never came. The lead held, even grew a few centimeters, as Yong finished in an Olympic record of 54.64 seconds to Thompson's 54.84, 15-hundredths of a second behind her own morning time. Jittery and Flustered Advertisement Most of the American coaches agreed that Thompson appeared nervous at the start and that she was flustered by the pressure. "I was surprised she beat her like that in the second 50 meters," said Mark Schubert, head coach of the women's swimming team. "Maybe she overstroked her first 50. She didn't have her usual strength."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Thompson agreed that she had little or nothing for the finish. "I saw the Chinese girl to my left and I told myself, 'If you want it, this is the time to make your move,' " Thompson said. "But she had a little left, too." Zhuang, a powerful swimmer like Thompson, was a silver medalist in 1988 and is the world champion over 50 meters. She swam only the fifth-fastest heat this morning, but was saving a great deal. "I have been waiting for four years to get this result," said Zhuang, the first swimmer to win a gold medal for China. "I was hoping to get this medal for that long." One More Time Thompson gets a second shot at an individual gold medal Monday night, in the 200-meter freestyle. She is not the favorite in that event, ranked second behind her teammate, Nicole Haislett. Haislett was a disappointing fourth in the 100-meter race tonight, behind the remarkable 14-year-old Franziska Van Almsick of Germany. Van Almsick will be there again in the 200 meters, swimming with the buoyancy of youth against two Americans who are starting to feel the pressure. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 27, 1992, on Page C00009 of the National edition with the headline: BARCELONA: SWIMMING; Going for Gold, Thompson Says She 'Choked'.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »