Advertisement By WILLIAM C. RHODEN ''Funny, but I don't have any regrets about not playing in the majors. They say that I was born too soon. I say the doors were opened too late.'' - James (Cool Papa) Bell Perhaps the saddest part about James Bell's baseball career was that he was a major leaguer in every sense but name, but never fully realized it. From 1922, when he began his career with the St. Louis Stars, until his retirement in 1950, Bell, known as Cool Papa, was an outfielder for seven teams in the National Negro Baseball League. Established in 1920 by Andrew (Rube) Foster, the league had franchises in six cities. Each team owned its own ball park and eventually operated its own minor league team. In fact, Bell spent the final year of his career in baseball managing the farm team of the Kansas City Monarchs. But Foster's league, which would last in one form or another until the late 1940's, and the accomplishments of its players were undervalued, at least publicly. It was common in those days, even among black players, to distinguish between black and white big league baseball by referring to the so-called white leagues as ''the majors.'' But that's a chapter closed. The true value of the leagues and the players who played in them has been well-chronicled in books and film documentaries. Major league baseball has acknowledged the league's contribution by inducting 11 of its members, including Bell, into the Hall of Fame. Advertisement Unfortunately, Bell, who celebrated his 87th birthday on May 17, found out the hard way that the records, photos, caps and gloves that he'd been told for so many years had no value were now worth thousands of dollars in the cutthroat sports-memorabilia market. Last April, a dealer was indicted on charges of stealing $300,000 worth of photographs, bats, balls, posters, pennants and uniforms that Bell had collected in his 30-year career. According to Bell's daughter, Connie Brooks, who eventually discovered that the items were missing, the men came looking for autographs from Bell. Then over a four-day period they came back, she said, and while one occupied Bell and his 83-year-old wife, the other carried out boxes of relics. Bell has testified that he and his wife felt ''trapped'' and feared that they would be hurt if they attempted to stop the men. Advertisement The dealers, identified as Ed Grybowski and Robert Retort, said they made a deal with Bell to sign bats, balls and caps. They said they paid Bell $500 for the signatures and a suitcase containing uniforms and miscellaneous keepsakes. They said they had sold one of the signed bats for $450. Three weeks later, Bell suffered a stroke. Shortly afterward, Federal Bureau of Investigation agents arrested Retort and charged him with interstate transportation of stolen property. The charges against Grybowski were dismissed. Retort's trial began on July 23 and ended on July 28 with a hung jury, and a mistrial was declared. No date has been set for a new trial and in the interim, Bell's crates of memories are being held by the F.B.I. in St. Louis. While attorneys are reluctant to comment publicily, the fear is that retrieval of Bell's items may be so convoluted a process that the player may not be around to finally take them back. The Government must prove that a crime was committed. If prosecutors can't prove that, it will still try to prove that Bell was a victim of fraud. But even if there was a deal and it was legal, it seems as if it was only marginally so.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In a era when active players are selling autographs and retired players have agents to negotiate deals in the memorabilia market, Bell was a sitting duck for shrewd dealers who go in search of older players who do not have agents and do not know the value of Negro League memorobilia. During the trial, Steven A. Muchnick, an Assistant United States Attorney, said to Retort, ''Did it ever occur to you this might be a mismatch?'' Muchnick declined to comment on the case, but he admitted that he was amazed by the dollar value of baseball artifacts. ''I'm not a baseball memorabilia collector; I never knew there was this kind of market for it,'' he said. ''It's amazing.'' It is also yet another problem area that major league baseball will have to confront before long. The same month that Cool Papa Bell was allegedly being robbed, Bob Engel, a crew chief among National League umpires and a 24-year veteran with the league, was arrested for stealing 4,180 baseball cards from a retail store in California. Asked why he took the cards, Engel told law-enforcement officials, ''To collect and trade.'' Engel later entered a no-contest plea, and he is undergoing counseling. He retired last month. That larger issue is a problem for baseball in the future. The immediate concern is how to have Bell's hard-earned collection returned. While the memories players create are public domain and their skills operate at the whim of time, the tools of their trade and their private mementos are personal property. Retort's arrangement with Bell was no deal; it was a steal. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 7, 1990, on Page B00009 of the National edition with the headline: SPORTS OF THE TIMES;   Cool Papa's Stolen Moments.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »