Advertisement By DAVE ANDERSON IN other moments, Tom Kite had steamed silently and politely when he was reminded that he was the best golfer never to have won a major championship. But now, with the United States Open trophy glistening next to him, he finally acknowledged how much the question about the absence of a major title had annoyed him. "Bugged the living daylights out of me," he said. Kite's triumph had been written on the wind that gusted up to 35 miles an hour across the cliffs and coves of Pebble Beach yesterday in the Open's final round. Twenty of the world's best golfers had shot in the 80's, but this Kite had been steady in the wind for a par 72 and a three-under-par total of 285, two strokes better than Jeff Sluman. No longer would Kite be known merely for having won the most money on the PGA Tour, more than $7 million. "I always felt good about Tom Kite and his career," he was saying now. "But the only thing most people would say was, 'You've done all these things, but when are you going to win a major?' Like all the other things I've done didn't matter. It was such a narrow focus. There are people who have won majors who I wouldn't trade careers with." Advertisement Then he smiled and said, "Surely not now." All that prize money had never been able to buy the stature that Kite suddenly was smiling about now, the stature that the Open trophy assured. The oldest living Open champion, 90-year-old Gene Sarazen, once mentioned that if an important golfer doesn't win the Open, "there's a gap in his record." But now there's no gap in Kite's record. Advertisement "I really feel," he said, "like I perform really well when it counts." To have won 16 other PGA Tour events and more than $7 million, Kite had to perform well when it counted. But all those millions merely enlarged the monkey on his back when he didn't win the 1989 Open at Oak Hill outside Rochester, after having had a three-stroke lead in the final round going to the 406-yard fifth hole. He pushed his tee shot into a stream and took a triple-bogey 7. He later double-bogeyed both the 13th and 15th holes en route to a 78, finishing five strokes behind that year's champion, Curtis Strange. "That was my biggest disappointment," Kite acknowledged. "I still feel like that was my tournament to win or lose and I lost it. This time this was my tournament to win or lose and I won it." Now 42 years old, Kite speaks with a firm Texas twang. He grew up and still lives in Austin, where he was tutored originally by Harvey Penick, one of golf's legendary gurus. His hands are puffed from having hit thousands and thousands of golf balls. Behind glasses, his eyes narrow when he's surveying a putt from under the brim of his planter's hat. "But golf isn't an individual game," he said. "You can't beat all these players out here without a great family."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Near the 18th green his wife, Christy, the mother of their three children, joked, "I'm sure now the question will be, 'When will you win your second major?' " His father, Tom Sr., a retired Internal Revenue Service official, also alluded to the question that no longer has to be asked. "I always thought Tom was a good player and a good man," his father said. "I didn't think it took a major to make him one." His father handed him a cut-down 3-iron when he was 3 years old and he has been swinging golf clubs ever since. At the University of Texas, he played in Ben Crenshaw's shadow. But he's won much more money than Crenshaw and his Open title now matches Crenshaw's only major: the 1984 Masters green jacket. Advertisement "It's not the best golf tournament I've ever had," Kite said. "But for hanging in there on a difficult golf course in difficult conditions, this is the best." Hanging in there to win is important to any golfer in any tournament, especially in the Open, a tournament that always seemed suited to Kite's game: straight off the tee, consistent irons, good putter on firm greens. But strangely, until yesterday, his highest Open finish had been a tie for eighth in 1974 as a PGA Tour rookie. For all his millions, he had earned only $83,494 in Open prize money. But the winner's check was for $275,000, lifting his career total to $7,439,440. Now he can put the Open trophy on top of all his bank books. "It's a cruel game sometimes. It's a cruel game," he said after blowing the Open lead at Oak Hill. "But I'm not going to curl up and die because of one round of golf. I'll come back and contend in some more majors. I promise you." Yesterday, in a wind that blew apart the world's other best golfers, Tom Kite kept his promise. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 22, 1992, on Page C00003 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of the Times; A Kite Steady in the Wind.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »