Advertisement By ZACH SCHONBRUNAPRIL 10, 2014
 After all the money spent, after the Yankees poached a star Boston outfielder and the Red Sox brought his World Series ring to Yankee Stadium, after all this, the story line in the first meeting of 2014 belonged to Michael Pineda’s right hand. It took three innings before controversy snaked its way into the affair at Yankee Stadium, when a brownish substance appeared on the heel of Pineda’s right palm, a suspicious substance that quickly lit up social media. Pineda certainly did not seem to hide it as he pitched; after the game, he claimed it was dirt. The Red Sox also never objected to it during the game, and Pineda cruised along uninhibited (hand unwashed) in a dominant performance in just his second start since 2011. The Yankees won, 4-1, evening their record at 5-5. After the game, Manager Joe Girardi repeatedly stuck by his statement that he never saw anything on Pineda’s palm. Advertisement “There’s not much for me to speak on concerning that,” Girardi said. “All I know is he pitched extremely well, and we are glad to have him back.” Advertisement The speculation centered on the notion that Pineda was using pine tar to help his grip, an issue that has come up often in recent years with pitchers in cool weather, including Pineda’s opposing starter, Clay Buchholz. He was accused of using a substance to improve his grip on the baseball last May during a start against the Toronto Blue Jays. Red Sox pitcher Jon Lester was suspected of having a green substance in his glove during Game 1 of the 2013 World Series. Red Sox Manager John Farrell said he was made aware of the screen shots from the Yankees and Boston telecasts that seemed to show a sticky brown substance on Pineda’s hand in the fourth inning. But when Pineda came back out for the fifth inning, his hand appeared clean. “By the time I was made aware of it, it was after the fourth and it was pretty clear by looking at it from the dugout that his palm was clean,” Farrell said. Red Sox players did not raise their voices about the issue either, perhaps because their teammates were accused of similar tactics a season ago. “We have pine tar on the bat,” second baseman Dustin Pedroia said. “That’s a nonissue for us.” David Ortiz said: “Everybody uses pine tar in the league. It’s not a big deal.” Pineda said that between innings, his hands would sweat and he rubbed them with dirt. He added that nobody brought up anything about it to him. Brian O’Nora, the crew chief Thursday, said nothing about Pineda’s hand was brought to the umpires’ attention.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Farrell, a former pitching coach, said he understood that pitchers sometimes looked for tools like pine tar to improve their grip on chilly nights, even venturing that it was not uncommon in today’s game. Advertisement He added, though, “Typically you’re not trying to be as blatant.” The 6-foot-7 Pineda, who missed all of 2012 and 2013 after surgery to repair a torn labrum, has looked impressive for the Yankees, who have waited two years to see this side of the pitcher they traded for. Controversy over the brownish substance aside, Pineda retired 11 of the first 12 batters he faced and did not allow a hit until the fifth inning. His fastball touched the upper 90s in the first inning, and he showed deft command of his slider. Pineda finished with seven strikeouts in six-plus innings and allowed just four hits and one run. “You heard all last year he was frustrated,” Derek Jeter said. “I know because I was down there with him.” Jacoby Ellsbury, the former Red Sox All-Star who signed with the Yankees for $153 million in December, went 1 for 4 with a run batted in against Buchholz, his former roommate at Class AA Lowell. Ellsbury also scored the game’s first run after a single by Brian McCann, whose hit snapped an 0-for-14 skid. The Yankees added two runs in the fifth, including a solo home run by Dean Anna, the first of his career. The Yankees came into the game with limited options in the back end of their bullpen. David Robertson is on the disabled list, and his two replacements, Shawn Kelley and Adam Warren, were unavailable after pitching three times in the last four games. The patchwork bullpen effort did its job, however, and the Red Sox fell for the sixth time in their first 10 games, a sluggish start after their stirring run through October last season. Still, there are 18 games left in the regular season between the two clubs. In all likelihood, things are only starting to heat up. INSIDE PITCH The rookie infielder Yangervis Solarte went 0 for 3, snapping his seven-game hitting streak. Solarte was the first Yankee since Hideki Matsui to record a hit in his first seven major league starts, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. Tyler Kepner contributed reporting.
  A version of this article appears in print on April 11, 2014, on Page B10 of the New York edition with the headline: Yanks Win in Style, but Most of Focus Is on a Substance.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »