Advertisement Supported by By Joe Drape The chairman of the Jockey Club, one of horse racing’s most influential groups, called Monday for the veterinary records of every horse competing in this year’s Triple Crown races to be made public immediately. He said the goal was to ensure that the horses were sound and not under the influence of unnecessary drugs and that the races were run safely and fairly. The club’s chairman, Ogden Mills Phipps, the owner of last year’s Kentucky Derby victor, Orb, said the Jockey Club had already endorsed federal legislation that would put the United States Anti-Doping Agency in charge of the sport, which has been unable to eradicate a pervasive drug culture. He said it was vital, however, to take meaningful steps now that demonstrate to the public that the sport takes restoring integrity seriously. “It can bring greater credibility to the races that define our sport at a time when millions are watching,” Phipps said in a statement, referring to the Kentucky Derby, the Preakness and the Belmont Stakes. Phipps also said that the trainer Steve Asmussen, who ranks second in trainers’ career victories, should not participate in the Derby. Asmussen and his top assistant, Scott Blasi, are under investigation by state and federal authorities over accusations that they subjected their horses to cruel treatments, including administering drugs for nontherapeutic purposes and having one of their jockeys use an electronic device to shock horses into running faster. The inquiries were prompted by a four-month undercover investigation by the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals and included more than seven hours of hidden camera video. Asmussen’s name was removed from the Racing Hall of Fame ballot on March 21, a day before he fired Blasi, his assistant of 18 years. “His presence and participation would indicate that it’s just ‘business as usual’ in the thoroughbred industry,” Phipps said in the statement. Asmussen’s lawyer, Clark Brewster, said that there was no merit to the PETA complaints and that Asmussen conformed to “the rules of racing and under the auspices of a practicing veterinarian” in the same manner in which the medication is administered to horses raced by Phipps. “Mr. Asmussen would welcome racing rules that implement more transparency and invites Mr. Phipps to contact him directly to discuss how he can help in this industrywide effort,” Brewster said. Asmussen trains a Derby contender, Tapiture, a colt owned by Winchell Thoroughbreds. David Fiske, the racing manager for Winchell Thoroughbreds, did not respond to messages. Last month, after the investigations were opened, Fiske said that moving Tapiture from Asmussen would upset the routine of the horse and compromise its chance of winning. Two years ago, New York authorities required trainers with Belmont Stakes entries to submit veterinary records for their horses beginning on the Wednesday before the race. Last year, it made those records available on its website, and has continued to do so in its marquee races like the Travers Stakes and the Wood Memorial. Last year, the Kentucky Horse Racing Commission enacted 24-hour surveillance on the 20 Derby horses and required their trainers, their veterinarians and others to log in and log out. Syringes were collected, and expanded drug testing was in place.  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS