Advertisement By MURRAY CHASS One lawyer calls it the greatest bank in the world. ''You don't have to make any deposits,'' he said, ''and you can make all the withdrawals you want.'' The bank in question has no money, but it has lots of information about money, money offered to free agents. It is the free-agent information bank of the Player Relations Committee, and it is the latest source of controversy between the clubs and the players over the owners' approach to free agents in recent years. The P.R.C., the clubs' labor body, operates the information bank with what it says is voluntary input from the clubs. When a club makes an offer to a free agent, it may, if it chooses, inform the P.R.C. of the offer. Another club that is interested in the same player may call the P.R.C. and learn about that offer and any other negotiating information available about that player and any other player. The P.R.C. says it established the information bank to eliminate direct communications between clubs. Such communications have been cited as part of the conspiracy of which the clubs have been found guilty by two arbitrators. Advertisement The bank was in operation last year, but the Players Association learned about its existence only this year, during hearings in the third conspiracy case. The association asked George Nicolau, the arbitrator who decided the second case and is hearing the third, to enjoin the P.R.C. and the clubs from operating the bank, contending that it violated the rules of free agency. Advertisement Last Wednesday, Nicolau refused the union's request, saying that the validity of the procedure is at the heart of the so-called Collusion III case (which deals with 1987 free agents) and to rule on it now would be premature. However, he ordered the P.R.C. to give the union any information from the bank that it might request. The union has said it will ask for all information. The P.R.C. defends the bank, saying it generates competitive bidding for free agents. How? For one thing, the P.R.C. says, if a club knows what others are offering a player and isn't just bidding in a vacuum, it tends to make a more attractive offer. For another, agents sometimes don't tell a club the truth about other offers and if the club were certain of the real offers, it might compete for the player more aggressively. Donald Fehr, the union chief, does not buy the arguments. ''I cannot conceive that it's pro-competitive,'' he said. ''I have to believe it would have an anti-competitive effect and that's why we asked the arbitrator to enjoin it.'' The association believes that if clubs know precisely what other clubs have offered a player, they would keep their offers in line with those already made. Fehr has written a letter to all of the players informing them about the existence of the information bank. He told them that the association had known previously that the clubs were sharing information but didn't know how widespread the practice was. The clubs, he wrote, kept the bank ''a closely guarded secret until forced to reveal it in Collusion III.'' In the letter, Fehr told the players that they could take the position in their negotiations with clubs that any offers remain confidential and not be shared with other clubs. If the clubs pursue this year's free agents as vigorously as some have indicated they would, the bank should, before long, be bulging with information. Then the clubs can get it and the union and the players can get it. The only ones left out will be the fans. Unless they find out where the P.R.C. keeps the withdrawal slips.  Communication Problem Advertisement So much has been made of Tommy John's age - he's a remarkably youthful 45 - that recently his 5-year-old son, Taylor, had a question. ''Is Daddy as old as Grandma?'' Taylor asked his mother. Dallas Green must think so. The Yankees' new manager, to whom George Steinbrenner has relinquished all pitching authority, summarily dismissed John at lunch two weeks ago, declaring that 45 is old. John is a free agent now, having chosen that status rather than accept an assignment to the minor leagues that would not have included a chance to win a major league job next spring. The Yankees, of course, had the right to drop John from their roster, but the way in which they disclosed their plans showed a lack of class. It also raised a question about communication in the organization. Only the week before Green's pronouncement, General Manager Bob Quinn was talking about asking John to accept a move to the Columbus roster, but only as a paper move. It would have enabled the Yankees to protect another young player on their 40-man major league roster but would not have prevented John from pitching for the Yankees next season, or at least competing for a job next spring. By the time Quinn followed that plan, though, Green had publicly and indirectly notified the pitcher that he was not welcome on the new manager's team. Two years ago, Steinbrenner told John, ''You can pitch with the Yankees as long as you can pitch effectively.'' In the two seasons since, John was effective enough and healthy enough to make 65 starts, most on the club. Of the 150 pitchers who qualified as starters in baseball's ranking statistics for that period, only 27 (14 in the American League, 13 in the National) made more starts.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. John was not too old last year to anchor the starting rotation while such younger pitchers as Al Leiter, John Candelaria, Rick Rhoden, Richard Dotson and Ron Guidry took turns nursing injuries. Candelaria nursed his ailing knee the last six weeks of the season, quitting on the team in the middle of a pennant race. Yet Candelaria was one of the first players Green called after he became manager. It's too bad that he, or someone else in the organization, didn't have a few minutes to call John and tell him that what he did over the past two years didn't warrant even a chance to show that he could do it again.  Adjusting to New Position Ken Dayley, a left-handed relief pitcher, was the first of 12 free-look free agents to sign a new contract. He remained with the St. Louis Cardinals, agreeing to a two-year, $1.85 million contract, which includes a $250,000 signing bonus and a salary of $800,000 each year. His salary this year was $610,000. Advertisement Left-handed relief pitchers are valuable, but his 1988 performance (2-7 record, 5 saves, 2.77 earned run average) would not have produced that kind of contract had he not been granted another chance at free agency as a result of the second collusion case. The San Francisco Giants, for one, had also tried to sign Dayley. Steve Sax and Mike Marshall are among the 74 players who declared themselves free agents. A week ago they were fully prepared to leave the Los Angeles Dodgers because the club, citing a previously stated policy, said it would not negotiate multiyear contracts with them after midnight Nov. 4. The Dodgers, however, decided to change their policy. Instead of watching their second baseman and right fielder leave, they re-opened contract talks with them. They reached agreement Friday with Marshall on a three-year contract for $3.5 million and they continue to negotiate with Sax. ''It wasn't easy for us, but it came down to not being able to accomplish what we wanted to accomplish,'' Fred Claire, the general manager, said, explaining the change in policy. ''The deadline was there for a number of years, but it didn't work this time and it obviously was an obstacle to signing two important players.'' Claire, who last said, ''we will not change our position,'' understands how the Dodgers' action might look to others and he also understands that the club can't reinstitute the policy next year. ''It seems to me you'd have a difficult time doing it,'' he said.  Agent's Vows Jerry Kapstein, one of baseball's veteran agents, represents 7 of the 74 free agents. One is Andy Hawkins, a pitcher whom the San Diego Padres are trying to re-sign. Kapstein recently married Linda Smith, daughter of Joan Kroc, the Padres' owner. Speculation had Kapstein changing sides and becoming president of the Padres, as Ballard Smith, Smith's former husband, had been. However, that move apparently isn't in the immediate future. ''Jerry assured us that he has no intention of becoming the president,'' said Dennis Rasmussen, a Padres pitcher and Kapstein client. ''He likes his job. He assured us he'll keep the two strictly separate. He's got a job to do and he's going to do it. We have confidence in his word.'' Advertisement Nevertheless, one scenario has the ingredients for producing the most intriguing negotiation of the year. Kapstein, son-in-law of the owner, represents a San Diego pitcher, Greg Booker, who is the son-in-law of Jack McKeon, the Padres' general manager and manager.  Down the Drain Greg Minton of the California Angels and Rich Gossage of the Chicago Cubs gained the dubious distinction of leading their respective leagues this year in ''blown saves,'' each squandering 10 save opportunities. Right behind them with 9 each were two relief pitchers in each league, Dave Righetti of the Yankees, Bobby Thigpen of the Chicago White Sox, Todd Worrell of St. Louis and Bruce Sutter of Atlanta. According to statistics compiled by the people who tabulate the Rolaids relief standings, the Angels and the Cubs led in the team totals of blown saves, 28 for the Angels, 27 for the Cubs. The Yankees were third in the majors with 23. The Angels (.541) and the Cubs (.518) also had the lowest percentages of saves gained in save opportunities. Milwaukee (.879) and the Mets (.852) had the highest percentages. The Brewers squandered only 7 saves in 58 chances, the Mets 8 in 54. No other team had a single-digit total of blown saves. John Franco of Cincinnati had the best save percentage, .929 (39 in 42) among relievers with at least 20 save opportunities. He was followed by Randy Myers of the Mets .897 (26-29), Tom Henke of Toronto .862 (25-29) and Doug Jones of Cleveland .860 (37-43). Dennis Ecklersley of Oakland, the major league leader with 45 saves, had an .849 percentage, seventh in the majors. Roger McDowell of the Mets had an .800 percentage (16-20), and Righetti was at .735 (25-34), placing him 22d among the 26 relievers with 20 or more chances. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 13, 1988, on Page 8008002 of the National edition with the headline: Baseball Notebook; Players Can Share Information Bank's 'Assets'.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »