Advertisement By ROBIN FINN When 30-year-old Andres Gomez accepted his French Open trophy, his first memorable booty in more than a decade of Grand Slam endeavors, he likened the experience to watching his career ascend and explode like a sunrise. Just a few months earlier, he dabbled with the idea of retirement, purchased some shares in a shrimp farm, and came quite close to kissing his competitive days goodbye. But he decided he would regret it too much if he walked away without winning the Paris title, and once he accomplished that, he realized he wasn't ready to leave. But Gomez has been groping in the darkness since then, and yesterday afternoon at the United States Open, the fifth-seeded player posted his most discouraging result here in 10 years when he was eliminated in the first round by Luiz Mattar of Brazil. No Immediate Comment After the 6-2, 3-6, 6-3, 6-3 loss to the world's 66th-ranked player, Gomez, normally a genial opponent, stalked off the court, brushed past his coach, Patricio Rodriquez, without a word, and announced that he was putting himself on the first flight to Ecuador. Advertisement ''The world was still spinning for him just then,'' Rodriquez said. ''He loves this tournament. Wimbledon was nothing. He just went there to see what would happen, but he had hopes for this one.'' Advertisement The Open had always struck Gomez as much closer to paradise than purgatory, but like Dorothy in Oz, all he wanted to do was go home once he found himself delivered into uncharted professional and emotional territory by two consecutive first-round losses in Grand Slam competition. Gomez could afford to brush off his cameo appearance at Wimbledon this year because he had not, in the wake of the celebration that accompanied his French Open triumph, had more than three days of practice before he played there. Some Second Thoughts ''Maybe I should have taken Wimbledon off,'' he said yesterday after he had calmed down sufficiently to review his disappointment on Court 3. ''But I tried to prepare for this tournament, and it's not even like I gave him the match. I tried to win it; I couldn't. For right now, I have had enough of tennis. I need to go home and forget everything. I haven't had a real week off in five months.'' According to Rodriquez, Gomez left his rose-colored glasses in place a little too long after succeeding in Paris. ''When you relax, it takes your form away, and he's relaxed and he's paying for it now,'' Rodriquez said. ''This is a little bit like an alarm clock sounding off for him. Times heals everything, good and bad. Now is the time for him to forget the French, forget this, and get back out and suffer a little more on the court.'' Gomez recalled being beaten by Mattar twice before, and he blamed himself for being overtentative in the third set, when he had a chance to break the Brazilian just after evening things at one set apiece. ''I played too defensive,'' he said. ''He can play pretty good, and he did today.'' Opponent's Analysis  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ''When he plays well, he can beat anybody,'' said Mattar, who had not won a match here in three previous visits. ''When he plays so-so, then other players can take him. Sometimes he was serving two aces in a row, sometimes he missed a lot of first serves. That's how he is.'' Advertisement Goran Ivanisevic, seeded 15th, also found himself stuck in the hinterlands of the sidecourts, and, like Gomez, he didn't react compatibly to it. Ivanisevic, the gangly Yugoslav teen-ager who spurts out aces as if his left arm is both automated and atomic, was furious at himself for letting Omar Camporese of Italy stretch him to four sets, 1-6, 6-4, 6-1, 7-6, before he poured on enough power to wilt Camporese in the final tie breaker. ''I was worried because I played terrible tennis, the worst match of my life,'' Ivanisevic said. ''I was just pushing the ball back. I played really ridiculous, like I had a lot of pressure and was afraid to hit the balls.'' ''It's better to have a bad match like this first than later,'' said the 18-year-old, who knocked Boris Becker from the first round of the French Open. Ivan Lendl (No. 2), who believes he is pacing himself to survive a full two-week stint here, plowed past Michael Stich of West Germany, 6-4, 5-7, 6-3, 6-3, on the stadium court. But Malivai Washington, the player who defeated Lendl at the Volvo International in New Haven two weeks ago, played sloppily yesterday and did not advance beyond his second-round meeting with Kevin Curren. The 32-year-old Curren, the oldest player in the men's draw. showed that practice occasionally outshines promise as he snubbed the talented but erratic Glen Cove, L.I., native in straight sets, 7-5, 7-6, 6-4. John McEnroe, ranked No. 20, defeated 128th-ranked David Engel, 6-2, 6-3, 7-5. ''Because the court's a bit quick, it suits my kind of attacking style,'' said McEnroe, who reversed a 2-5 deficit in the third set. Among the women, second-seeded Martina Navratilova dashed through her second-round match against Clare Wood of Britain, 6-0, 6-4, but was less than satisfied by her performance. ''I got nervous in the second set because she started to pick up her game and I went down,'' Navratilova said. ''The more you do this, the more nervous you get, because it means more.'' ''When you're 16, you've got 20 years of U.S. Opens ahead, but I don't,'' said Navratilova, who is 33. ''Every one could be my last one. It's precious.'' Advertisement Gabriela Sabatini(No. 5) easily defeated Isabelle Demongeot of France, 6-1, 6-1, and later said she realized she had ''something to prove'' to herself and the tennis community about her Grand Slam mettle. Sabatini's best Grand Slam result came here in 1988, when she met Steffi Graf in the final. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 30, 1990, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: TENNIS;   Mattar, No. 66, Knocks Gomez Out of Open.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »