Advertisement By GERALD ESKENAZI With umpires, television cameras, an opposing manager and curious Yankee fans playing detective, Tim Leary seemed to be squeaky-clean last night. The pitcher who was the center of a protested game last Sunday, when the Orioles contended he was scuffing baseballs, delivered a fine seven-inning stint against the White Sox as the Yankees returned from a 14-game, 14-day road trip. He held Chicago to one run and three hits, issuing a career-high eight walks. But the game was lost in the top of the ninth when reliever John Habyan, who had not yielded a home run to a left-handed batter since July 3, 1988, watched Robin Ventura's blast sail into the bleachers. That broke a 1-1 tie and lifted the Sox to their sixth straight victory. "I've got nothing to say," said Leary, who was outpitched by Kirk McCaskill's eight strong innings. The threat of disciplinary action still hangs over Leary. Advertisement McCaskill, meanwhile, gave one up significant hit -- a seventh-inning homer to Kevin Maas. As the game began, the WPIX cameras were zeroed in. They peered into the White Sox dugout to see whether the visitors were looking for scuffed balls (they weren't), and they zoomed in on Leary when he worked the ball in his glove to see what he was doing (nothing improper, or so it seemed). Advertisement Of course, he would have to be silly to try anything, wouldn't he? Dave Phillips, the umpire crew chief last Sunday night, was the home-plate umpire last night. Was Leary doing anything to the ball this time? "It was a non-factor," Phillips said after the game. "Not even an innuendo." But last week, the Orioles presented Phillips with a number of baseballs they insisted were scuffed, and then sent them by courier to American League President Bobby Brown. Brown's office said last night he would not rule on the controversy until Monday.  No Carry-Over From Baltimore Manager Buck Showalter said after Leary's outing, "He bent, but he didn't break." And the manager added there was no carry-over from the Orioles' controversy.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Before the game, rookie Manager Gene Lamont of the White Sox said, no, he hadn't discussed Leary's alleged ball-tampering with his team. "If you talk too much about it to the guys it becomes a distraction. I'm sure the umpires will be watching him tonight." The Yankees had been away from home so long that Showalter remarked, "I've forgotten which keys work in which door." This was the first time the players had seen Danny Tartabull since he left the club Tuesday in Kansas City to be with his wife Kellie, who delivered a baby after a difficult pregnancy. Admits Play Suffered Tartabull said the seven-pound boy, named Zachary Gary, was born several weeks prematurely and had lung problems, but is progressing. Advertisement He admitted that because of the difficulty his wife had in the weeks before giving birth, his play was affected. But he had the presence of mind to "deke" Rocky Roe, the first-base umpire, in the fourth inning. Craig Grebeck hit a dying pop to right that Tartabull chased toward the line and finally slid for. He stuck out his glove and it popped in, with Roe signaling "out." But the replay, taken from a side angle, clearly showed the ball bouncing on the grass and into the glove. INSIDE PITCH KEVIN MAAS's home run was his third in three games. . . . Manager BUCK SHOWALTER has learned the fine art of avoiding direct questions with the press. Asked at first whether he had met with Commissioner FAY VINCENT, he replied, "No, I haven't met with the commissioner." Then he conceded, "Yes, I met with the commissioner's representative." The talks centered on whether GEORGE STEINBRENNER had ever called him. Showalter said he hadn't. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 27, 1992, on Page 1001031 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Sandpaper II: Leary Pure But Rough Finish for Yanks.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »