Advertisement Supported by Baseball Roundup By The Associated Press Jim Johnson, Oakland’s new closer, blew another save chance, but Derek Norris hit a three-run homer in the 11th inning on the road to give the Athletics a 7-4 victory over the Minnesota Twins on Wednesday. “When someone doesn’t come through, the next guy comes up and fills in for him,” Norris, a backup catcher who also homered Monday, said. Dan Otero recorded the last eight outs to earn the win. Johnson, who had 50 saves for Baltimore last season, has given up seven runs and nine hits and walked six in five appearances with the A’s. On Wednesday, with the bases loaded and one out in the ninth, Johnson nearly struck out Eduardo Escobar, but the pitch that would have been Strike 3 was ruled a foul tip. Escobar then poked a single to left field to cut Oakland’s lead to 4-3. Johnson was replaced by Otero, who allowed a sacrifice fly. Minnesota trailed, 4-0, after a rocky first inning by Phil Hughes, who needed 40 pitches to record his first out. REDS 4, CARDINALS 0 The Cincinnati rookie Billy Hamilton had three hits and his first two steals of the season and scored on a sacrifice fly that cleared the infield by only about 20 or 25 feet. The Reds’ Mike Leake allowed four hits and walked one in eight scoreless innings as the Reds avoided a three-game sweep at St. Louis. RED SOX 4, RANGERS 2 David Ortiz hit a three-run homer high over the Pesky Pole in the eighth inning, helping Boston rally for a home victory. ROYALS 7, RAYS 3 Alex Gordon hit a three-run shot, Kansas City’s first homer this season, against visiting Tampa Bay. The Royals were the last team in the majors without a home run. BLUE JAYS 7, ASTROS 3 Brandon Morrow earned a win for the first time in almost 11 months, and Toronto beat visiting Houston, which has lost six of seven after a 2-0 start. Morrow, limited to 10 starts last season with a nerve injury in his forearm, last had a win on May 23, 2013. He allowed three runs and five hits in six innings, walked one and struck out nine. NATIONALS 10, MARLINS 7 Bryce Harper started a comeback from an early deficit with an upper-deck, three-run homer, and Jayson Werth hit a go-ahead grand slam in the eighth inning for host Washington, which overcame Miami leads of 5-0 and 7-6. BREWERS 9, PHILLIES 4 Ryan Braun hit a two-run triple during a four-run eighth inning to lead visiting Milwaukee to its fifth straight win. CUBS 7, PIRATES 5 Anthony Rizzo had four hits, and Chicago won at home despite allowing five solo home runs. ROCKIES 10, WHITE SOX 4 A two-run single by D. J. LeMahieu broke a 4-4 tie and helped kick off a six-run eighth inning for host Colorado. INDIANS AND PADRES SPLIT TWO In the second game of a doubleheader, Robbie Erlin allowed one run in six innings, and a Chase Headley single in the sixth drove in the go-ahead run, helping San Diego earn a 2-1 road win. Cleveland won the early game, 2-0, with Zach McAllister pitching seven and two-thirds scoreless innings. ANGELS’ HAMILTON ON D.L. Los Angeles Angels outfielder Josh Hamilton will be sidelined for six to eight weeks because of a torn ligament in his left thumb, the team said. Hamilton was injured Tuesday night against Seattle during a headfirst slide into first base. The Angels said Hamilton, who was placed on the 15-day disabled list, would be examined Friday to determine whether surgery was needed. NEW AWARDS FOR RELIEVERS Major League Baseball said it had created a Mariano Rivera American League Reliever of the Year Award and a Trevor Hoffman National League Reliever of the Year Award. Rivera retired after last season. Hoffman retired after the 2010 season. Both spent their entire careers in one league. The new honors replace the Delivery Man of the Year Award, given to one winner annually from 2005 to 2013. The voters for the awards will be nine retired relievers, including Rivera and Hoffman.    Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS