Advertisement By JACK CURRY and  For all the games Scott Kamieniecki lost and deserved to lose in this trying season, this was one game he probably could have won. But he did not because the Yankees stumbled offensively for most of the night and then Kamieniecki tripped on his own. After the Yankees finally rallied from a 2-0 deficit to tie the score in the eighth inning against the White Sox, Kamieniecki tossed a wild pitch in the bottom of the inning that scored Steve Sax with the decisive third run and propelled Chicago to a 6-2 victory at Comiskey Park. Kamieniecki was apparently upset with Matt Nokes after his third wild pitch of the night bounced off the catcher's left thigh and allowed Sax to sprint home. Kamieniecki threw his arms in the air, looked into the dugout and then appeared to scream at Nokes. George Bell, the batter during the wild pitch, followed with a run-scoring double, and Shawn Abner added a two-run double off Tim Burke to finish the scoring and finish the Yankees. They have lost 14 of their last 19 games. Silence in the Clubhouse Though it was obvious Kamieniecki had hollered in Nokes's direction, the Yanks didn't offer any information about the outburst after the game. Manager Buck Showalter said he was not sure whom Kamieniecki was yelling at. Nokes said he did not hear anything. And, most revealing of all, Kamieniecki declined to comment when asked what he was jawing about. Advertisement "Who is to say it is directed at Matt?" said Kamieniecki (2-10), who has one victory in his last 16 starts. "Maybe I'm just mad at myself. Maybe I'm just mad the situation happened. Why do I have to be mad at anybody?" Advertisement Nokes gave this account of the incident: "The winning run just came in. What is he going to say, 'Oh, great!'? I don't know what he said. Ask him. I didn't hear anything." Kamieniecki was asked three different times if he was yelling at Nokes. "No comment on that," he said. Walk Preceded Wild Pitch By walking Sax to start the eighth, Kamieniecki did something that was almost as damaging from a pitcher's perspective as making the wild pitch. Sax advanced to second on a bizarre play when Tim Raines bunted and third baseman Charlie Hayes ran right past it, turning it into a single. A flyout by Frank Thomas sent Sax to third and set the stage for Kamieniecki's wild pitch and flareup with Nokes.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The White Sox also scored their second run on a breaking ball that bounced in the dirt and eluded Nokes for a wild pitch in the third inning. So when the third run crossed on another stray breaking ball, Kamieniecki showed his dissatisfaction. But Nokes said he did not notice anything abnormal about Kamieniecki's behavior. New Game for Half an Inning The Yankees trailed, 2-0, in the eighth when they rallied off Alex Fernandez and Scott Radinsky to tie the score. The first run scored when Roberto Kelly grounded into a forceout, and Kelly moved to second when Sax, trying for a double play, tossed his relay throw into the Yankee dugout. The error was crucial because Don Mattingly followed with a run-scoring single off Radinsky to tie the score. But a four-run eighth that was fueled by Kamieniecki's wild pitch and tantrum allowed the White Sox to regain the lead and win for the 12th time in their last 16 games. The unhappy Yankees continued to crumble and now might have two players who will not be meeting for lunch anytime soon. Asked if he had talked to Nokes, Kamieniecki said: "I never talk to him after the game. I never talk to the catchers after the game." Asked if he regretted showing such emotion, Kamieniecki said: "No. Not for me." INSIDE PITCH The Yankees activated DANNY TARTABULL before Friday night's game and he was their designated hitter after having missed the last 16 games with persistent muscular spasms in his lower back. The $25.5 million man has missed 38 of the first 115 games and when Manager BUCK SHOWALTER was asked if the Yankees had made a solid investment in the free agent, he said, "That's not for me to say." Rookie reliever JERRY NIELSEN was optioned to Class AAA Columbus to make room for Tartabull. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 15, 1992, on Page 1001029 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; A Wild Pitch and Even Wilder Squawk.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »