Major League Soccer teams have had impressive success so far early in the group stage of this season’s Concacaf Champions League — all wins and one draw. Wednesday night brought the first match between M.L.S. teams — Toronto and Dallas — at BMO Field in Toronto in a Group C game. Surely something had to give, and it did. Inclement weather in the Toronto area caused about a 30-minute suspension of play in the first half with visiting Dallas holding a 1-0 lead. At halftime, another deluge and persistent lightning and thunder forced officials to abandon the game with 45 minutes to play. Besides fairly heavy rain, bolts of lightning were frequently seen striking the 553-meter (1,815-foot) high CN Tower less than 3 kilometers (1.5 miles) from BMO Field. Dallas was leading, 1-0, on Jackson Goncalves’s goal in the 18th minute, but tournament regulations require unfinished games be replayed completely. The game, in its entirety, was scheduled to be replayed at 10.15 a.m. on Thursday. In the replay Thursday morning Dallas duplicated the score from the abandoned match to earn a 1-0 win over Toronto in the replay at BMO Field. The recently acquired defender Jack Stewart scored in first-half stoppage time to give Dallas the three points. Goal, The New York Times soccer blog, will report on news and features from the world of soccer and around the Web.  Times editors and reporters will follow international tournaments and provide analysis of games. There will be interviews with players, coaches and notable soccer fans, as well as a weekly blog column by Red Bulls forward Jozy Altidore.  Readers can discuss Major League Soccer, foreign leagues and other issues with fellow soccer fans.
	 
			The Goal blog’s regular features, including live match analysis, player ratings from key matches, reader discussion, news and notes and more, can now be found on the soccer section front.Read more… 
			Crystal Palace won promotion to England’s Premier League on Monday. Now the club must retool under Manager Ian Holloway if it is to avoid relegation next season.Read more… 
			When congress opens, FIFA will be dealing with issues from President Sepp Blatter’s possible run for another term to accusations of vote-rigging among executive committee members.Read more… 
			Sacha Kljestan, who just won his second straight Belgian title with Anderlecht, could have a role to play for the United States in its exhibition against Belgium on Wednesday.Read more… 
			Alonso Hernandez, who plays in Mexico for Monterrey but has never represented the United States at any level, will get a chance to earn a place on the Under-20 World Cup team.Read more… Follow Advertisement