Advertisement By CLAIRE SMITH This past Friday may well prove to be a red-letter day in the history of the Mets franchise. No, not because the Mets' bottom-of-the-ninth victory over the Cardinals will register as the day the 1992 Mets turned it around. That's certainly possible but, in looking at all the things that ail the Mets, it's certainly not sane to even think about labeling such a comeback as plausible at this point. No, Friday was made memorable because finally some frank talk took place about this team. Jeff Torborg knocked the what-me-worry facade from the Mets team and declared the 1992 season to be what many on the outside already saw it as. "This," said Torborg, "has been a nightmare." He also threw around some other descriptive adjectives, including "terrible" and "lousy," leaving one only to guess just how much more graphic the language was in a 90-minute meeting the manager and his team had completed before the game. Why is it a nightmare? "That's a very good question," Torborg said Friday. But his face and demeanor said that there aren't yet enough hours in a day to try to answer that question fully. So he didn't. Instead, his answer was: "We just have to keep going." Advertisement Truth is, time is a-wasting, now. For as Yogi Berra, a former Mets manager and an expert on the special pressures facing a team in the spotlight, once said, "It gets late early around here." And even though it's still only June, the Mets may have all but buried themselves. They do not yet know if they have anything close to what it takes to get out of the hole they've already created. They do know they will not go anywhere until they fix the many obvious areas in which they've faltered. Advertisement Here are just a few: Things they shouldn't have worried about but are -- Dwight Gooden, David Cone and Bret Saberhagen never managed three victories through a single turn of the rotation when all were healthy. Now that Saberhagen is down and perhaps out for months with a finger injury, neither Gooden nor Cone has stepped in to dominate. Sid Fernandez, as his seven losses indicate, can never be counted on to stop anything in the way of losing streaks. And the rotation's No. 4 and 5 pitchers, Anthony Young and Pete Schourek, have one victory in a starting role -- and that in the first week of the season. So it is that the Mets have stumbled to a 10-20 record in the post-Saberhagen era. Without the pitchers dominating, the Mets have had to put the onus on their lineup. There, the strength was supposed to be concentrated in the middle. Too often, though, when opposition pitchers get to the middle of that order, they appear to have the Mets right where they want them. For it is where the frustrated and often lost Bobby Bonilla and Howard Johnson are struggling. Bonilla, like it or not, remains the focus of the quandary. He has not produced at Shea, as indicated by the fact that only one of the 11 games in which he has more than one run batted in has come in New York. His failures at home have caused the fans to vilify him, and they turn up the volume as he strands runners and the Mets' losses mount.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Yes, the boos are considered part of the baggage of a $29 million contract. And yes, Bonilla is paid to endure. He obviously is not doing so at home, making it more than a troublesome Shea slump. It's become a debilitating part of his game and a disastrous development for the Mets, who have been trying to win without much contribution from the person who is supposed to be the heart of the heart of the order. Now, Bonilla might have been cut a little slack from the very beginning if Johnson wasn't also misfiring more often than not. One can do wonders with numbers, like noting that Johnson is hitting above .300 in his last 17 games. But at present, his average for the season stands at .228 and the fact remains that not much gets rolling when the Mets' No. 3, 4 and 5 hitters come to the plate. Eddie Murray, the third part of the trio, cannot be blamed as readily as Johnson and Bonilla. He is among the National League leaders in runs batted in. But the struggles of the other two-thirds of the middle of the order have touched him, too. Only 10 times this season have two of the three batters managed to collect more than one hit in a game. Never have all three done so in the same game. More important, the Mets have enjoyed only two games this season in which Murray, Bonilla and Johnson all drove in runs. Not surprisingly, the Mets won both games. Not surprisingly, they had every right to expect they should. They also had every right to hope that the middle three would do their damage in concerted fashion more than twice in 66 games. Things they should have worried about and are -- The Mets knew their underbelly was middle relief. But with the starters in a muddle, that weakness has been exposed to a greater extent. The Mets also knew that they would have to live with the bats of catcher Todd Hundley and of the shortstop, whether it be Kevin Elster or Dick Schofield. What they didn't know is that such averages would become the focus of concern. That wouldn't have happened if the middle of the order had been clicking, if the table-setters at the top had remained healthy. But the Mets' world is far from perfect. So Hundley and Schofield are now viewed as part of the problem and must therefore improve if there is to be an overall solution. Advertisement As Bonilla said on Friday, now everybody has to do it. The problem is, it still could be too late. Bonilla knows better than most that the team the Mets are chasing, the Pittsburgh Pirates, has not been prone to collapsing in recent years. And the former Pirate knows as well that the Mets haven't shown much of a leg kick, either, in their futile efforts to catch division leaders. Now it's up to a new cast to prove that an old mold has been broken. As Berra's saying suggests, now would be a very good time to begin. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 21, 1992, on Page 8008007 of the National edition with the headline: ON BASEBALL; Mets Wake Up to Their Nightmare.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »