Advertisement By PHIL BERGER and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES Donovan (Razor) Ruddock, a highly ranked heavyweight contender from Toronto, knocked out Kimmuel Odum at 2 minutes 58 seconds of the third round of a scheduled 10-round fight at Harrah's Marina Hotel Casino here today. But the result was tainted by a knockdown Ruddock scored after the bell ending the second round, and by the prospect of a protest that was raised by the defeated fighter and his handlers. Odum's chief second, Hedgemon Lewis, said afterward that he and Odum's manager, Bill West, would confer later today and decide whether to lodge a formal protest with Larry Hazzard, the New Jersey boxing commissioner. Odum said that if it were up to him, a protest would be filed. ''I never recovered after the knockdown in the second round,'' Odum said at a post-fight news conference. Exchange of Stares At the end of the disputed round, both fighters engaged in a staredown, then Ruddock responded with an illegal short left hook that knocked Odum onto the seat of his trunks. Advertisement ''I stared him in his eyes,'' Odum said. ''I guess he didn't like the way I looked.'' ''For some reason it bothered me,'' Ruddock said of Odum's facial expression. Advertisement The referee, Rudy Battle, ordered the judges to deduct one point from Ruddock's score. Then, West said, Battle walked to Odum's corner and warned Odum that if he resorted to similar tactics, he would be disqualified. ''I told the referee, 'What about him?' '' West told reporters, referring to Ruddock. West said that Battle did advise him of the point deduction. Battle did not appear at the news conference. Left Uppercut Connects The next knockdown that Ruddock scored, in the third round, was more definitive, and strictly by Hoyle. Ruddock, who had largely ignored his vaunted jab in his haste to finish Odum, slammed a right to the side of Odum's head and followed with a left uppercut that caught Odum flush on the jaw. Odum fell backward onto the canvas, then turned sideways onto his knees as Battle counted. The dazed fighter could not get to his feet by the time Battle's count reached 10.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. With the victory, Ruddock has a record of 24-1-1 with 18 knockouts. Odum, from Gary, Ind., dropped to 13-4 with 12 knockouts.  Ever since Ruddock knocked out Michael Dokes in four rounds last April, he has been regarded as a serious contender for the heavyweight title. His performance today did nothing to diminish that impression, in spite of the late-blow controversy. Apology and an Offer After the bout, Ruddock apologized to Odum for the illegal punch and offered him a rematch, a proposal that Ruddock's promoter, Rod Murad Muhammad, seconded. ''We have dates in September and October, and any state willing to accept Odum as an opponent, we'll fight 'em,'' Muhammad said. ''We'll be happy to oblige him.'' Ruddock weighed 240 pounds today and said this was 10 pounds more than he had carried against Dokes. ''I was experimenting with my weight,'' Ruddock said. ''At 240, I felt really strong. But I wasn't as mobile and loose.'' Advertisement Ruddock said he expected his fighting weight would be closer to 230 pounds in the future. Blocker Wins RENO, Aug. 19 (AP) - Maurice Blocker, taking advantage of a 5-inch height advantage and a 2 1/2-inch margin in reach over Marlon Starling, took away the champion's World Boxing Council welterweight title on a majority decision today. Judges Miguel Donate of Puerto Rico and Lynn Carter of New Jersey scored the fight for Blocker, 115-113. Judge Chuck Giampa of Las Vegas, Nev., scored it even at 114-114. Blocker's only loss in 32 professional bouts was a 1987 decision that left Lloyd Honeyghan holding the W.B.C. title. Starling took the crown from Honeyghan a year later, stopping him in nine rounds. There were no knockdowns. Starling, whose record fell to 45-6-1, said he was tired and wanted to go home to Hartford and take perhaps as long as a year off. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 20, 1990, on Page C00006 of the National edition with the headline: BOXING;   Ruddock Wins; Odum May Protest.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »