Advertisement By AL HARVIN and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES The Jets reached agreement today with Blair Thomas, their No. 1 draft choice, and the running back from Penn State held a brief news conference, then suited up for did not play in the exhibition game against the Giants at Giants Stadium. Thomas, who missed 34 days of training camp, agreed to a series of one-year contracts, which the Jets said covered a period of four years. At a news conference before tonight's game, General Manager Dick Steinberg refused to discuss the terms of the agreement. There had been estimates that the contract would be worth more than a million dollars a year. Thomas's agent, Marvin Demoff, reached earlier in the day in California, would say only that Thomas was not making as much money as the quarterback Jeff George, the No. 1 overall pick in the draft. George, who left school a year early, was taken by the Indianapolis Colts and signed a 6-year, $15 million deal, the biggest ever for a rookie. Advertisement And They'll Probably Have Steak ''I'll put it this way: I think I can afford to take my linemen out to dinner,'' is all Thomas would say about the deal. He said he had been the subject of a little good-natured kidding by his teammates. Advertisement ''A lot of the guys congratulated me,'' he said. ''A couple of them said we had to go out to dinner, and Tony Eason asked me if my Lamborghini was parked outside.'' The 5-foot-10-inch, 195-pound Thomas was the second player taken in this year's draft and the highest Jet selection since Johnny (Lam) Jones was chosen second in 1980. He closed out his college career as Penn State's second-leading career rusher with 3,301 yards, just 97 short of Curt Warner's school record. ''I was kind of hoping that it would happen a little bit sooner, but I'm glad we got him in with a preseason game left,'' said Steinberg. ''I'm confident that he's been working out. Greg Mackrides, our conditioning coach, has a guy down in Philadelphia that knows about that. Thomas is an extremely hard-working player. He doesn't need supervision.''  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Steinberg said the final signing of Thomas would take place over the weekend. ''He just hasn't had time to sign all the papers yet,'' said Steinberg. ''What it is is there are about five copies of each year and addendums to sign, so we had him sign just the first year's contract so if he falls down a flight of stairs or something happens he'll be protected.'' ''We're happy to have Blair in,'' said Coach Bruce Coslet, who has had to work with a depleted running back corps in training camp that was further thinned when Johnny Hector underwent arthroscopic knee surgery. ''Blair's got a lot of catching up to do in a very short period of time.'' Thomas should see limited action in the final exhibition game, on Thursday night against the Buccaneers in Tampa, Fla. Another 32 The Jets were so impressed with Thomas's potential to fit right in that they pulled Emerson Boozer's old No. 32 out of mothballs and gave it to him. He impressed Coslet and the new coaching staff with his attitude and his play in the minicamp in May. The Jets' coaches have been saying all along that Thomas had more of a chance of playing early if he came in than their No. 2 draft pick Reggie Rembert, a wide receiver out of West Virginia who is also unsigned. Besides the 6-4, 200-pound Rembert, the only other Jet missing is Jim Sweeney, the veteran center, who has the same agent as Rembert, Gus Sunseri. Unlike Thomas, Rembert reported a day late for the minicamp because of exams at West Virginia, didn't look impressive, suffered a slight injury and sat out the next two days. He didn't show up the following week for passing camp. Advertisement He was the 28th pick over all and Sunseri was upset last week that Anthony Thompson, the Heisman Trophy runner-up from Indiana, who was the 31st pick, signed a three-year contract with Phoenix for $27,000 more than Sunseri said the Jets had offered Rembert. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 26, 1990, on Page 8008005 of the National edition with the headline: Pro Football;   Thomas and Jets Agree on a Deal.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »