Advertisement  Chicago Cubs slugger Andre Dawson will be a free agent at the end of the season and says he's intrigued by the idea of playing in his hometown for the Florida Marlins. "Miami would be a big possibility," said Dawson, who makes his home there. Cubs General Manager Larry Himes said Dawson would have plenty of options. "Andre will become a free agent, and he'll have 27 other opportunities," Himes said. "I'm sure there will be a lot of American League teams that will be interested." But Dawson, 38 years old, says he doesn't want to go to the American League to become a designated hitter; he would prefer to close his career in the National League. He reportedly asked the Cubs for a two-year extension, but the team told him to shop his services. The Hot and the Cold Edgar Martinez of Seattle, the American League's batting leader at .336, is 14 of 26 in his last six games, a .545 clip. . . . The White Sox's George Bell has knocked in 40 runs in his last 36 games, including 21 with two outs. . . . Oakland infielder Mike Bordick has had a batting average under .300 just four days all season. . . . Brett Butler, coming off a sizzling July in which he hit .442, is hitting .553 in his last 19 games. . . . The Brewers' Robin Yount, who needs 31 hits to reach 3,000, is in a 19-for-103 slump. Hands of Stone Advertisement The Dodgers committed five errors Friday night in their loss to the Padres. It was the third time they have committed more than three errors this year; they lead the majors with 106 in 105 games. Los Angeles shortstop Jose Offerman accounts for 27 of the miscues. Happy Birthday to You  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Cleon Jones, who caught the final out of the 1969 World Series for the Mets, celebrates his 50th birthday tomorrow. . . . Don Larsen, who pitched the only perfect game in World Series history, turns 63 on Friday. From the Mouths of Ballplayers White Sox hurler Charlie Hough, 42, was tickled over the successful debut of knuckleballer Tim Wakefield of the Pittsburgh Pirates on Friday. Hough said: "I worked with the kid last spring." Kid? Wakefield is 26. "That's a kid for a knuckleballer," Hough said. "He'll be pitching for another 20 years." Advertisement Phillies third baseman Dave Hollins, known to throw temper tantrums after bad games, after the Mets' David Cone struck him out three times Tuesday night: "I only tore up one thing," Hollins said. "I'm learning." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 3, 1992, on Page C00010 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL: AROUND THE MAJORS; Dawson Might Take His Bat and Go Home.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »