Advertisement By JOSEPH DURSO Strike the Gold and his new "rabbit," Loach, drew adjoining post positions yesterday for the $500,000 Suburban Handicap at Belmont Park as they prepared to double-team their five rivals in the race and in others leading up to the Breeders' Cup championships. Their immediate goal was for Strike the Gold to win the handicap tomorrow and thereby pass the injured California star, Best Pal, in performance points in the American Championship Racing Series. The horse who earns the most points also earns a $750,000 bonus. But Nick Zito, who trains Strike the Gold and his new accomplice, said the strategy also had a deeper purpose. "The ultimate goal isn't the $750,000 bonus," he said. "The ultimate goal is the Jockey Club Gold Cup and the Breeders' Cup and possibly Horse of the Year. I have to do what's best for my horse and get him there as best I can." An 8-5 Favorite Zito's strategy, which has already prompted Fly So Free to withdraw from the race, got a boost yesterday morning when the draw for post positions placed Loach in the No. 3 starting slot and Strike the Gold in No. 4. The entry was also installed as the 8-5 betting favorite. The main challenge was expected to come from Sultry Song, who won the Hollywood Gold Cup last month and who will line up alongside Strike the Gold in the No. 5 post as the second choice at 2-1. Advertisement The post-position ceremony at Belmont Park was performed with the help of two invited guests: Virginia Kelley, the mother of Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, the Democratic candidate for President, and Jerry Bailey, president of the Jockeys' Guild. 'A Big Fan of Racing' Advertisement Kelley, who said she was "a big fan of racing" back home in Little Rock, Ark., asked Zito if she could go to his barn and see the horses. So the trainer escorted her to the stable area and showed off the star of his string, Strike the Gold. Zito's strategic one-two punch for the Suburban was devised to set up the race for Strike the Gold, who usually lags far behind the field before executing one powerful finishing kick. He won the Kentucky Derby that way last year, but then lost 12 races in a row before regaining his touch and winning the Pimlico Special in May and the Nassau Handicap in June.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But his owners, Bill Condren and Joe Cornacchia, agreed with Zito that the horse's finishing kick wasn't likely to work unless somebody set a fast early pace that wore down the speed horses in the race. So they went shopping for a "rabbit" and recently bought Loach from Allen E. Paulson, the co-owner of Arazi. Role Reversal But the two stablemates held workouts yesterday morning and executed a kind of role reversal. Strike the Gold zipped three furlongs in 35 seconds while Loach went three furlongs in 371/5 seconds. What happened to the rabbit? Zito, sounding untroubled by the reversed roles, replied: "Loach went five-eighths of a mile in 58 flat on Saturday. I didn't want to kill him today. I like the way they went. All he's got to do is hang on as long as he can to insure a fast pace and make it work for a closing horse. Like Strike the Gold." But Zito again acknowledged that several other late-closing horses might reap the rewards of his strategy: Sultry Song, for one. Also, Pleasant Tap, who ran second in the Nassau Handicap and was rated at 5-2 by the track oddsmaker in the early line for tomorrow. FINISH LINE The Suburban Handicap was inserted into the American Championship Racing Series as a late replacement for the New England Classic at Rockingham Park, N.H., and it's a good thing that it was. Rockingham Park has been fighting a virus epidemic in its barns, and nine horses at Belmont Park and five at Saratoga have been quarantined after returning from visits to the New England track. "There is no evidence of virus at Belmont or Saratoga," said JERRY LAWRENCE, executive vice president of New York's tracks. "But we're taking precautions by quarantining any horse who might have been exposed." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 17, 1992, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: HORSE RACING; Zito's 1-2 Punch In Post Spots 3-4.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »