Much is being said and written about the symmetry of baseball’s amazing night, with the rain in Baltimore and the extra innings in St. Petersburg, Fla., conspiring to produce concurrent endings in the American League wild-card race only a few minutes apart in different cities Thursday morning. But there was symmetry, too, in how the games unfolded in baseball time, which is measured, of course, in innings. The Boston Red Sox were one strike away from a 3-2 victory over the Orioles in the bottom of the ninth in Baltimore, while the Tampa Bay Rays were one strike from a 7-6 defeat in the bottom of the ninth to the Yankees in St. Petersburg. And yet …   Pinch-hitter Dan Johnson, who was batting .108 with one home run and who was added to the team two weeks ago after playing for the Rays in April and May, turned on a 2-2 pitch from Yankees reliever Cory Wade and lined it inside the right-field foul pole to tie the score. That extended the game, allowing Evan Longoria to win it in the bottom of the 12th, 8-7, with a home run just inside the left-field foul pole. In Baltimore, Red Sox closer Jonathan Papelbon had two outs and nobody on when he faced the Orioles’ Chris Davis. Davis, the No. 8 hitter, who entered the game batting .265, doubled on the first pitch he saw, extending the inning. Nolan Reimod, the No. 9 hitter, then also doubled, on a 2-2 pitch, tying the score, and Robert Andino won it, 4-3, with a line drive to left off the glove of Carl Crawford. Two outs, two strikes, bottom of the ninth in two cities. Two hitters with meager credentials starting the process of turning it around for their teams. What do you think of baseball’s amazing night, which also included Atlanta’s startling downfall after it couldn’t protect a one-run lead in the ninth inning either? The New York Times reporters Tyler Kepner, Ben Shpigel, Jack Curry and Joe Lapointe, along with their Times colleagues, will bring baseball fans inside the run up to the 2008 baseball season with access, analysis and the latest updates from spring training. Tyler Kepner has covered the Yankees for The New York Times since 2002.  He joined The Times in 2000 as the Mets beat writer. A native of Philadelphia and a graduate of Vanderbilt University, Kepner has also covered the Angels for the Riverside Press-Enterprise in California and the Mariners for the Seattle Post-Intelligencer. He lives in Connecticut with his wife and their four children. Ben Shpigel has covered the Mets for The Times since 2005. Before then, he was a staff writer for the Dallas Morning News for two years. He also worked at The News Journal in Wilmington, Del., and for the Atlanta Journal-Constitution.  Shpigel received a bachelor's degree in English and journalism from Emory University and a master's degree in journalism from Columbia University. He and his wife, Rebecca, live in Manhattan. Jack Curry has covered baseball for the The New
York Times for 18 seasons.  Since 1998, he has served as the newspaper's national baseball writer.  Before that, Curry covered the Yankees from 1991-1997.  He was also the beat writer for the New Jersey Nets' 1990-1991 season and covered college basketball, college football and wrote for the Metro section. Born in Jersey City, N.J., Curry graduated from Fordham University. He and his wife, Pamela, live in New Jersey. 
			This blog’s regular features, including live game analysis, news and notes from Tyler Kepner, David Waldstein and others, can now be found on the baseball section of our website.Read more… 
			The free-agent second baseman Robinson Cano is reportedly still seeking a 10-year deal for $310 million, figures the Yankees are said to be unwilling to meet. Read more… 
			When asked what he has done thus far in the off-season, Mets General Manager Sandy Alderson responded with a joke. Read more… 
			The Mets maybe should, but most assuredly won’t, defy all expectations and make a legitimate bid to lure Robinson Cano away from the Yankees.Read more… 
			The Yankees are waiting to hear whether Curtis Granderson will accept their qualifying offer, and set their outfield for 2014, or test the market and send the Yankees chasing another free agent. Read more… Follow Advertisement