Advertisement By MURRAY CHASS For anyone who missed the first 17 seasons, this has been the ''best,'' or the top hits, of George Steinbrenner. In recent weeks, the telltale signs have been there. They are easy to spot because they have appeared time and time again during Steinbrenner's reign as the Yankees' general partner. It is a reign that will end, barring aid from a judge in Cleveland, tomorrow. According to one of his partners, Steinbrenner has blamed his lawyers for his plight. The lawyers, he has said, did not satisfactorily explain the agreement in which he consented to resign from his management of the Yankees. He has said, the partner related, that he had the ''wrong kind'' of lawyers. ''His lawyers screaming at the commissioner is nothing compared to his screaming at the lawyers,'' said a lawyer involved in the case. Advertisement Sixteen years ago, Steinbrenner blamed his lawyer for his Watergate problems - his illegal campaign contributions. He was suspended that time for two years, later reduced to 15 months for good behavior. Advertisement To many observers, there has been no good behavior here; only bizarre behavior. The question still most often asked: Why did Steinbrenner opt for a more severe penalty than the two-year suspension Commissioner Fay Vincent wanted to levy? At one point during the meeting last Wednesday of the Yankee partners, one of them said that Steinbrenner pounded the table with his fist and burst out with a phrase containing an expletive that indicated he felt he had messed up by choosing the alternative disciplinary action. ''I think,'' said a major league official, ''this must have been the way Winfield got his original deal.'' He referred to the contract Dave Winfield signed with the Yankees as a free agent Dec. 15, 1980. By reading a newspaper account of the contract Dec. 16, Steinbrenner discovered how costly the deal would be and demanded a revision in the structure of the contract. Suspicious Partners Steinbrenner, his lawyers and his aides have insisted that the owner had nothing to do with the lawsuit filed by two of his partners in Cleveland last week. Nor supposedly did he have anything to do with his lawyers' call the next day for an investigation by major league club owners into the commissioner's behavior in his treatment of Steinbrenner. Steinbrenner, during his turbulent ownership, has orchestrated too many maneuvers not to prompt suspicion that this is another such instance. Some of his partners certainly are suspicious. ''It's a setup,'' said one, who insisted on anonymity, when asked about the lawsuit. He and others scoffed at the Steinbrenner letter included with the lawsuit, in which the owner tells one of the suing partners, Dan McCarthy, he is opposed to any suit. Advertisement The thinking goes like this: Steinbrenner, under terms of his agreement with Vincent, can't sue the commissioner. Two of his partners sue instead, and his lawyers quickly jump on the allegations in the complaint to call for an investigation. Perhaps this scenario was what Stephen Kaufman, one of the lawyers, had in mind when he made a remark during the partners' questioning of Steinbrenner about why he was doing certain things. According to a partner at the meeting, Kaufman said, ''This is our game plan; don't worry about it.''  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Vincent has been the primary target of the lawyers, but when asked about that, the commissioner said: ''I should think that these lawyers would be more concerned about their performance in this circumstance than I should be about mine.'' Broadway Bombers? As a significant Broadway producer, Robert Nederlander, who is expected to win approval as Steinbrenner's successor as general partner, should know a flop when he sees one. The 1990 Yankees are a flop. Nederlander is not expected to lead them back to hit status, at least not through his knowledge of what happens on the field. A fellow partner tells of the time in 1983 or 1984 that Steinbrenner, at a meeting, was ticking off the names of the Yankees' better hitters. When he finished, Nederlander said, ''What about Reggie?'' ''Reggie who?'' Steinbrenner asked. ''Reggie Jackson,'' Nederlander replied.  ''He hasn't been here since 1981,'' Steinbrenner told him. ''Oh,'' Nederlander said. ''I was wondering why I hadn't seen him around.'' Harsh Demeanor Steinbrenner has been generous financially with many people, especially youngsters wanting to go to college, and he has been commended for that genorosity. But he was notorious among his employees for what they considered his harsh treatment of them (Al Rosen once cut short a Caribbean vacation because Steinbrenner was harassing him so much by phone). Several years ago, Doug Melvin, the Yankees' scouting director, decided he could no longer work for Steinbrenner. He submitted his resignation and opted for unemployment. Steinbrenner was convinced that Melvin, a Canadian native, was leaving to take a job with the Expos or the Blue Jays, so he instructed two aides to call those teams and warn them against hiring him. Melvin never had such intentions, and today, at the age of 38, he is Baltimore's assistant general manager and somebody's future general manager. Mike Barnett, a few years ago, didn't even have a year-round job with the Yankees. He served as batting practice catcher and took videotapes of the team's hitters and pitchers during games. One summer the Cincinnati Reds wanted to interview him for their vacant traveling secretary job. It was Barnett's opportunity to elevate himself into a significant baseball job. Steinbrenner, however, refused to grant the Reds permission to talk to him, and they hired someone else. Barnett subsequently left for a job as an assistant college baseball coach. Advertisement A Pitcher Grows in St. Louis One of the young pitchers the Yankees couldn't wait for is blossoming in St. Louis. Bob Tewksbury pitched successive shutouts for the Cardinals in the past week, stopping Pittsburgh on six hits and Houston on one hit - a Franklin Stubbs double that marred his otherwise perfect 80-pitch, 69-strike game Friday night. Tewksbury, a 29-year-old right-hander, has an 8-3 record and a 2.69 earned run average in only two months with St. Louis. He has not walked anyone in his last three games and has walked a total of 12 batters in 97 innings. ''A lot of people in New York, like Mark Connor and Sammy Ellis, had faith in me,'' Tewksbury said after the one-hitter, recalling a couple of his pitching coaches. ''But the situation wasn't one where they gave young guys a chance.'' Tewksbury, who had a 9-5 record in 20 starts for the Yankees in 1986, was sent to the Chicago Cubs in 1987 in the trade for Steve Trout, whose control for the Yankees was as bad as Tewksbury's was good. Final Decrial Before Steinbrenner heads off into his personal purgatory, will he, in a last, just-for-old-times-sake, here's-something-to-remember-me-by act, dismiss his general managers, his manager, his pitching coach, his hitting coach and his third-base coach? He has until midnight tomorrow. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 19, 1990, on Page 8008003 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL: NOTEBOOK;   The Best of Steinbrenner Combines Standard Golden Oldies.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »