Advertisement By MICHAEL JANOFSKY Despite his departure from major league baseball after more than 17 1/2 years as principal owner of the Yankees, George Steinbrenner does not intend to resign as a vice president of the United States Olympic Committee, his spokesman said yesterday. His intention could put the U.S.O.C. executive committee in the uncomfortable position of recommending that he resign, after a meeting tomorrow in Colorado Springs. As Steinbrenner's problems in baseball mounted in recent weeks, senior members of the Olympic committee expressed concern that he could no longer serve the organization effectively. Privately, many of them said they hoped he would step down, saving the U.S.O.C. the burden of removing an officer ''for cause,'' as the U.S.O.C. constitution and bylaws permit. And in recent days, their hope that he would step down voluntarily has grown. But believing his responsibilities would not be adversely affected by his problems with baseball, even in the face of imminent action by the U.S.O.C. excutive committee, Steinbrenner ''intends to stay, hopes to stay in his present position with the Olympic committee,'' the spokesman, Howard Rubenstein, said after raising the issue with Steinbrenner earlier in the day. ''That's the reason he signed the paper he signed with baseball,'' Rubenstein added, referring to the July 30 agreement between Steinbrenner and Fay Vincent, the commissioner of baseball, that went into effect yesterday. ''It eliminated the words 'suspended' and 'probation,' which he believed would go far in helping him keep his role with the Olympic committee. He did not want to put that position in jeopardy.'' Advertisement Burden on Committee By declaring his intention to remain an officer, an unpaid position he has held since February of last year, Steinbrenner has shifted the burden of responsibility to the U.S.O.C., forcing the organization to decide if he has become or could become a liability to the organization as a result of his difficulties in baseball. If the executive committee, which has 23 members, determines that his outside problems could undermine his effectiveness or bring embarrassment to the Olympic committee, the members could adopt a recommendation that he resign. Advertisement That would be the extreme action, enforceable only with the approval of the 121-member board of directors, which next meets in October.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The executive committee could adopt a softer line, recommending, for example, that Steinbrenner step aside temporarily until the full effect of events - upon Steinbrenner and the U.S.O.C. - could be more accurately measured. Or, after a full airing, the committee could recommend the status quo. In any event, it is a discussion many Olympic officials had hoped to avoid this week, with Juan Antonio Samaranch, the president of the International Olympic Committee, visiting Colorado Springs, along with other international Olympic officials, and an otherwise full agenda over two days. A Positive Influence Since the agreement with baseball, which effectively removed Steinbrenner from his leadership role with the Yankees, members of the executive committee have debated among themselves in separate conversations what action might be most appropriate. Many have acknowledged that the issue has been a struggle for them because Steinbrenner, in their view, has been a positive influence on the organization. In his short tenure with the Olympic committee, Steinbrenner has helped the U.S.O.C. in a variety of ways, including as chairman of a panel that restructured the organization so it would operate more efficiently. He has also been a key figure in raising money for athletes through new corporate sponsorships and television contracts. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 21, 1990, on Page D00026 of the National edition with the headline: Steinbrenner Steadfast In U.S. Olympic Role.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »