Membership in the rarified fraternity that is the English Premier League has its privileges. Just ask Charles Pierre N’Zogbia of Aston Villa. While the league was dark this past week for international matches, N’Zogbia, a French midfielder, made a quick jump to New York for some rest and relaxation, which included a bit of shopping, visiting with friends and a round trip to the Hamptons … by helicopter. Like so many European soccer players, N’Zogbia finds anonymous refuge in the United States, having recently purchased a home in South Florida from a real-estate agent who is the great-great-grandniece of the famed psychoanalyst Sigmund Freud. He has also dipped his toes into the market for a lifestyle fashion brand built around a cheeky little cartoon dog named Dougie. N’Zogbia returned to England on Sunday night to prepare for Saturday’s league match at Everton. Villa has gotten off to a good start in the Premier League under its new Scottish coach, Alex McLeish, who at one time tried to acquire N’Zogbia when he was the manager at Birmingham City.  As an 18-year-old, N’Zogbia made the leap across the English Channel (speaking not a word of the language) from Le Havre to join Newcastle United, a move that was not without controversy because his French club claimed he had been signed to an educational contract and was not free to leave. The club filed a complaint with FIFA, which subsequently ruled that Newcastle had not broken any rules. Newcastle paid a $400,000 fee as compensation for Le Havre’s expense in developing the player. N’Zogbia played 118 games for Newcastle before moving to Wigan Athletic in 2009.  Before the start of this season, N’Zogbia (@CharlesNZO on Twitter) completed a $15 million transfer from Wigan (which avoided relegation last season largely because of N’Zobgia’s inspired play late in the year) to Villa — after a brief flirtation with Liverpool and some clubs in Italy — and signed a lucrative five-year contract with the Midlands club. MacLeish views N’Zogbia, who has been given the No. 10 jersey, as a replacement for Stewart Downing, who was sold to Liverpool for a $32 million fee. Villa also made a tidy sum from the sale of Ashley Young to Manchester United for an additional $32 million. N’Zogbia spoke with Jack Bell of The Times.  Is this your first time in New York? No, no. Been here many times. And you just bought a house in Miami. Yes. A place to kick back and relax when I can. And you just got back from the Hamptons by helicopter? How long does it take? About half an hour. I came because people say there are not many people in New York because of the holiday, it’s a good time. The end of summer. It’s funny you mention it because when I was at Newcastle Michael Owen used to commute to training in a helicopter. He was late one day and it landed on the training pitch! It was incredible. You’re here because of the international break. Are you disappointed Laurent Blanc didn’t pick you for the France team this time? [N’Zogbia has played two games for France’s senior national team, and scored one goal.] I think it’s like when you play for your country there are a lot of opportunities and a lot of players. I’ve played twice and I like it, but you know, it’s up to the manager. For me, football is football, you have to take your chance when you can. For me, it is not a problem. I came to New York, just me for me. I don’t get upset with something like this. For me, if it comes it comes, and makes me happy. Now I just say I’m doing what I want to do, and that’s it. When did you play most recently for France? In June. One qualifier and two friendly games. The last game I played 70-75 minutes. It was comfortable. He was happy with me. You know when you finish the game, he said well done and you worked hard. This time, I think it was kind of best to select other players to see how they are working. I enjoyed my games. For me, no regrets and I did the best I can and that’s it.  Do you think he’s changed the team quite a bit after the World Cup. With all that went on with the France players in South Africa, what were you thinking at the time? Me, I’m thinking right now to play for France, since they won the World Cup they put the level really high for the other players to come. They were winning Cups. It’s not easy, because the old generation was really good and now the new generation is young players. Think the experience, winning trophies is what they don’t know [the young players]. Were the expectations too high in South Africa last year? Yeah. I think is too high. When you say you play for France, everyone is like yeah, France is a big [soccer] country and, the old generation was really good and it takes time to build the team to a top level and that’s what I think Blanc is trying to do. I think with [Raymond] Domenech the mentality was not really good and the players were fighting and stuff. Laurent Blanc — what he did brought good feelings, everyone to join, everybody wants to play and be happy. I think the expectations of the French people and fans were too high. But, you know, that’s fans. If you win something, they want more. When you go to France they are never happy. If you win something you have to win something else. Nothing ever stops. You said you arrived in New York on Thursday [Sept. 1]. When you come to New York what types of things do you do? Go out. We go to clubs, nice restaurants, shopping. I just came for shopping and to relax a bit. Gucci, it’s less expensive. I’m from England and when you bring [pound] sterling it is cheaper to shop here. Are you a mate of Thierry Henry? Not really. I heard he bought a place around here, though [in the Soho section of Manhattan]. And I saw he is scoring a lot of goals.  Going to Aston Villa, we know that Alex McLeish was trying to get you when he was with Birmingham. What went on then? It didn’t happen because at the time I was still at Wigan. Birmingham tried to buy me; it just didn’t work out with the terms of the contract. I had two years left in Wigan, they wanted to give me at Birmingham a four-year contract with the same wages. There is no point to come if you can’t reach better personal terms, if you want to buy me and don’t want to raise me. I decided I was just going to stay at Wigan and work hard. A better offer will come. I’m not asking for that much. But I know my value and the value I’m working for. If they don’t agree with what I want, there’s no point. How difficult was it for you, as a young French player, to go to England, to Newcastle? I had just turned 18 when I came to England. I think it was a bit like kind of a test in life. Sometimes you go through life and have some doors and you don’t know where you’re going to end up. Yes, it was kind of a test. But me I’m not scared of going anywhere. I like visiting countries. I like doing other things. My dream as a kid was to travel the world and see other things, different cities. Yeah, it was a challenge. It was difficult, understanding the accent, very tough accent. The culture, the country, you have to know people and how they work. Did you speak English? No. Did they send you to school?  Yeah, it was like when I was training it was O.K. After training it was a lesson everyday. A teacher would come to my house to teach me the language and about the life in England. You grew up in France, but where is your family from originally? My family is from Congo, Zaire. Any thought of playing there for the national team? They wanted to take me three years ago, but I was like, you know, I was young. I had never been to Zaire. I know my mom goes back to see family. I’ve never been there. I wasn’t ready. For me, I was born in France, I want to play for France. I’m happy with football maybe I have a future with the French squad. [In fact, research after the interview revealed that N’Zogbia, according to news media reports, had once flirted, early in 2010, with obtaining British citizenship, after having played for France’s under-21 national team. But then the call came from the senior national team.] When you left Newcastle for Wigan, was Roberto Martinez the coach? No. After my four years in Newcastle the coach at Wigan was Steve Bruce, who is now the manager of Sunderland. I think he wanted me to come because I was going through a really tough time my last year in Newcastle. He wanted me to clear my head and play the football. We hear so much about Martinez and what a terrific manager he is. He brings me into … he’s a really good manager, a strong person and really good man. It’s really a good feeling when you go through a tough time. He can talk to you, he can understand how players are working because he knows everyone is different. Honesty, he’s a really truth man. He’s not going to lie to you. You know what you can achieve, he tells you exactly what you need to do to get to the top of football. What was it about him that seemed to bring out the best in you? It was just the way he wanted to see the football. Sometimes managers just want long balls. Not him. He said we have some good players. Let’s work on it, keep players on the ball. Anyone who does not want to play this way, I don’t want to take them. It was clear. He wanted to see football, see people take chances, he wanted players to show what they can do on the ball. That’s why he’s good. I think we played good football, but even when we lose, no matter what, he wanted people to show their skill. His mentality was to stick to what he believes. Last year what we were missing were some strong defenders. Were you nervous about being relegated? No, not nervous. We were still going to fight. We stayed up in the last game. You play Wigan on Oct. 1. Is it just another game? Yes, it is just another game. For me, I have been in England six, seven years. It’s a normal game. For me playing at the stadium in Wigan, it’s like in my home. I can’t wait. When I was there I was working hard for the team, I never let them down. I’m a player that didn’t just come for the money. It was about enjoying my football two, three years.  So you go to Villa and they sell Stewart Downing and Ashley Young, two very good players. You’ve got some big shoes to fill. Yes, big shoes. Now they bring new players. When you start the league you’re not sure if people want to stay or leave because of the transfer window. Everyone wants to train, but players don’t know where they’re going to be in two, three weeks. Now it’s settled. Our heads are clear. Villa for me is a big club, bigger players, massive support. We can fight and challenge for places in Europe, and it could be good for this club. Do you know the American defender? [Eric] Lichaj? Yeah, he’s good. Think he’s young and he’s really good. I think he’s a really good young player. He’s working hard. He plays right defender right now. And how do you feel about playing for an American owner [Randy Lerner]? The owner? No. In England you never meet the owner. Maybe you see him in the box when you play at home. You stick with the staff. All you do is you just play for your club; who’s going to buy the team is not your problem. We’re just working no matter if the owner is from Singapore or America. What is your biggest thrill as a player, your biggest goal? My goal was to just be a professional football player. Just enjoy my football. Now with a big contract, how has it changed your life? It hasn’t changed my life. It must have changed your life, you’re here and you take a helicopter to the Hamptons. [A big laugh] I used to do it before, too. After two, three years in the Premier League you save your money to enjoy your life. Just a bigger challenge. It made me stronger. I know you bought a house in Miami and I guess you’re like a lot of footballers who like to come to the U.S. because no one knows them here. Is true, you know when you’re from Europe you’ve been traveling in England, Paris, Spain. Sometimes you get a bit bored of Europe. Me, I wanted to come to New York, Miami, to see how it is. And I loved it. Do you see yourself at a bigger club in three or four years? I would like to play in Europe and will give the club three or four years to do something. For me, my move was to sign with Villa, because it’s a really big change. They are really professionals, the club has all the amenities. Three years minimum. To go into Europe and be on the next World Cup team for France. That’s what I want. Technically they call you a wing, but you seem to drift into the middle of the field. Is that part of your style?
 When I start football, I was a No. 10, my first position was to be behind the striker. My position was to play in the middle. That’s where I’m comfortable because I know exactly where are my players. But I can play left, right and in the middle. Now I have been playing on the left and on the right. If I had my choice, depending on the formation, I would play on the right. I can go past people, can get in and have a shot. Like a lot of clubs now they know you are left-footed they put you on the right because they know you can cut in for a shot. Do you use Facebook? Twitter? I do Twitter. And it is me. I had 30,000 followers in one month. It’s me. When I tweet it’s really me. It’s good in Twitter. I reply to messages sometimes in England three days before the game, good to let them know the news. The fans just want some time to talk to players. With Twitter they can talk to us and they know it’s us. If you think a question is important you can answer and they will know how you are. Do you prefer that than talking to reporters? Yeah, you can talk to a journalist, they ask something and the next morning it is something else in the newspaper. It is really good to let people know what you think. Sometimes you have a bad game, you also get support. Sometimes I’m just sitting have a lunch with friends, I just go on Twitter and see what’s happening. Facebook is different, you do a page, pictures, is more private. If someone wants to join your Facebook you have to accept them. Twitter, they just follow you. When you answer everyone knows. It’s good. In England, many people were asking me, where are you going to be next season? On Twitter, you have to be careful what you say because it can be in the press. Some fans said come back to Newcastle. At the moment I was still a Wigan player. See what happens. When I signed just got a picture from the signing and sent it out and said, this is it. They know it’s me. Been there two, three months. It’s good. I like it. Goal, The New York Times soccer blog, will report on news and features from the world of soccer and around the Web.  Times editors and reporters will follow international tournaments and provide analysis of games. There will be interviews with players, coaches and notable soccer fans, as well as a weekly blog column by Red Bulls forward Jozy Altidore.  Readers can discuss Major League Soccer, foreign leagues and other issues with fellow soccer fans.
	 
			The Goal blog’s regular features, including live match analysis, player ratings from key matches, reader discussion, news and notes and more, can now be found on the soccer section front.Read more… 
			Crystal Palace won promotion to England’s Premier League on Monday. Now the club must retool under Manager Ian Holloway if it is to avoid relegation next season.Read more… 
			When congress opens, FIFA will be dealing with issues from President Sepp Blatter’s possible run for another term to accusations of vote-rigging among executive committee members.Read more… 
			Sacha Kljestan, who just won his second straight Belgian title with Anderlecht, could have a role to play for the United States in its exhibition against Belgium on Wednesday.Read more… 
			Alonso Hernandez, who plays in Mexico for Monterrey but has never represented the United States at any level, will get a chance to earn a place on the Under-20 World Cup team.Read more… Follow Advertisement