Advertisement By MICHAEL MARTINEZ The moment that made the night came in the sixth inning, when Dallas Green, the Yankee manager, was ejected from the game in one swift motion by Umpire Dale Scott. Green stalked across the infield grass, kicked up a clump of mud when he reached the Yankee dugout, then threw his cap against the dugout wall. Would you believe it? The Yankees won the game. Green's tirade came after an apparent home run to left by Steve Balboni was ruled foul by Scott, the third-base umpire. But the Yanks did not need it, beating the Texas Rangers, 5-3, last night at the Stadium and pushing their record to 33-33 - the first time since May 13, when they were 17-17, that they have been at .500 this season. It also gave them three victories in a row, their longest winning streak in six weeks. ''It's a nice number for us,'' Don Mattingly said of being at .500, ''but I don't think we've ever been concerned with it. We're more concerned with playing well and putting our game together.'' Video Replay Convinces Green Dave Eiland, who until yesterday was pitching in the minors, gave the Yankees seven superb innings for his first big league victory as the two teams played through a momentary rain shower. He gave up three runs, worked himself through trouble in the sixth, then watched as Dave Righetti pitched the ninth for his 11th save. Advertisement Green savored the victory in the clubhouse, although he conceded later, after watching a replay, that Scott had made the correct call on Balboni's fly ball. Advertisement ''I didn't berate the umpire,'' Green said. ''All I did was see it fair.'' Asked about his scene in front of the dugout, reminiscent of the days of Billy Martin, he said, ''That's usually for effect.'' Eiland, who pitched briefly for the Yankees last season, said: ''I knew I'd get a chance someday, but I wasn't down there worrying about it. I knew my chance would come, and hopefully, this is my time.'' Season's 10th Starter Eiland, who became the 10th pitcher to start a game for the Yankees when he was called up late Friday night, brought with him exceptional credentials from Columbus. He lost his last start on June 10 but had won six successive starts before that, pitching at least eight innings in four of them.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Eiland hurt himself with walks that became runs in the second and third, and he was behind until the fifth, when Balboni hit a two-run homer off Mike Jeffcoat to give the Yanks their first lead, 3-2. The Yankees had broken through against Jeffcoat in the fourth after leaving five runners on base in the first three innings. They finally put up a run after Wayne Tolleson hit a one-out single and was forced at second by Alvaro Espinoza, and Roberto Kelly followed by hitting a pitch into the right-field corner. Ruben Sierra retrieved the ball but too late to prevent Espinoza from scoring. Faces a Threat in the 6th One inning later, Jeffcoat gave up a leadoff single to Steve Sax before Balboni hit a 1-and-2 pitch into the area in front of the Yankee bullpen. The home run was Balboni's seventh but his first at the Stadium, where he has been roundly booed this season, since April 14. Five of his seven homers, and 21 of his 24 runs batted in, have been off left-handers. Eiland allowed the tying run in the sixth on a single by Geno Petralli, but struck out Steve Buechele with the bases loaded to end the inning. Then Sax gave him another lead, this time making it 5-3, when he lifted a single off Cecilio Guante that sailed over the glove of the Texas first baseman, Rafael Palmeiro, to drive home Espinoza and Rickey Henderson. Sax stole second, and after Guante intentionally walked Mattingly, Balboni hit the high fly ball that was called foul and brought Green charging from the dugout. He argued several minutes with Scott before being thrown out. Balboni then fouled out behind the plate.   SANDERS ARRIVES IN RICHMOND The elusive Deion Sanders, who was expected to report to the Columbus Clippers earlier in the week, finally appeared yesterday in Richmond, where the Yankees' Class AAA affiliate was playing. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 18, 1989, on Page 8008003 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Rookie Shines as Yanks Top Texas.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »