Tailgating life is easier when your game starts in mid-afternoon or later. But an early game shouldn’t be an impediment. That said, while it’s true that it’s always noon somewhere, beer might not be right for everyone’s palate in the morning. Justin Haynie, an Atlanta Falcons fan and owner of the Diesel Filling Station in Atlanta, helps get the day started with the Diesel Bloody Mary. “We like to think of it as breakfast in a glass,” Haynie wrote. “We normally set up shop around 7 a.m. at the stadium, even for Sunday night games. I want to make sure everyone starts the day off the right way and can last all day and night. With that in mind, having a little heat to your Bloody Mary is a good thing. “Just remember, as long as you have the tickets and a Bloody Mary, your day is going to be great.” Other recipes in the tailgate series can be found here. It’s not too late to contribute a dish. Use this form to send us your recipes, and please include a picture of your fare and perhaps an interesting back story. Anyone have some breakfast ideas to go with those Bloody Marys? Makes 16-ounce cocktail 
The Quad is a blog about the fierce competition and engrossing culture of college sports. From the Bowl Championship Series to March Madness, to news and features about one's alma mater or local collegiate team, The New York Times will take readers inside the world of collegiate athletics with interviews, insights and analysis from the tailgates to the locker room. 
			The Quad blog’s content moves to the college football and college basketball pages on nytimes.com. Read more… 
			Joe Mihalich, who has spent the past 15 seasons at Niagara, will replace the fired Mo Cassara. Read more… 
			There is a lot wrong with college basketball, but the N.C.A.A. still provides a lot of great opportunities for young athletes, as was evident again during this year’s tournament.Read more… 
			An analysis of the N.C.A.A. tournament championship game between Louisville and Michigan, based on concepts of sport psychology like big-game experience, leadership behind the bench, leadership on the court, error control and consistency.Read more… 
			Tim Pernetti, the former Rutgers athletic director, discussed the tension between running an athletic business inside an educational institution at a New York University Sports & Society program in November, saying the “human capital” in the department is what can be controlled.Read more… Follow Advertisement