Advertisement  AP Bobby Thigpen tied a major league record with his 46th save and Scott Fletcher and Ozzie Guillen each had three runs batted in today, leading the Chicago White Sox past the California Angels, 9-5. The victory moved the White Sox to within five and a half games of Oakland in the American League's West Division. The Athletics lost to Texas, 3-2. The winner, Melido Perez (12-12), gave up seven hits and two runs in seven innings. Ken Patterson relieved Scott Radinsky in the Angels' three-run eighth and Thigpen came on with one out in the ninth for his 46th save in 52 opportunities. Thigpen finished to equal Dave Righetti's record set in 1986 for the Yankees. Thigpen's save total is more than all but one team. Oakland, led by Dennis Eckersley with 40, has 53. The major league record for saves by one team is 64, set by Oakland in 1988. The White Sox have 54 saves this season. Advertisement The game ended when Dave Winfield, in the lineup as a pinch-hitter, lined into a double play with the bases loaded. Advertisement Trailing by 1-0 on Lee Stevens's run-scoring double in the first inning, the White Sox scored three runs in the second off the rookie Joe Grahe (1-2) on Fletcher's two-run double and Guillen's run-scoring double. Chicago made the score 4-1 in the third, loading the bases with none out on singles by Lance Johnson and Ivan Calderon and a walk to Dan Pasqua before settling for one run on a double-play grounder by Carlton Fisk. Consecutive doubles by Robin Ventura and Fletcher to start the fourth inning made the score 5-1 and knocked out Grahe. Guillen laid down a sacrifice off the left-hander Cliff Young to send Fletcher to third, and Phil Bradley singled. Fisk led off the fifth with his 14th homer and Guillen added a two-run double. The Angels scored in the sixth on Dick Schofield's run-scoring triple.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Rangers 3, Athletics 2 OAKLAND, Calif. (AP) - Bobby Witt survived 10 walks and four bases-loaded jams to win his 11th ssuccessive game as Texas ended a losing streak at four games. Witt (14-8) walked seven in the first five innings, but Oakland left 10 runners on base in that span as Witt struck out seven to work out of three jams. Witt finished with 10 strikeouts, and his 10 walks tied a team record set last Monday by Charlie Hough. The major league record for most walks in a nine-inning game is 16 by Bill George of the New York Giants in 1887 and Bruno Haas of the Philadelphia A's in 1915. The Athletics came through in their fourth bases-loaded, two-out situation when Jamie Quirk blooped a two-run single to center in the seventh. But Witt got Willie Randolph on a sharp grounder to short to end the seventh, then left after 136 pitches for Brad Arnsberg. Kenny Rogers gave up no hits in one and two-thirds innings to earn his 13th save. Advertisement Oakland's starter, Curt Young (7-5), pitched only two and one-third innings and was hurt by his own wildness, walking a season-high six as the Rangers were up by 3-0 in the third inning. The teams combined for 19 walks, 11 by the Rangers. Gary Pettis led off the game. Walks to Julio Franco and Pete Incaviglia loaded the bases with two outs, and Rafael Palmeiro singled to give the Rangers a 2-0 lead. Russ Kunkel and Franco were issued consecutive walks to start the third. Ruben Sierra's grounder forced Franco at second and moved Kunkel to third. Incaviglia then grounded back to Young, who forced Kunkel into a rundown between third and home. But the first baseman Mark McGwire dropped a throw at the plate at the end of the rundown for an error, allowing Kunkel to score an unearned run and put Texas ahead, 3-0. Once Young left, the reliever Todd Burns worked six and two-thirds innings of two-hit, scoreless relief. Friday Night Blue Jays 12, Indians 8 TORONTO (AP) - The Blue Jays, shut out for three games in a row by first-place Boston last weekend, collected 15 hits and beat the slumping Cleveland Indians. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 2, 1990, on Page 8008003 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL: AMERICAN LEAGUE;   Thigpen's 46th Save Ties Record.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »