Advertisement By ANDREW DASAPRIL 11, 2014
 The two favorites to win the UEFA Champions League, Bayern Munich and Real Madrid, were matched against one another in the semifinals in a draw held Friday in Nyon, Switzerland. Chelsea and Atletico Madrid will square off in the other semifinal. They appeared to be the big winners in Friday’s draw, in that both avoided Bayern, the defending champion, and Real Madrid, which is seeking its record 10th title in the competition. Real Madrid will host Bayern in the first leg of their semifinal on April 23, then travel to the German champion on April 29. Atletico will host Chelsea in their first leg April 22, with the return leg in London on April 30. While Bayern-Real will be viewed by many as a final-worthy semifinal, the other side of the draw is just as intriguing. The most prominent story lines include the return of Chelsea Manager Jose Mourinho to Madrid, where he coached Real Madrid from 2010-13, and a budding controversy over Atletico’s young Belgian goalkeeper, Thibaut Courtois. Advertisement Courtois is technically under contract to Chelsea but has played on loan at Atletico since 2011. A clause in his loan agreement requires Atletico to pay Chelsea a sizable fee if they field him in a game against the Blues, a common form of competitive protection in such deals. That clause had led to speculation that the price of playing Courtois, reportedly 3 million euros (almost $4.2 million) per game, would force Atletico to bench him for the semifinals. But UEFA released a statement on Friday reiterating its rules that any effort by one club to influence the player selection of an opponent was strictly forbidden, and that any private contract between clubs attempting to do so “is null, void and unenforceable so far as UEFA is concerned.” Advertisement Friday’s draw also set the matchups for the second-tier Europa League: Sevilla versus Valencia in an all-Spanish semifinal, and Portugal’s Benfica against the Italian league leader Juventus. Those games will be played April 24 and May 1. A version of this article appears in print on April 12, 2014, on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: Favorites to Square Off.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »