Advertisement 
Sports of The Times  By                     
 JULIET MACUR
 
APRIL 25, 2014
 Long before Julius Randle was a 6-foot-9, 250-pound wall of muscle and a certain N.B.A. lottery pick, he was a toddler who slept with a basketball clutched to his chest. His mother, Carolyn Kyles, a former college player, introduced him to basketball soon after he started walking. He grew into the game. Literally. By 11, Randle was 6 feet tall, and his name was being whispered by college recruiters. By high school, he was a daunting force on the court, with the wingspan of an F-14. So it’s no wonder Randle had been branded by the time he got to Kentucky. One and done. Too good to stay in college for more than a year. It wasn’t a question of if, but when, he would leave for the N.B.A. On Tuesday, about two weeks before Kentucky’s final exams were to begin, he announced he was going. The deadline for college players to declare their intentions to join the draft is Sunday, and by then, yet another spate of student-athletes will have dropped their books and backpacks — if they carried them at all — to head for the land of (more) fame and money. Kentucky’s freshman guards Aaron and Andrew Harrison said Friday that they planned to return to the Wildcats for their sophomore seasons. But Randle and his fellow Kentucky freshman James Young are two of more than a half-dozen freshman dropouts who hope to hear their names called high in the draft on June 26. Advertisement This is very upsetting to the N.C.A.A., and its president, Mark Emmert, said so during the Final Four. It’s equally upsetting to N.B.A. Commissioner Adam Silver, who has labeled the one-and-done phenomenon “a disaster” and has made it a priority to raise the N.B.A.’s minimum age to 20 from 19, two years removed from high school. Advertisement But what’s even more troubling than the one-year rule — which since 2006 has required players effectively to spend at least a year in college — is that the N.C.A.A. and the N.B.A. have taken it upon themselves to tell the athletes what’s best for them. The recent efforts of Northwestern football players to unionize should at least be a hint that some athletes are sick of being used as puppets to produce financial rewards for others. The Northwestern players have said they want more rights, including medical insurance, or at the very least a bigger voice in the system. To that, the university, its football coach and even some of its former players have basically said, “No, you don’t.” Maybe what’s best for college athletes should be left to the players and their families to decide. Instead, the system is structured to serve the adults who profit from it, not the athletes who play in it. No one requires a ballet prodigy to make the Bolshoi wait while he or she completes a semester of Intro to Environmental Science. At the heart of it, the rules are the fault of the N.B.A., which, with the cooperation of the N.C.A.A., has never provided an attractive alternative for players who might not be ready for, or even interested in, college. The N.B.A. has the Development League, of course, but the competition there is arguably much lower than in Division I basketball, even if the league’s players at least get modest paychecks along with their seasoning. Prospects can also join leagues overseas, as Detroit Pistons guard Brandon Jenningsonce did, but not every player is cut out for that. “Some kids just can’t handle the overseas lifestyle, so going to college is their only choice,” Washington Wizards guard John Wall said. Wall left Kentucky as a freshman in 2010 and became the No. 1 overall draft pick. After several difficult seasons, he has led the Wizards to the playoffs this year. And while he said he enjoyed his only year of college, he also said he had taken online classes and was now a junior, pursuing a degree in business management that he said he hoped would help him to become an N.B.A. general manager.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But the road he took is not for everybody either. One of his college teammates, Daniel Orton, said that in college he “took a lot of classes, but I just couldn’t find anything that I was interested in.” Orton — the last of four Kentucky freshmen drafted in the first round the year Wall went No. 1 — is considered a one-and-done bust because he did not develop into a star. But he banked about $2 million as part of his initial two-year contract with the Orlando Magic, and even though he hasn’t played much in the N.B.A. and has mostly bounced around the D-League, to consider that a failure is ridiculous. Orton said his goal was to coach. While that may require him to go back to college, he has already done well for himself. Advertisement “I’ve saved enough money for my family and me to live comfortably at the end of my life,” he said. The bigger problem, according to the Dallas Mavericks’ owner, Mark Cuban, is that the league needs to do a better job helping players transition from high school to the pros. To him, that doesn’t always mean a trip to college. “We could customize solutions for each person that could include paying for their education and providing support they need to do well with their education,” he wrote in an email exchange. “The same thing smart companies do.” Cuban said the N.C.A.A. right now “is one size fits all,” and “that makes no sense.” Creating an age minimum is arbitrary, too. Coaches like Kentucky’s John Calipari are supportive of the N.B.A.’s push to raise it. “Basketball players just seem to be in a different category,” said Richard Lapchick, who has studied graduation rates of college athletes since the 1970s. “Why don’t we put pressure on golfers or tennis players to stay in college? How about baseball players or hockey players? Nobody seems to care if they go to college.” Email: juliet@nytimes.com A version of this article appears in print on April 26, 2014, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: Given a Choice, Athletes May Prefer None and Done.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »