Advertisement By BEN DETRICKMARCH 15, 2014
 As the N.B.A. regular season winds down, losing teams turn hopeful eyes toward the N.C.A.A. tournament and the draft, whose class this season is so packed with talent that it has drawn comparisons to 2003, the year LeBron James, Carmelo Anthony and Dwyane Wade came out. The focus will be on players like Andrew Wiggins, a freakishly athletic guard at Kansas. His teammate Joel Embiid has drawn comparisons to the Hall of Fame center Hakeem Olajuwon. Duke’s preternaturally suave Jabari Parker could probably score 20 points in an N.B.A. game tonight. But the N.B.A.’s current collection of rookies serves as a reminder that a top pick does not guarantee the arrival of a basketball savior. Far less attention was lavished on the 2013 class, but in some ways, it has failed to live up to even humble expectations. The poster child for the class is Anthony Bennett, the 6-foot-8 forward selected first over all by the Cleveland Cavaliers after his freshman season at Nevada-Las Vegas. Anthony has been hampered by extra weight, injuries and asthma. Already compared by some observers to huge busts like Kwame Brown and Darko Milicic, he is averaging 4.1 points and 2.9 rebounds in 12.7 minutes a game. He is expected to be out until at least April with a knee injury. Advertisement Cavaliers General Manager David Griffin says he believes Bennett’s struggles are the result unfortunate circumstances. Advertisement “Anthony is a great example of a kid who is a fantastic human being who has been the best player on the court every time he rolled out of bed — until he came to the N. B.A.,” Griffin said before Bennett was sidelined last week. “When you couple that taste of adversity with a lack of conditioning and health, it creates a perfect storm. We didn’t assess how truly underwater he was at the start. To a huge degree, it had more to do with us.” Bennett played only modest minutes during the Cavaliers’ recent playoff push, but his performance improved significantly. In February, he shot 44 percent from the field with two double-doubles and averaged 15 points and 10 rebounds per 36 minutes. “The N.B.A. and all of professional sports now move at the speed of Twitter,” Griffin said, referring to the criticism aimed at Bennett. “The development of players happens over time. He wants to be great.” Several other players taken early in 2013 have struggled with injuries, too. Otto Porter, a small forward from Georgetown who was taken third over all by the Washington Wizards, missed the preseason and the first month of the season with a hip flexor injury. Since making his debut in December, he has shot 30 percent from the field and is buried on the bench. The Phoenix Suns’ Alex Len (fifth over all), Trey Burke (ninth) of the Utah Jazz and C. J. McCollum (10th) of the Portland Trail Blazers have likewise missed stretches to injury. Nerlens Noel, a linguine-thin center who was acquired in a draft-day deal by the Philadelphia 76ers after being taken sixth by the New Orleans Pelicans, has been inactive all season with a knee injury sustained while playing for Kentucky. He could be a mobile rim protector like the Knicks’ Tyson Chandler, but with the gutted Sixers in a lottery-bound downward spiral (they had lost 19 in a row entering Saturday’s game), there is no urgency to rush him back. “Had he been playing, he would have been one of the eye-catchers of this group,” said Brett Brown, the Sixers’ first-year coach. “There is a quiet killer in him, a real aggressive, defensive-oriented competitor.” But it has not been entirely bleak for the 2013 class. The current front-runner for rookie of the year honors is point guard Michael Carter-Williams, the No. 11 pick out of Syracuse who was averaging 16.8 points in Philadelphia’s warp-speed offense. His closest competition is Victor Oladipo of the Orlando Magic, a versatile guard out of Indiana who was the second overall pick and was averaging 13.9 points, 4.3 rebounds and 4.0 assists. Carter-Williams and Oladipo struggle with turnovers and perimeter shooting, but they have the luxury of playing on rebuilding teams for which making mistakes is part of the learning process. Advertisement But could an endless parade of losses affect the development of a young player? “Kevin Durant loses 60 games, and it didn’t seem to affect him,” Brown said. “Ultimately, it comes down to the person. Our report card isn’t going to be, ‘Did you win or lose?’ It’s ‘Did you implement the system and the culture?’ That’s our responsibility.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Giannis Antetokounmpo, a rookie for the Milwaukee Bucks, is another feel-good story on a painfully bad team. Antetokounmpo, who grew up in poverty in Athens, is a raw talent, but at 6-10, he is as long as his surname. Already a blogosphere folk hero, he was averaging 7.0 points a game and undoubtedly would be snagged higher than 15th if the draft were reshuffled today. The same could be argued for the Knicks’ Tim Hardaway Jr., who was scooped up with the 24th pick. Exceeding most projections, he was draining 3-pointers at a 37 percent clip. With luxury tax penalties increasingly severe for teams exceeding the salary cap, cheap but useful talent has never been more valuable to organizations with bloated payrolls. And several playoff-bound teams are benefiting from the contributions of rookie role players. The Oklahoma City Thunder shifted the sturdy Steven Adams (No. 12) to starting center after Kendrick Perkins sustained a strained groin. Similarly, the season-ending injury to the Nets’ Brook Lopez has been softened by the emergence of Mason Plumlee (No. 22), who has delivered efficient scoring and strong rebounding off the bench. While the 2013 class has been maligned for a lack of seismic phenoms, it might have more depth than initially believed, though players picked later in the draft often take longer to develop. One option for rookies who cannot earn immediate minutes is a stint in the N.B.A. Development League. A handful of first-round picks have labored there, surely all hoping to duplicate the trajectory of the 2012 draftee Terrence Jones, who played 24 games for the Rio Grande Valley Vipers last season and is averaging 11.4 points and 7.2 rebounds as a starter for the Houston Rockets. “There is no stigma down there,” said Ryan Blake, the senior director of the N.B.A.’s scouting operations. “That’s gone. D-League is a great opportunity to get your guys confidence and game toughness.” Shabazz Muhammad, a schoolboy star drafted by the Minnesota Timberwolves after a year at U.C.L.A., spent time with the Iowa Energy earlier this season. After being recalled by the Timberwolves, Muhammad earned increased playing time and scored 20 points in a late February victory over Phoenix. Despite the slow start by the 2013 class, conventional scouting wisdom argues that its quality cannot be accurately gauged until three years have passed. Advertisement “I give this speech to our young players all the time,” Rockets General Manager Daryl Morey said. “Stick with it. Most guys aren’t picked in the top 10 of the draft. When they get the opportunity, they have to pounce.” A version of this article appears in print on March 16, 2014, on Page SP4 of the New York edition with the headline: Even With Top Draft Picks, Saviors Prove Rare.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »