Advertisement By WARREN WEAVER JR. and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES John Thompson, the Georgetown University basketball coach, said today he would leave the bench at the start of Saturday night's Big East game with Boston College as a protest against a new scholarship regulation approved this week by the National Collegiate Athletic Association. He called the regulation ''discriminatory.'' After rejecting the proposition on Tuesday, the association on Wednesday passed by a 163-154 vote a plan that would bar high school students who do not receive a score of 700 on the Scholastic Aptitude Test or 15 on the American College Test from receiving athletic scholarships as freshmen. Thompson told a news conference on the Georgetown campus today that the S.A.T. had been ''proven culturally biased.'' Thompson said in a statement issued by the university that he would not be on the bench during a Georgetown game sanctioned by the N.C.A.A. ''until I am satisfied that something has been done to provide these student-athletes with appropriate opportunity and hope for access to a college education.'' 'Not an Ultimatum' During the news conference, however, he said that his absence from the bench ''could be one day, could be five days, could be a year,'' depending on the reaction to his protest. He said his move was ''not a threat and not an ultimatum but was designed to call attention to a ''tremendous tragedy'' that would result from application of the new N.C.A.A. regulation, which will apply to freshmen beginning in 1991. Advertisement Georgetown has won 11 games and lost only 1 this season. An assistant coach would run the team in Saturday's game after Thompson left. The game is scheduled for 8 P.M. at the Capital Centre in Landover, Md. Advertisement Thompson said that he did not intend to enlist other basketball coaches in his protest or to petition the N.C.A.A. or take any action other than leaving the bench at the opening tip. Thompson said that the change made by the N.C.A.A. ''fails to take into account the significant detrimental effect it will have on socioeconomic deprived students.'' ''They will no longer have an opportunity to show,'' he continued, ''that a poor test score in the S.A.T. or the A.C.T. is not a result of the lack of native intelligence, but is a result of the cultural bias of the test and the deprivation that has existed in their lives because of socioeconomic and racial issues that are, unfortunately, inherent in our society today.'' The new rule, Proposal 42, is based on the so-called Proposition 48, which established minimum academic standards that graduating high school students must meet to compete as freshmen. Currently, freshmen who are barred from competition can receive athletic scholarships if they meet only part of those standards. That will change under Proposal 42.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The most controversial component of the rules is the use of standardized test scores. Some critics believe that the tests are culturally biased and that the rules hurt a disproportionate number of blacks. Other people argue that the minimum standards can be met by students from all backgrounds who are properly prepared. Support From University President The president of Georgetown, the Rev. Timothy S. Healy, supported Thompson and called the new rule on freshmen scholarships ''unwarranted and unacceptable.'' He said it was ''an intrusion in the college's business'' for the association to attempt to decide which freshmen athletes should be given financial aid. Thompson said that if this kind of rule was in effect years ago, ''I would not have gotten a college education'' and that he thus had ''a moral obligation'' to protest. Advertisement Dave Gavitt, the Big East commissioner, said in a statement the conference supported Georgetown, adding: ''I respect John's position and will defend his right and that of his institution to express their position as they choose.'' David Cawood, the assistant executive director of the N.C.A.A. said the association had no position on Thompson's protest. ''It's an institutional matter,'' he said. ''We have no response.'' Cawood added, ''I do not believe that the delegates who voted for the proposal considered it a racial issue but a means to strengthen the academic entrance requirements for freshmen students who participate in athletics.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 14, 1989, on Page 1001045 of the National edition with the headline: Thompson to Leave Bench in Protest on Scholarships.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »