Advertisement By AL HARVIN and  When Bruce Coslet announced the Jets' team captains for the coming season, it was no surprise to see wide receiver Al Toon and middle linebacker Kyle Clifton named for the third straight year. What was a surprise was Coslet's decision to name six captains instead of the usual three. There was center Jim Sweeney as co-captain on offense, defensive end Jeff Lageman as co-defensive captain and wide receiver Chris Burkett and defensive back Erik McMillan as special teams co-captains. Last year, there was one special teams captain, kicker Pat Leahy, who has since retired. "All I can say is that I'm honored," said McMillan. "I'm not trying to harp on what happened or my experiences last year, but it does stun you a little." McMillan, a two-time All-Pro free safety, lost his starting job to Lonnie Young last year and was demoted to special teams. This preseason, McMillan had been put behind Mike Brim at left cornerback and had been relegated to more special teams duty, most notably as a kickoff returner -- something he openly balked at.  Not a Matter of Personalities Advertisement Was this an indication that McMillan, who led the Jets' special-team players in tackles with 21 last year, was back in Coslet's good graces? Advertisement "I don't want him to be one of my guys -- I want him to be a Jet and that's what he is," Coslet said. "It has no bearing on whether he likes me or I like him. I like him, O.K? Because I like the way he plays. I like that he's tough. He's fast. He's strong. He's hard-headed. I like that type of a football player." "Look at all those people up there," said Coslet. "I mean, Lageman is 180-degrees from Sweeney. Toon and Burkett are entirely different type of people. I'm not looking for the type of player. I'm looking for performance and I'm looking for leadership in their own way. And those six guys have it." Some Great Expectations Whatever the reason for McMillan's promotion, it seems his attitude has undergone a change. Today, he could talk about football with a smile again, even though he's playing on special teams and behind Brim at the corner. "Oh, definitely, I'm loving it," said McMillan. "I feel like I felt when I was a rookie -- excited about the whole thing, excited to be here and to get out there and get my hands on the ball as much as I do. It's a dream come true."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. McMillan credits the special teams coach, Al Roberts, for his conversion. "When I came into the league, I said I didn't care who I played for, they can never get me on kickoff returns, but boy I'll tell you, that Al Roberts, he's slick, he's slick." "He's a goal-setter," Roberts said of McMillan. Roberts came to the Jets last season as the coordinator of special teams, a job he held for the previous three seasons with the Philadelphia Eagles. Burkett, for one, is a fan of Roberts, who convinced him last season that special teams were his spot. Burkett was a first-round pick for the Buffalo Bills in 1985 out of Jackson State and came to the Jets as a free agent in 1989. He likely would be starting for the Jets if they didn't have Toon and Rob Moore. Burkett caught four touchdown passes last year, four more than Toon, and also scored after blocking a punt against Miami. But he has made the transition to special teams under Roberts's guidance and now welcomes McMillan as a co-captain of the unit. 'A Fine New Captain' "Erik is a fine new captain, but as you know Erik is also a heck of a defensive back and I think I'm a pretty good wide receiver," Burkett said. "What I like this year on punt defense is Erik is on one side and I'm on the other, so he pushes me and I hope I push him. Advertisement "At one time they used to say when I walked up to the line, 'Watch out for No. 87.' Now they've got to say watch out for No. 87 and also watch out for No. 22." "You know, I was trying to let up on him in training camp because he was doing so much of offense, and Chris Burkett actually got mad at me because I wasn't using him enough on special teams," said Roberts. Burkett will count on Roberts to help him. "What he does is teaches me to use my ability and give me tips that will help me get to the punter or beat double pressure on the punt team," Burkett said, "helping to turn me from an average special teams person to somebody that you got to watch out for." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 3, 1992, on Page B00016 of the National edition with the headline: FOOTBALL; Special Teams Suit McMillan and Burkett.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »