Advertisement By KEN BELSONAPRIL 13, 2014
 WASHINGTON —  The revelations that hits to the head may lead to long-term brain damage have rocked the football world at all levels, alarming coaches, players and their parents and forcing the N.F.L. and the N.C.A.A. to tighten safety standards. Given the consequences of the injuries, lawyers, too, have taken note, including those representing the 5,000 retired players who sued the N.F.L. over claims that the league hid the dangers of concussions. The notoriety of that case also prompted George Washington University’s law school to start what it said was the first course devoted to the legal implications of traumatic brain injuries. The weekly seminar addresses brain injuries of all sorts, including those sustained in car accidents and in falls. But the concussion crisis gripping the N.F.L. is what caught the law school’s attention. “We look for areas of the law that need attention,” said Gregory Maggs, the interim dean of the school, which offers about a half-dozen classes and seminars on health-care-related topics. Advertisement Held for two hours on Monday afternoons, the course is taught by Michael Kaplen, a plaintiffs’ lawyer who has worked on cases involving traumatic brain injuries for more than two decades. He says he has found that many universities, companies, health care providers and courts are inadequately prepared to deal with people with brain injuries, putting the onus on lawyers to find solutions. Advertisement “It’s a constant battle that really defaults every step of the way to the legal profession to handle on behalf of the millions of people who get injured,” Kaplen told his students last month. “The legal profession becomes in one way or another the champion because nobody else is there to do it. The lawyer has to become the doctor, has to become the social worker, has to become the neuroscientist and put that together for the individual.” Cases involving brain injuries rely on technical information, so Kaplen spent the first few weeks of the semester describing the anatomy of the brain, the mechanism of a brain injury and the diagnosis of injuries. He brings several models of the brain and the skull to class, as well as Silly Putty, which he uses to demonstrate how nerves stretch and sometimes snap in accidents. The class also discussed the epidemiology of brain injuries, how they are defined and the legal ramifications of those definitions, as well as how some people look for outward symptoms that may not exist, which might affect their ability to be effective jurors. Unlike some law school classes that focus either on theory or on practice, the seminar blends the intellectual with the practical, such as the admissibility of testimony and the presence of third-party observers in independent medical examinations. The class overlaps with another health-related course, so only three students signed up this semester. But the group, which includes a practicing doctor and a former teacher, seemed happy with the extra attention. “It’s only in the last five years have I paid attention to concussions,” said Katherine Noethe, who was interested in the class because her mother had a brain injury and because the issue had gripped the N.F.L. “Now, when you see a big hit, you think, It’s a concussion. From a legal perspective, you think, Who’s liable?” Given the popularity of football and the coverage of concussions, it was inevitable that a law school would offer a class on the topic, lawyers said, because the financial and health ramifications were too hard to ignore.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “There’s no doubt this is a hot topic,” said Mason P. Ashe, a sports lawyer who teaches at Georgetown. “It makes sense from a medical standpoint for there to be a class dedicated to it.” Advertisement After weeks of reviewing the fundamentals, Kaplen spent an entire class last month on concussions in football and other sports. He rifled through an 86-slide PowerPoint presentation that noted that concussions sustained in sports were different from others because the players often hid them and felt pressure to continue playing. Athletes who do not properly heal are also susceptible to catastrophic brain swelling from a second concussion. The number of concussions is vastly underreported, Kaplen said. “We are really facing a public health crisis,” he said. Kaplen addressed chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a progressive brain disease caused by numerous hits to the head that has been discovered in former athletes during autopsies. The students also discussed the Lystedt Law, which requires athletes suspected of concussions be removed from a game and not allowed to return until a doctor clears them. The law raised questions about who was qualified to identify head injuries and about the Catch-22 that coaches and leagues face when it comes to players’ health, Kaplen said. Some leagues claim that they are not responsible for the health of their players; those that do become liable. “Sports associations take the easy way out: They claim to only schedule games and no more,” Kaplen said in a delivery that sounded as if he were peppering a witness. But, he added, “Once you start doing something, you better do it right.” During the last half-hour of the class, Kaplen left no doubt about what he thought of the N.F.L. on this issue: that the league became liable once it began studying concussions two decades ago. He flipped to slides with titles that read, “Football Is a Concussion Delivery System,” “The Big Lie” and “Refusal to Acknowledge Link.” He then played video clips of Commissioner Roger Goodell being questioned by members of Congress in 2009 about football’s connection to concussions and long-term brain damage. “He could get away with that in a congressional hearing, but could he get away with that in court?” Kaplen said. “He just wants to obfuscate.” Kaplen pointed to a copy of a poster that described concussions and was placed in N.F.L. locker rooms. “You can’t put out all these posters like this and attempt to walk away from your misdeeds in the past,” he said. Players, though, will have difficulty winning cases against their teams and leagues because it is hard to prove that concussions they sustained during their careers led to current problems. And because no one forced the players to play, Kaplen said, “did they assume this risk, or were these players misled, and did the N.F.L. create an obligation?” Advertisement Daniel Carr, another student, said after the class, “It’s an evidentiary thing, but it’s really complicated, and I don’t think I have my hands around it yet.” A version of this article appears in print on April 14, 2014, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: Concussion Cases Prompt Law School to Add New Course.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »