Advertisement BY WILLIAM N. WALLACE and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES One of those early rat-tat-tat scoring sprees that have been the team's distinction broke open the Syracuse-Maryland game today and led to an easy 18-8 victory for the Orange in a semifinal match of the National Collegiate Athletic Association's Division I lacrosse tournament. Syracuse, the defending champion now with a 13-1 record, will play Johns Hopkins (11-1) for the title here on Monday. That is how it should be because the Blue Jays, who beat North Carolina by 10-6 in the other semifinal, are best equipped to cope with the mighty Orangemen. The only Orange loss this season was to Johns Hopkins, 14-13, on March 4 at Baltimore. Syracuse was seeded first and Johns Hopkins second in this 12-team tournament. Record Crowd The crowd of 20,263 for the doubleheader at Byrd Stadium, Maryland's home field, was a record for intercollegiate lacrosse. The old record was 20,148, set in the Carrier Dome at Syracuse a year ago in an N.C.A.A. tournament semifinal contest won by the Orange over Cornell. Advertisement Against the fourth-seeded Terrapins today, the Orangemen scored six goals in a span of 3 minutes 14 seconds or about one-fifth of the first period. At the end of that quarter they were ahead, 9-2. Gary Gait, the game's top player, scored one of those six goals and his twin brother, Paul, had two. Advertisement ''We wanted to get a lead in the beginning,'' said Gary, a junior from from Vancouver, British Columbia. ''Then we could take our time.'' The twins are midfielders, not attackmen, but they were so quick and so deft with the ball that they easily penetrated the Terps' defense and took their 80-miles-per-hour shots at either Mike McCanna or Matt Herrold, the goalminders. The Maryland players had not competed against the Gaits, but they had seen them on film and had heard much about the Canadian duo. The twins put on a show with their spectacular blind backhand passes and concluded with eight goals, five by Gary and three from Paul. ''That fancy stuff,'' said Scott Wheeler, the Maryland defenseman. ''We'd never seen that before.'' Dick Edell, Maryland's coach, described his team's plight at the end of the first period with a reference to the Gait twins. He said, ''We were down seven goals to a couple of kids who play the game as well as it can be played.'' Rain Doesn't Faze Syracuse  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Syracuse players, he added, ''were half a step, maybe a whole step, quicker than we were.'' It had rained hard just before the game started and Edell's presumption that wet grass might slow down the Orange was not borne out. Syracuse's superb passing produced such ball control that the Terrapins seldom had the ball in their sticks. Syracuse had the edge in shots, 55 to 29; in capturing face-offs, 18-12, and in recovering ground balls, 70-59. Roy Simmons Jr., the veteran Syracuse coach, said the early push had purpose. ''We wanted to get to their goalie, who was a little fragile,'' he said. ''That was our game plan and we did a very good job.'' McCanna lasted for almost eight minutes in the Maryland goal, then was relieved by Herrold. He returned when the latter was injured slightly in the third period. In the second game, Johns Hopkins outscored sixth-seeded North Carolina by 6-1 in the second half. The Blue Jays' deliberate offense, with the patience for the good shot, and Quint Essenich's strong goalminding were the key factors. Matt Panetta, the leading scorer for Johns Hopkins and one of a dozen Long Islanders on the team, had three goals and one assist as did Dennis Goldstein, another Long Islander, for the Tar Heels. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 28, 1989, on Page 8008010 of the National edition with the headline: LACROSSE; Syracuse to Face Hopkins in Final.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »