Advertisement By JOE SEXTON and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES Keith Hernandez walked into the clubhouse here Tuesday afternoon and strode straight past his locker directly to the lineup card posted next to the door to the field. He found his name written into the sixth spot in the order, where it had never been before in his six years with the Mets. He turned and walked away stoically - happy to be playing, unhappy that he had to check to find out. ''I've never had to look at the lineup to see if I was playing,'' said Hernandez, the veteran first baseman of the Mets. ''I don't like it that much. But I'd like it a lot worse if I wasn't in it.'' Hernandez hadn't been in it in two of the four games before Tuesday night's 3-1 victory over the Reds, in which he doubled and scored a run. Dave Johnson, the manager of the Mets, had opted to sit Hernandez against a pair of left-handers the week before. The moves had prompted Hernandez to alter his route through the clubhouse at Shea Stadium, as he proceeded straight from the lineup card to the manager's office. Accepts Johnson's Reasons ''He was up front, like he's always been,'' Hernandez said of Johnson. ''He gave me his reasons, and they were acceptable.'' Advertisement Johnson, who had played Tim Teufel at first base in Hernandez's place, said last week that it was unreasonable to speculate that the situation could develop into a platoon. But Johnson was also emphatic in reserving his right to play his best combination of players. On too many nights this spring, Hernandez has not been a component of such a combination. Advertisement ''I haven't had much of a rhythm,'' said the 35-year-old Hernandez, whose batting average has gained momentum downward over the last two years. ''One day, I'm making progress. The next, I'm back to square one. The word, I believe, is inconsistent.'' The last two games, though, have been encouraging. In addition to his contribution Tuesday night against the left-handed Danny Jackson, Hernandez collected three hits and drove in three runs in Wednesday night's 11-4 rout. ''Tuesday night wasn't great. Tonight was better,'' said Hernandez, who is batting .265. ''But I'm definitely not out of it.'' Diminished Role in Clubhouse Hernandez's awkwardness at the plate this season has been paralleled by his somewhat uncomfortable new role in the clubhouse. He is still one of the team's captains, but he is no longer its obvious leader. In the last six months, he's had one former teammate, Wally Backman, take pokes at him in the papers and had Darryl Strawberry take a genuine shot at him in spring training.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The National League's one-time most valuable player and an 11-time Gold Glove winner no longer lingers at his locker to dissect strategy after games, and before them he moves quietly, almost invisibly among his teammates and reporters. ''Nothing has really changed personally, but I am back in the shadows a bit,'' Hernandez said. ''I don't have to be what I was. And I'm worried about resentments.'' Hernandez is all too aware that he, like the more seriously struggling Gary Carter, could be let go altogether by the Mets at the end of the season. Hernandez is in the final year of his contract, burdened by deteriorating offensive numbers and a vulnerable right leg that twice forced him onto the disabled list last season. ''It's a big year,'' Hernandez said. ''They're worried if I'm going to get hurt, and they're waiting to see what I can do. I'm waiting to get hot.'' Carter in Tailspin Advertisement Carter's predicament, too, is anything but a closed issue. The 35-year-old catcher is hitting .114, and Johnson said Wednesday night he would find more playing time for Barry Lyons, the current backup. Lyons had a home run in the midst of Wednesday night's drubbing of the Reds, who allowed six unearned runs in one inning. ''I have my own timetable,'' Johnson said when asked whether there would come a point when Carter's lack of productivity would become intolerable. ''But it's not for tomorrow's stories.'' Meanwhile, Hernandez will get to the lineup card in the clubhouse every day, look for his name and for a way to get hot. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 12, 1989, on Page B00019 of the National edition with the headline: Hernandez Is Accepting New Order With the Mets.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »