Advertisement  Steeplechase  28-1 Shot Wins Grand National: Little Polveir, a 28-1 shot ridden by Jimmy Frost, took the lead halfway through the race and held on to win the Grand National steeplechase yesterday in Liverpool, England. Second was the 1986 winner, West Tip, who led for much of the race, faded and came on strong toward the end. Third was The Thinker, with Lastofthebrownies fourth. Last year, having jumped 25 of Aintree's 30 fences in style, Little Polvier unseated his rider and was unplaced. The owner switched trainers and the move paid off as the 12-year-old coped brilliantly with the heavy ground and a riderless horse late in the race to win by seven lengths in Frost's first Grand National. It was the second Grand National success for the trainer Toby Baldwin, who prepared Highland Wedding, the winner in 1969. The favorite, Dixton House, fell at the fifth fence, the Bechers Brook, on the first of the two 30-fence circuits.(AP)  Boxing  Fenech Retains Title, Then Retires: Jeff Fenech of Australia pounded out a unanimous 12-round decision over Marcos Villasana of Mexico last night to retain his World Boxing Council featherweight title, then announced his retirement. Fenech said he injured the brittle hands, which have caused him pain throughout his career, during the fight and had abandoned plans to seek a record six titles in different divisions. Fenech (23-0) is one of only 11 fighters in history to win world titles in three different weight divisions.(AP)  Soccer  Arsenal and Liverpool Keep Pace: Arsenal and Liverpool each won at home yesterday to maintain their battle at the top of the English League First Division soccer standing. Liverpool temporarily went to the top on goal difference after beating Sheffield Wednesday, 5-1, in a morning game behind a pair of goals by Peter Beardsley. Liverpool, 18 points off the pace five weeks ago, won for the ninth consecutive time. But Arsenal came back later in the day to defeat Everton, 2-0, on goals by Lee Dixon and Niall Quinn and regain the lead with 63 points from 32 games. Liverpool has 60 in 31.(AP)  Golf  Two-Shot Lead for Brown: Nancy Brown shot a one-under-par 70 yesterday to take a two-shot lead over Patti Rizzo after three rounds of the $300,000 L.P.G.A. Inamori Classic in Poway, Calif. Brown, who began the day tied for the lead with Laura Davies, made four birdies and three bogeys on the 6,042-yard StoneRidge Country Club course for a total of seven-under-par 206. Rizzo had a 68 yesterday. Martha Nause, who started the day one shot behind the co-leaders, missed a short par putt on the 18th hole for a 72 and was at 209. Davies had a 76, leaving her at 212.(AP)  Booros and Donald Share Lead: Jim Booros and Mike Donald shot four-under-par 66's yesterday to share the lead after three rounds of the $200,000 Deposit Guaranty Classic in Hattiesburg, Miss. Booros and Donald were at 11-under-par 199 on the Hattiesburg Country Club's 6,280-yard course.(AP) We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 9, 1989, on Page 8008009 of the National edition with the headline: RESULTS PLUS.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »