Advertisement 

 Michael Powell
 
 
SPORTS OF THE TIMES
APRIL 27, 2014
 Why not remain seated? The Los Angeles Clippers players faced a near-impossible situation Sunday. The man who owns their team, Donald Sterling, stood exposed as a gargoyle, disgorging racial and sexual animosities so atavistic as to take the breath away. The exposure of these rants rattled N.B.A. athletes. LeBron James, the best hoops practitioner on earth, spoke out quickly and emphatically. “They have to make a stand,” he said of N.B.A. executives. “They have to be very aggressive with it. I don’t know what it will be, but we can’t have that in our league.” Good, strong words. With luck, they rattled a couple of windows at the N.B.A. headquarters in Manhattan. Then eyes turned to the Clippers on Sunday afternoon. These professional athletes have trained all their lives for their shot at an N.B.A. title. They are at their physical peak, a time measured in short years. Only a glib fool would argue their choices Sunday were obvious. Advertisement The Clippers players turned their red practice jerseys inside out, like baseball players wearing silly rally caps. Then the horn sounded and they wore their real jerseys and that was that. Advertisement Yet you wondered: Was that all they had? What if the Clippers players had remained seated and refused to take the court? The N.B.A., whose corporate leaders and owners have known of Sterling’s racial and sexual grotesqueries for decades, and of the federal lawsuit that charged he would not rent apartments to blacks, would face a moment of truth. Would the N.B.A. executives make the Clippers, most of whose players are black, forfeit a playoff game? And what if the Golden State Warriors players and coaches had announced in advance that they would not accept that forfeit? They could have agreed to sit out the next game, and thus force yet another embarrassment down the gullet of the N.B.A. executives. Look, the rejoinder to this argument arrives with its own moral force. The Clippers players and coaches are no doubt mortified to have awakened in the midst of a playoff run to find that they are working for the Bull Connor of Southern California. These players arrived in Los Angeles riding the usual monopolistic trade winds of professional sports. Blake Griffin, the wondrous power forward, was drafted by the Clippers, as was DeAndre Jordan. Matt Barnes, J. J. Redick, Willie Green and Ryan Hollins joined the Clippers through trades and free agency and the like. The N.B.A. commissioner and the fans are best in position to punish Donald Sterling, should the racist comments on a tape recorder prove to be from the Clippers’ owner, says William C. Rhoden. Chris Paul, the all-N.B.A. point guard, arrived via a trade. In fact, we might tarry on that transaction to fully understand the N.B.A.’s complicity in this farce. Paul’s former team, the New Orleans Hornets, had worked out a trade with the Los Angeles Lakers, a sleek Mercedes-Benz of a franchise, and a place known for treating its workers, black and white, reasonably well. But David Stern, then the commissioner of the N.B.A., nixed that trade. He suggested it was a bad trade for the Hornets. He also hurt a well-run winning franchise because it was well run. Advertisement Then New Orleans turned around and sent Paul to the Clippers. Stern, well aware that Sterling had walked a garbage-strewn trail over three decades of team ownership, gave this trade his blessing, and so helped make a money winner of this benighted franchise.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Doc Rivers, the coach of the Clippers, strikes me as an ambiguous case here. He enjoyed an admirable N.B.A. career, as a fine point guard and a finer coach. He speaks with insight and eloquence. Yet he made the choice to join the Clippers. He said he did not know of Sterling’s history, and I suppose we should believe him. I also suppose he never knew that Elgin Baylor, one of the great African-American forwards to play in the N.B.A., had filed a lawsuit claiming that Sterling had a “vision of a Southern plantation-type structure” for his team. Sterling, Baylor claimed in his losing lawsuit, had once told a player’s agent: “I’m offering you a lot of money for a poor black kid.” Coaches are fixated on winning games. Fair enough, although Rivers might want to pick up a history book of his league, or the civil rights movement. He chose to sign with the Clippers for a terrific pile of gold, and so this moment is his. Professional athletes often make poor societal studies in bravery. Look at Hall of Fame quarterbacks and running backs, point guards and center fielders and pitching aces, white and black, and you will find few portraits in courage. For every Jim Brown, who spoke bravely of the injustices of society and the N.F.L., there are 20 more athletes who mumble vaporously. Yet clarity can arrive in unexpected places. On Sunday it came at halftime of an earlier N.B.A. game broadcast on ABC. Two commentators, Doug Collins and Bill Simmons, offered denunciations of Sterling, but on the subject of boycotts and the like, they purred like tabbies. Oh, Coach Rivers knows what he’s doing, it’s just important they remain united. On and on they went. It was left to Jalen Rose, the former N.B.A. player turned ABC commentator, to cut to the chase. He looked at his colleagues and said, “I wouldn’t be playing for that guy.” Then he tossed the gauntlet: “There won’t be a bigger stage for the L.A. Clippers today. They have to do something.” The Clippers players turned their jerseys inside out. You wonder, in years to come, if these proud men and splendid athletes will think that was enough. Email: powellm@nytimes.com A version of this article appears in print on April 28, 2014, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: Given Cause to Make a Stand, a Team Settles for a Gesture.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »