Advertisement By SAMUEL ABT and  Anybody wondering where Miguel Indurain had been hiding for a week got the answer today: He was in a telephone booth changing into a bicycle racing jersey with a very big letter S on it. Absolutely overpowering in a long time trial, Indurain finished more than three minutes ahead of the rest of the 179 riders still in the 1992 Tour de France to jump from 12th place to second over all. Until now there might have been some doubts about how strong and committed the Spaniard was as he sought his second successive victory in the world's greatest bicycle race. No longer. Riding 65 kilometers (about 41 miles) out of and back into Luxembourg, Indurain finished the event's ninth stage in 1 hour 19 minutes 31 seconds. The day's second-place rider, Armand de las Cuevas of Indurain's Banesto team, was a flat three minutes behind.  Lino Retains Yellow Jersey After that it was sheer destruction: Indurain gained 3:41 on Gianni Bugno of Italy, 4:04 on Greg LeMond of the United States, 4:10 on Stephen Roche of Ireland and 5:26 on Claudio Chiappucci of Italy, his major challengers for overall victory when the tour finishes on July 26 in Paris. Advertisement Long minutes after the defending champion finished came the second big surprise of the day. Pascal Lino, the young Frenchman in the yellow jersey, rode a superb race against the clock and finished sixth, retaining the symbol of leadership. Over all, Lino is first, 1:27 ahead of Indurain. Third is Jesper Skibby, a nonclimbing Dane with TVM. Roche is fourth, and LeMond, the three-time winner of the Tour who was fifth today, is fifth over all. Advertisement Very rarely does a rider crush his opponents so thoroughly in a long time trial. LeMond lost to Indurain by just eight seconds, for example, in the first time trial in last year's Tour. Excelling at every time check in the race, Indurain rode with his usual fluid grace and power, leaving his main rivals farther behind with each kilometer. Yellow is definitely the color he has in mind as the Tour approaches the Alps later this week. He climbs as well as he performs in time trials, but Lino does not. Except for Lino, the race has now sorted itself out into the expected battle among the favorites, a group in which Indurain must be considered by far the strongest. Until today, this was not entirely apparent. Since the Tour left Spain, where it started July 4, Indurain had done little to defend the No. 1 he wears on his back. LeMond and Chiappucci were especially pesky in the last week, picking up time as part of a breakaway into Brussels. Bugno, more careful, waited for the time trial. A lot of good it did them. LeMond is three minutes behind Indurain over all, Chiappucci 3:27 and Bugno 3:12. Bugno, who rides for Gatorade and finished second in the last Tour, lost eight seconds to Indurain in the first two kilometers today. By seven kilometers, that was up to 22 seconds.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Nor were things going much better for LeMond, who left two minutes after Bugno and four minutes after Indurain. At the seven-kilometer mark, he was five seconds down on Indurain. Because Indurain was ahead of them and his times could be relayed to them, Bugno and LeMond knew what they had to do. Their problem was that they could not stay with the Spaniard's pace. By kilometer 37, when the course turned right and headed away from the Moselle River and its traffic of barges and swans, Indurain led Bugno by more than two minutes and LeMond by a bit less. From then on the Spaniard just kept getting stronger. When he was about 400 meters from the finish, he caught and passed Laurent Fignon, a Frenchman with Gatorade, and the huge and noisy crowd gasped. In a time trial, the riders leave separately, in reverse order of standing, and Fignon had started six minutes before Indurain.  Premium Placed on Brawn Advertisement Lino did almost as well, catching Jens Heppner, a German with Telekom, who had been in second place and started two minutes in front of him. Heppner dropped to seventh. In reality, it was a fine time trial for almost all the top-ranked riders, who finished near each other. For Indurain, it was a superb time trial. The course -- mainly flat and straight except for a small climb and some gentle curves -- called for little technical ability. What was demanded was strength, which Indurain had in abundance. As usual, he rode with a look of unemotional determination, not even grimacing slightly when he left the paved highway and bumped onto cobblestones in the village of Ehnen, halfway through the course. All sorts of equipment was in evidence for the time trial as riders varied their wheels, frames, saddles and handlebars, seeking an extra advantage. Most riders used a rear-disk wheel, but from then on it was anybody's choice. On Tuesday, the 10th stage will take the riders on a 135-mile leg from Luxembourg to Strasbourg. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 14, 1992, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: CYCLING; A Bird? A Plane? No, It's Only Indurain.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »