Advertisement By ROBIN FINN and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES The last time these two Wimbledon champions clashed on Centre Court, the one who won did an impersonation of the way the other had missed a volley and then tumbled over the net during their three-set quarterfinal match. When it ended, the loser wore a strawberry blond fright wig to his news conference. Two years later, they are meeting again, same court, same tournament, same pride at stake, and Pat Cash promises he still has the Boris Becker memorial wig in his bag of tricks. Each has an ego the size of a billboard, and the talent and desire to match. Each has been a Wimbledon champion, but in 1988 it was Becker who was trying to wrestle back a title he said Cash had ''stolen'' from him in 1987, even though they never played that year because of Becker's surprise second-round exit. Stolen Thunder More accurately, Cash had stolen Becker's thunder by winning with a flourish, and the West German wanted the title back. Advertisement This year Becker is the defending champion, a status he doesn't carry lightly. But Becker also remembers that his overemphasis on their 1988 grudge match probably cost him the title that year: he was so pleased by his resounding putdown of Cash that he forgot to lay a similar trap for Stefan Edberg in the final and wound up waiting until 1989 to reign again at Wimbledon. Advertisement ''This time I am the one defending the title,'' said Becker, who at the age of 22 is enough jaded by the game to count on one hand the number of titles he feels are worth defending. Of the possibility for personal on-court pyrotechnics Monday, Becker admitted that these are two competitors whose ''personalities clash.'' They don't practice guitars together because Cash, who hankers to own a tavern and promote rock concerts, is into heavy metal and Becker, whose ponderings and pronouncements verge on the philosophic, doesn't like noise. Lacking Togetherness They don't practice their tennis together because they don't particularly fancy each other's company unless they are placed in a competitive scenario that permits everything but hand-to-hand combat. ''It should be interesting,'' Becker said of his rematch. Beyond their matching tree-trunk thighs, there is little that links them. Cash wears a golden earring for irreverency's sake and has turned his black-and-white checkerboard headband into an advertisement for himself. Becker cringes at the thought of being anybody's commodity, even his own, and constantly bemoans the fetters of the megabucks contracts he signed back when he was Boom-Boom, the 17-year-old boy wonder who won Wimbledon in 1985. One is a short-fused 25-year-old Australian with a penchant for night life and building the body beautiful, not always tandem pursuits. The other is an inquisitive West German who wears his athleticism like a set of armor and equates a year on the tennis circuit to a dog year. Each one seems, he has sighed, to last forever. While Cash feels he has worked an eternity to rehabilitate himself from a crippling injury to his Achilles' tendon just for the privilege of playing tennis, Becker has said he can't really find any reason not to retire at 25. Advertisement The Elusive French Open But for as long as he plays tennis, Becker will draw his self-esteem from it, and after going out in the first round of the French Open, the only tournament he has dreamed of winning and not won, a perfect performance here has become imperative.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. If he successfully fends off Cash's challenge, Becker, who prowls through the early rounds as surly as a caged animal, appears to have no other logical obstacle between himself and a berth in the final against Ivan Lendl or Stefan Edberg. Cash, on the other hand, has made it clear that his only plan, after each successful round, has been to go out and find himself a good dinner. But in the big picture, he is, like Becker, at this tournament to win this tournament even if his singles ranking, which dipped to 627 in February, is still in limbo at 142. ''If I'm not ready now to start tackling the top guys in the world, I don't know when I am,'' said Cash, who volleyed flawlessly in his third round meeting with Juan Aquilera. ''The only way I would go through a tournament and say I was satisfied was if I won the tournament,'' he said. According to Cash's coach of 15 years, Ian Barclay, the player's ambitions have been unaffected by his stream of injuries. Rush, Rush, Rush ''He has always been a young man in a hurry, wants everything to happen overnight,'' said Barclay, ''and he's a difficult man to work with, much more complicated than most guys, because he expects so much of himself.'' Barclay said it isn't always simple to get Cash fully focussed on his tennis, but once in harness, he is undeterrable. ''It's like putting a race horse in blinkers to give him that tunnel vision,'' Barclay said. ''Once he's there, he's unbelievable. If only he hadn't had this worst roller-coaster ride of injuries over the last five years.'' Cash has now been brought down from his pinnacle among the world's top 10 twice by potentially career-ending injuries - before the tendon snapped, he hurt his back - but he has always shown a determination to master his infirmities. He played a Wimbledon quarterfinal in 1986 just two weeks after undergoing an appendectomy. Advertisement After snapping his Achilles' tendon at the Japan Open last year, he was devastated only when his leg was removed from its cast after two months and he beheld a limb that more resembled pasta than Proteus. ''That's when he looked in the mirror and wondered if he could get it all back,'' Barclay said. But the duo trained Cash back into fighting condition, and after a sobering first-round loss in his comeback debut at Key Biscayne, Fla., Cash, reduced to playing the qualifying rounds at Seoul, South Korea, went to the final there and was the champion in Hong Kong the next week. Quibbles and Memories Here at Wimbledon, where Becker still has his daily quibble with gatekeepers who, defending champion or not, won't let him onto the grounds without a pass, Cash has been letting himself succumb to a pleasant case of deja vu. ''It is all coming back, the memories and the instinctiveness about playing in tournaments and being under pressure,'' Cash said. ''That's it: getting used to playing under pressure and coming out alive.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 2, 1990, on Page C00007 of the National edition with the headline: Tennis;   2 Champions Clash With Egos at Stake.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »