Advertisement By CLIFTON BROWN Doug Collins attended a Broadway play Wednesday night, enjoying a temporary escape from the stress of coaching the Chicago Bulls. A few years ago, Collins might have felt guilty taking a break during the playoffs. But while Collins remains one of basketball's most intense coaches, he is gradually learning to relax. At least until the game begins. ''Doug hasn't changed on the sidelines during games, and frankly, I have urged him to remain who he is,'' said John Bach, one of the Bulls' assistant coaches. ''He's the emotional fuel that this team needs. The Doug Collins you see at a game is a very emotional, excitable, quick-thinking man. It drives players, it excites them, it angers them, and it motivates them. ''Sure, he could become more placid on the bench, like a plastic man. But there are two kinds of teams, those that are led, and those that are driven. This is a driven team, largely due to Doug.'' Taking the Advantage After upsetting Cleveland in the first round of the playoffs, the Bulls are confident they can beat the Knicks. Chicago opened the four-of-seven-game Eastern Conference semifinal series Tuesday night with a 120-109 overtime victory at Madison Square Garden, seizing the home-court advantage from New York. The Knicks came back to win Game 2 last night. Collins rarely sits during games, preferring to kneel in front of the bench or pace along the sideline. He has been known to chomp through 10 sticks of chewing gum during a game. And he sweats so profusely, he usually brings an extra dress shirt so he can change after games. Advertisement At 37, Collins is the second-youngest coach in the National Basketball Association. Rick Pitino of the Knicks is 36. But after three seasons in the National Basketball Association, Collins knows he doesn't have the relaxed style conducive for a long career. And Collins envisions himself leaving coaching at a relatively young age. Confident of Chances Advertisement ''I'd like to coach for 10 years,'' Collins said. ''Then I'd like to get into the front office in some capacity -player personnel or assistant general manager, something like that. ''But I feel very good these days. I feel very confident when we go into a game that we've got the right game plan, and that we're going to do things the right way. Once you get some experience and have some success you gain more confidence. ''The guys know that I'm intense, but I think that's the way it has to be. This is an intense business. I think our guys want me to have that kind of intensity, to know that I'm out there competing and fighting with them for the 48 minutes. That's just the way I am.'' Collins coaches the way he played. He had a successful career as a 6-foot-6-inch guard with the Philadelphia 76ers - eight seasons, a 17.9 points per game average, and four appearances in the All-Star Game. He would have played longer, but a series of knee and foot injuries cut short his career. Collins underwent surgery seven times before retiring in 1981. Since Collins became coach, the Bulls have steadily improved. In his first season, they made the playoffs but were swept by Boston in the opening round. Last season they made the conference semifinals, but lost to Detroit. If the Bulls defeat New York, they will play in the conference championship for the first time this decade.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Chicago's decision to hire Collins as coach was controversial. He spent three seasons as a college assistant -one at the University of Pennsylvania and two at Arizona State. Collins had no head coaching experience, but Chicago's front office saw qualities that others did not. ''I know when we hired Doug, some people said, 'What are they doing now?' '' said Jerry Krause, Chicago's general manager. ''But he's a great communicator. We were looking for a guy who had played in the league recently, someone who knew what today's player goes through. Advertisement ''Doug has a very bright mind and he's a quick thinker. Once our owner, Jerry Reinsdorf, myself, and everyone in our organization had a chance to meet Doug, we all felt very comfortable with the decision. He's excellent, and he's still learning.'' Credits Assistants' Advice Collins is surrounded by three experienced assistant coaches - Bach, Tex Winter, and Phil Jackson, the former Knick. ''I pick their brains about a lot of things,'' Collins said. ''There's no way I would have the success I've had in coaching without their help.'' And Collins enjoys a good working rapport with Michael Jordan, the Bulls' franchise player. Jordan and Collins's relationship has grown stronger as years have passed. In March, Collins suggested to Jordan that he move from shooting guard to point guard. Jordan agreed and has flourished in his new role. ''It took some time adjusting to Doug,'' Jordan said. ''He is such a young coach, and this was his first opportunity as a head coach. I was very skeptical of how good he was, and of how much knowledge he had. But he was pretty knowledgeable right from the beginning. I think the guys have really adjusted well to him. He has been very helpful to me as a player because he has been through it himself. ''We know he's very emotional, and he shows it more than other coaches. We see that and it has an impact on how we feel during a game. When you see your coach emotionally involved, it helps get you emotionally involved. He's a great players' coach.'' Few expected the Bulls to advance this far, and beating the Knicks would be a major step for a young team that has two first-round picks in the June draft, including a lottery pick it acquired in a trade with the Nets. ''With guys like Michael, Horace Grant, Scottie Pippen, and Brad Sellers, we have a pretty young nucleus we can build with,'' Collins said. ''Hopefully, we're going to get some more talent in the draft, so if we stay injury-free, we should keep improving for the next few years. ''But I'd love to see us get to the Eastern Conference finals right now. Once you do that, you're on the verge of knocking on the door to something great.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 12, 1989, on Page B00017 of the National edition with the headline: Behind Bulls' Fire A Coach to Match.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »