Advertisement By STEVEN CRIST Quick Call, who usually saves his best races for Saratoga, found a wet Belmont track to his liking yesterday and scored a front-running four-length upset victory over Sewickley in the $87,800 Tom Fool Stakes. Quick Call, a 6-year-old gelding, traditionally races himself into shape during the Belmont spring meeting, then fires at Saratoga, where he has won frequently over the last three years. Until yesterday, though, it looked as if he might have lost a few steps to advancing age, having run worse than usual in two dirt starts at the meeting. He showed some life finishing second on the grass in the Poker Stakes last time out on the grass, but was still beaten by eight lengths. Favorite Threatens In the Tom Fool, Quick Call looked as good as ever. After shaking off early challenges from the long shots Fierce Fighter and Seven Card Draw, he pulled clear after a moderate first quarter-mile in 22.73 and half-mile in 45.52. Advertisement Sewickley made a menacing move up the rail to draw within a length after six furlongs in 1:09.47, but the leader had plenty left. Quick Call drew off with a final eighth of a mile in a fine 12.10 seconds and Sewickley could not keep up. Advertisement Sewickley, the 1-2 favorite who carried top weight of 123 pounds, four more than his four rivals, finished second, 6 1/2 lengths clear of Traskwood. It was another 6 1/2 lengths back to Fierce Fighter. Seven Card Draw was last.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Quick Call, a son of Quack and the Sadair mare Sadie Mae, is owned by Lynda Stokes and trained by Sid Watters. He paid $10 for $2 to win after running the seven furlongs in 1:21.57 under Jorge Chavez, who was winning his seventh race in the last two days. NO MR. NICKERSON The Tom Fool failed to draw the nominal leader of New York's sprinters, Mr. Nickerson, who beat Dancing Spree in the Roseben on June 3 and Sewickley and Dancing Spree in the True North on June 23. Mr. Nickerson is getting a brief freshener and will make his next start in either the A Phenomenon Stakes at Saratoga on Aug. 4 or the Keeneland-Nunthorpe Stakes in York, England, on Aug. 23. FIELD OF 4 FOR PRIORESS Today's Belmont feature drew another small field with a heavy favorite. Stella Madrid, who won the Acorn Stakes on May 26, will be odds-on from the outside post against Charging Fire, Miss Spentyouth and Token Dance in the $75,000 Prioress Stakes for 3-year-old fillies. The Prioress, a Grade II race, is a prep for the seven-furlong Grade I Test Stakes at Saratoga on Aug. 2, also for 3-year-old fillies. Belmont officials said yesterday that they had negotiated a settlement to the three-month impasse that has stopped daily simulcasts to Yonkers Raceway. The loss of simulcasting revenue led to purse cuts earlier at the Belmont meeting, and several Saratoga stakes purses may now be restored to their original values. The settlement must be approved by the State Racing and Wagering Board. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 15, 1990, on Page 8008010 of the National edition with the headline: HORSE RACING;   Quick Call Wins Tom Fool in Upset.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »