Advertisement By CLIFTON BROWN and  As Hubert Davis kept swishing jumper after jumper during the Knicks' summer league games, Coach Pat Riley watched from the bleachers and thought about the possibilities. "That's all we want: players who can make open jumpers," Riley said. "The scouting reports about him were right. It doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out why we drafted him. He can shoot. But really, I've been impressed with his overall game, his ability to get open and his feel for the game." Davis, the Knicks' first-round draft choice from North Carolina, has caught the eye of scouts, fans and coaches watching games during the Doral Arrowwood Summer League, which will end Sunday at the Westchester County Center. Through his first three games, Davis shot an eye-opening 70.9 percent from the field (22 for 31) and averaged 22.6 points a game. Wait Till Fall Advertisement Obviously, summer-league competition is much different than regular-season competition. Most of the players that the Knicks, the Nets, the Philadelphia 76ers and the Boston Celtics have sent to this summer league will not be on the roster when the regular season begins. And Davis still hasn't experienced fall training camp, when the competition will be much more intense. Advertisement But the way Davis has shot the ball so far makes the Knicks feel even better about drafting him. And the 6-foot-5-inch guard is glad he decided to participate in summer camp, although he has not yet agreed to a contract. "I wanted to get a head start on everything, so that when training camp starts, I'll be a lot more familiar with the Knicks' system," Davis said. Asked about his torrid shooting so far, Davis smiled and said: "Nobody shoots 70 percent for long. I'm sure the law of averages will take over soon and that percentage will go down. But I know I can shoot. My father put up a hoop in our front yard when I was young, and I just shot every day. Shooting is somewhat of a lost art. I'm not one of those guys who flies through the air and dunks. That's not my game. "Right now, I'm just trying to fit in and play hard. I'm not nervous. There's nothing to be nervous about, because all you can do is give it your best and play hard. And I guarantee you, I'll always play hard."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Several things intrigued the Knicks about Davis other than his shooting. He improved in each season of his college career. Although he weighs about 180 pounds now, the Knicks think his frame can carry about 205 pounds, which will give him the size and strength to defend the league's bigger shooting guards. The Knicks are convinced that the tradition of Coach Dean Smith's program at North Carolina, which has produced such a long list of National Basketball Association stars, including Michael Jordan, James Worthy, Brad Daugherty, Sam Perkins and Walter Davis, Davis's uncle, will help Davis adjust to the league. "He has had to play big games in a tough conference," Riley said. "He is used to the pressure of playing in a great program, where players are expected to produce. That's important." With the addition of Rolando Blackman and Davis, Riley hopes the Knicks' perimeter shooting, which was their biggest weakness last season, becomes a strength. Advertisement Whenever New York's offense bogged down, it was usually because the Knicks failed to make open jumpers. Because opponents will continue to double-team Patrick Ewing, those same open jumpers will be available for his teammates again this season. With Blackman and John Starks in front of him at shooting guard, Davis will have to improve his defense to earn regular playing time. But when Davis does play, the Knicks will want him to do what he does best: shoot. "I'm excited about this opportunity," Davis said. "I'm with a winning team and I've got a chance to learn from some great players. I just want to keep getting better." REBOUNDS In summer league play, the Knicks, who are 3-1, defeated the Philadelphia 76ers, 110-103, Saturday night at the Westchester County Center in White Plains. GERALD PADDIO, a free-agent forward, led New York with 28 points while HUBERT DAVIS had 23 and ANTHONY MASON added 21 points and 11 rebounds. For the 76ers, first-round draft pick CLARENCE WEATHERSPOON led all scorers with 29 points. On Sunday, the Knicks will play in the title game against the Celtics, who defeated the Nets, 136-127. KENNY ANDERSON led the Nets with 39 points. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 19, 1992, on Page 8008005 of the National edition with the headline: BASKETBALL; So Far, No. 1 Pick Doesn't Disappoint.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »