Advertisement By WILLIAM C. RHODEN To Mike Kelly, the memory of Rick Carter hangs like a banner at half-staff over a profession that has become increasingly pressurized and less forgiving in recent years. Carter was the football coach at the University of Dayton from 1977 through 1980, compiling a 39-7-2 record and leading the Flyers to the Division III national championship in 1980. ''He was my mentor,'' recalled Kelly, who replaced Carter in 1981. ''All my knowledge of coaching came directly from Rick. I had no other teacher. I had never been with Woody Hayes, Bo Schembechler, Joe Paterno or anything like that. Rick Carter was my whole background. And I thought that everything he did was exactly the way to do it. When he left Dayton, I kept patterning myself after him. I kept putting all that pressure and stress on myself: 'I got to win, got to win, got to do it this way.' '' Carter left Dayton after the 1980 championship to become the coach at Holy Cross, and he led the Crusaders to three straight winning seasons. But in 1985, Holy Cross stumbled to a 4-6-1 record. The following February, Carter, depressed by the losing season and the death of his father, committed suicide. Advertisement Big Impact on Protege ''My philosophy changed drastically and in a hurry at that point,'' said Kelly, who led Dayton to the Division III title last season. ''I had to take a step back and say: 'Maybe he wasn't right. Maybe there are other things that were important.' Rick was extremely competitive, to the point that he was almost sick because he was so competitive. After he died, I began to think that there had to be more to it than going out and trying to win 10 ball games.'' Advertisement While Carter's case is extreme, it symbolizes the inherent pressures of a highly visible yet fragile profession where insecurity is the norm and longevity is a luxury. There are 20 new coaches in Division I-A this season: 10 have never been head coaches before, and the others have either been dismissed elsewhere or simply quit uncomfortable situations. Increased television revenue, conference restructuring and the conflict between the college game and the National Football League over player eligibility have compounded the problems for coaches as much as overbearing alumni have. Bill Curry, who is beginning his first season at Kentucky after three seasons as the Alabama coach, said he knew Carter only by reputation. But Curry said two of his close friends had died from what he called stresses related to coaching. Joe Morrison, the South Carolina coach, died last year and Dan McClain, the former Wisconsin coach, died in 1985. Both suffered heart attacks. ''I know it was related to stress; you can't separate stress from what happened,'' Curry said. ''You can argue that we put this stress on ourselves, that we don't have to take these jobs, we don't have to be so anxious to win and be so great and wonderful all day every day, that we'd be the same in any business. ''But there is also the fact that our business is very visible. If I'm president of a bank and we have a bad quarter, nobody knows it except people at the bank. I do a bad job of coaching, my wife can't go to the supermarket, my son can't go to school. There's a different kind of stress.'' 10-1 Wasn't Enough Alabama finished with a 10-1 record last season and earned its first Sugar Bowl berth since 1979. But Curry, who coached at and graduated from Georgia Tech, said he had felt pressure to leave from external forces that resented a so-called outsider's coaching the Crimson Tide. After the Homecoming loss to Mississippi in 1988, a brick was thrown through his office window. Losing to intrastate rival Auburn three years in a row didn't help matters. ''We still have plenty of places with such built-in predispositions that can't quite part with the past,'' he said. ''Here I was with a Georgia Tech diploma and that was unacceptable to an awful lot of people in that environment. The vast majority were wonderful, but there were just enough who were loud enough and vindictive enough that it made life absolutely miserable for the players.'' But while pressure can be a coach's mortal enemy, it is also a large part of the attraction. Barry Alvarez, the former Notre Dame defensive coordinator who is beginning his first season as the coach at Wisconsin, said pressure was part of the inducement. Advertisement ''The reason I went to Notre Dame initially was to get a head-coaching job in a prestigious conference,'' he said. ''When you coach at Notre Dame you're under a magnifying glass. Every practice is scrutinized. Spring practice is scrutinized. Every play is scrutinized. I've played at Nebraska, coached at Iowa, coached in two Rose Bowls. I've been around pressure. I've prepared myself for this position. This is my hobby.''  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. For many younger coaches, there is neither the need nor the expectation to stay at one place for 25 or 30 years. The Profession's Motto ''They say you're hired to get fired,'' said Paul Hackett, who is beginning his first season as the coach at Pitt. ''I think nowadays when you think of longevity, you think of 5 years, maybe 10 max,'' he said. ''If you win all the time they get bored and start to look for things to criticize. If you lose they get rid of you. Maybe the whole idea is just to get rid of you.'' Hackett was a Division II quarterback at California-Davis and was headed to medical school. But when he began coaching the Davis freshman football team after graduation, he was hooked. After a year with the freshman team, Hackett took an assistant coaching job at California, then moved to the Southern Cal as the quarterbacks coach. Hackett joined the Cleveland Browns in 1981 and moved to the San Francisco 49ers in 1983. In 1986 Hackett was hired by Tex Schramm to spice up the Dallas Cowboys' offense. But by 1988 he was all but removed from the Dallas offense. When the new regime took over in Dallas, Hackett landed at Pitt as Mike Gottfried's assistant. Last December, when Gottfried was dismissed after several stressful incidents, including a crying session in front of his players, Hackett became the coach. While Hackett would prefer security, he said he was driven by the excitement and pressures - even the uncertainties - of the game. ''Ever since I left Division II to begin this journey in big-time football, I've been fascinated by the pressure of it,'' he said. ''I love it. I get caught up in it. In fact, I thrive on it. The excitement gets in your blood, the rush of the game, thrill of big plays. The pressure comes with the territory.'' Advertisement As many coaches mature, however, such excitement gives way to the realization that they are usually only as good as their last winning season, and sometimes that's no guarantee. Bobby Bowden, who at age 60 signed a lifetime contract at Florida State this year, is beginning his 14th season with the Seminoles and needs five victories to reach the 200 mark. Bowden can pinpoint the year when his attitude changed.  ''I was at West Virginia in 1974, that was the only losing season I had there,'' he recalled. ''Well, there was a group that wanted me gone and they were getting together and forming some committee meetings. But the president said 'No, that is out of the question, I'm running the show,' and he saved my job.'' Bowden took the Mountaineers to a bowl game the next season but didn't wait for plaudits. He resigned and went to Florida State. ''I got the message in 1974,'' he said. ''That was the point in my career when I realized that hey, these folks can get you if they want to and if you see a better opportunity, you have every right in the world to go after it.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 23, 1990, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: When Sideline Becomes Firing Line.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »