Advertisement By PETER ALFANO There are people who say that politics and sports should not mix, but history says this is an idealistic notion with little basis in reality. A couple of recent cases in point: David Markin, the president of the United States Tennis Association, wrote a letter to all American professional and junior players, re-stating the U.S.T.A.'s opposition to its players' participating in events in South Africa because of apartheid, that country's policy of segregation. Markin warned that the International Olympic Committee and the International Tennis Federation might pass legislation banning tennis players who have gone to South Africa from the Olympic Games. Markin wrote, ''We once again remind you that playing in South Africa could be construed as lending moral support to apartheid.'' The Association of Tennis Professionals, which will run the men's tour beginning next year, has sanctioned two tournaments in South Africa. There was one under the grand prix format. Hamilton Jordan, the A.T.P.'s chief executive officer, has used the ''politics and sports do not mix'' defense for the decision. Advertisement It is worth noting, however, that in 1980, as President Carter's chief of staff, Jordan was a strong backer of the United States boycott of the Moscow Olympics. Advertisement What makes it more difficult to fathom Jordan's current position is that the subject of human rights was a major crusade during the Carter Administration and one would expect the former President's right-hand man to exert more influence on the A.T.P. board, which sanctioned the South African tournaments, or at least to state his personal objections. In another case of sports and politics overlapping, Natalya Zvereva created an uproar last month when she joined the women's tennis association, hired her own agent and demanded that the Soviet Union's tennis federation allow her to keep more of her prize money. Her boldness appears to have inspired Andrei Chesnokov, the top Soviet male player. Chesnokov, who quietly joined the A.T.P. a year ago, was outspoken about prize money last week in Munich, West Germany, where he won a major clay-court tournament. A Soviet man receives $800 if he reaches a semifinal, nothing if he loses earlier, he said. ''We have to band together,'' Chesnokov added. ''If we all cry out for change, maybe something will happen.''  Forest Hills, 1990  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. A sign on a booth at the West Side Tennis Club in Forest Hills read, ''Advance Sales, 1990.'' But there were no tickets available because the Eagle Tournament of Champions will not be a sanctioned event on the men's tour next year. Instead, fans were being given the opportunity to put their names on a list for tickets to a hardcourt exhibition planned for the summer of 1990. It is unfortunate that the charm and tradition of Forest Hills were not enough to guarantee its place on the men's calendar. The A.T.P. offered to do so only if the Tournament of Champions accepted a redesignation as a lesser event. That meant none of the top 10 players would have been obligated to play and that probably would have cost the tournament its television contract with ABC. But as the tournament last week demonstrated once again, the changeable early May weather is a major obstacle to the artistic success of the Tournament of Champions, even if big names are present. What's more, fans who must drive to Queens continue to be inconvenienced by a lack of suitable parking in the residential neighborhood of Forest Hills. Last week, some local residents placed barrels on the street in front of their homes, preventing fans from parking. One woman stood in her driveway one cold, windy afternoon, holding a sign that read, ''Parking.'' The price was negotiable.  Contented at No. 2 Although he has won only one of 10 tournaments and slipped from No. 1 to No. 2 since winning the United States Open last September, Mats Wilander did not appear overly distressed in his first appearance at the Tournament of Champions. ''I'm not really worried,'' Wilander said. ''I've been in this situation every year for the last three or four, except for last year. After the U.S. Open, it was hard to see anything else being important. I was just trying to enjoy myself.'' Advertisement Wilander has a history of playing well in the Grand Slam tournaments and brushing off the others. ''As No. 1, though, there is a feeling you have a responsibility not to lose,'' he said. ''As No. 1, you're defending yourself all the time. It's easier to set goals when you're No. 2.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 10, 1989, on Page D00034 of the National edition with the headline: NOTEBOOK; New Tour's Attitude on South Africa Difficult to Fathom.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »