Advertisement By PHIL BERGER Two years ago, Angelica Gavaldon made it into the United States Open on her ranking and won her first-round match before losing to fourth-seeded Zina Garrison. Although Gavaldon's United States Open debut at age 16 was overshadowed by the coming out party of 14-year-old Jennifer Capriati, the teen-ager from Mexico appeared to have a bright future. Instead Gavaldon, now 18 and living in Coronado, Calif., grew tired of tennis and took time off from the tour. It was a surprising decision because 1991, her opening season on the pro tour, had been full of promise -- she began the year with a stunning quarterfinal finish at the Australian Open and finished it ranked No. 51. "I didn't play last year," she said yesterday. "I was tired. I needed a break. I was doing well. I just wasn't happy. In the time I took off I realized I wanted to play tennis." 'No. 400 or Something' But that time off has made Gavaldon's entry into this year's United States Open a hard, hot and by no means guaranteed journey through the qualifying rounds. Her ranking has fallen to "No. 400 or something," and yesterday Gavaldon was one of 64 women out on the steamy courts of the U.S.T.A. National Tennis Center in Flushing Meadows, Queens, shooting for eight spots in the main draw of the Open. Advertisement Gavaldon took a tentative first step toward her objective, beating 11th-seeded Francesca Romano of Italy, 6-3, 1-6, 6-3. But to make the big show, which is scheduled to start Monday, she must win two more matches in the qualifying, which ends tomorrow.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. For 16-year-old Nicole London of Rolling Hills, Calif., a wild-card entrant in the qualifying competition, a 6-4, 6-2 victory yesterday over Maureen Drake of Canada nourished her long-shot bid for a spot in the main draw. London learned her steady ground strokes from Robert Lansdorp, who once guided Tracy Austin, the 1979 and 1981 United States Open champion. London, who is scheduled to play in the United States Open junior tournament, which will begin during the second week of the Open, is attempting to qualify for the Open for the second time. Advertisement "I lost in the first round of qualifying last year," London said. "I was a little more nervous. I wasn't used to the pressure of a big tournament. Hopefully I'm getting better, more relaxed." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 28, 1992, on Page B00012 of the National edition with the headline: TENNIS; Gavaldon Is Paying the Price For Breaking From the Game.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »