Advertisement  It may not have seemed possible, but baseball might have struck the trifecta. In the course of one season, major league owners have come to challenge three common precepts long held inviolate not only by previous lords of baseball but also by the Federal court system. They have, in this fractured and frenzied summer, taken on the following: *The premise that owners cannot diminish a commissioner's power. *The premise that a commissioner's powers to act "in the best interest of baseball" are all-encompassing. *The premise that owners cannot fire a commissioner. A quick recap? In early June, Fay Vincent, the embattled commissioner, was approached by owners and the ruling body of management's Player Relations Committee and asked to cede the authority he holds in labor negotiations. Then, in July, the Chicago Cubs saw their veto of a proposed move to the National League West overturned by Vincent. The Cubs responded by suing Vincent, charging he had ignored the National League constitution and, therefore, overstepped his authority. Advertisement The first battle, between Vincent and the Player Relations Committee, ended in a frosty stalemate after a good deal of public bloodletting. The second fight, between Vincent and the Cubs, is still working its way through the Federal court system in Illinois, as the National League East club attempts to turn an initial victory -- a temporary injunction against realignment -- into a permanent triumph over the power of the baseball commissioner to act in the best interest of baseball as he deems fit. Advertisement The third premise under attack -- that owners cannot fire a commissioner -- is just starting to play out. That much was explosively illustrated Saturday with the revelation that the cold war between Vincent and about a dozen of the 28 owners grew hotter last week with a fiery exchange of letters and faxes. Vincent's battle to see through his four-and-a-half-year term more than likely will end up in the same place as the Cubs' suit -- the Federal judicial system. The Federal courts have to be aware of that. For baseball has visited before, when contentious clubs and commissioners got lost in a flap over their jigsaw puzzle of rules, regulations, traditions and turf wars. At the heart of all the arguments through the years is the Major League Agreement, which governs the relationship between the owners and the commissioner. Though owners and commissioners now more than ever disagree on the interpretations of this cumbersome document that binds them together, Federal judges have been known to cut to the core of its points pretty quickly. In 1977, for instance, Commissioner Bowie Kuhn's power to stop an action he deemed not in the best interest of baseball was upheld when Judge Frank McGarr of the United States District Court in Chicago ruled that Kuhn could prevent Charlie Finley, then the Oakland A's owner, from conducting a fire sale of his players.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "The questionable wisdom of this broad delegation of power is not before the court," McGarr wrote in his decision. "And what the parties intended was that the commissioner was to have jurisdiction to prevent any conduct destructive of the confidence in the integrity of baseball." The Major League Agreement grew out of a desire by the owners, in the wake of the 1919 White Sox scandal, to give a single person outside managment sufficient power to police and protect the game. The agreement actually came into being with the hiring of the first commissioner, Judge Kenesaw Mountain Landis, who took office in 1921. In its infancy, the document stated that decisions by the commissioner could not be challenged by clubs in court. In 1944, the owners modified the agreement so that baseball clubs could take a commissioner to court. They also imposed limits on the "best interests" powers. But 20 years later, the document was again modified, restoring and enhancing the original rules. Especially notable was the restoration of the provision that states that clubs waive any right to challenge, in court, a decision by the commissioner. Advertisement The current version not only addresses the powers of commissioners but the powers that shield commissioners from slings being hurled by club owners. Article Nine, the shield, if not the Bible, for commissioners, states, in part, that "no diminution of the compensation or the powers of the present or any succeeding commissioner shall be made during his term of office." It is that provision that sets commissioners apart from your typical chief executive officer. After all, how many C.E.O.'s are in position to discipline their own board of directors? Fire a commissioner? Since you can't be a little bit fired any more than you can be a little bit dead, being dismissed by owners would seem the ultimate diminution of powers, and baseball's rules say team owners can't do that. Once again, a court might have to say what the owners can or can't do. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 24, 1992, on Page C00007 of the National edition with the headline: ON BASEBALL; Team Owners Take A 3d Strike at Vincent.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »