Advertisement By SAM GOLDAPER Fred Carter and Mike Dunleavy are the latest names to surface in the search to fill the Knick coaching job. Their names came up yesterday in Chicago, where general managers, assistant coaches and scouts have congregated at the National Basketball Association's four-day predraft camp to watch some of the lesser college talent perform. Carter is one of the league's senior assistant coaches. After an eight-year professional career as an outstanding guard with the Baltimore Bullets, the Philadelphia 76ers and the Milwaukee Bucks, Carter was an assistant coach with the Atlanta Hawks, the Washington Bullets and the Chicago Bulls, before joining the 76ers two years ago as Coach Jimmy Lynam's top aide. ''I'm interested in the job, but I have not yet spoken to Al,'' Carter said yesterday by telephone from Chicago, referring to Al Bianchi, the Knicks' general manager. Dunleavy, Milwaukee's assistant coach, has also expressed interest in the position, which was left vacant by Rick Pitino's move to coach basketball at the University of Kentucky. Advertisement Dunleavy, a 6-foot-3-inch guard from Brooklyn, was often referred to as a ''coach on the court'' during his playing days at Nazareth High School and the University of South Carolina. He played for the 76ers, the Houston Rockets, the San Antonio Spurs and the Bucks before a back injury cut short his playing career. He has been Coach Del Harris's assistant for the last two seasons. Although Bianchi has said he will not comment on prospective candidates, nor deny or confirm reports regarding which candidates he has interviewed, there are reports that he favors someone who has played in the N.B.A. Advertisement In addition to Carter and Dunleavy, Phil Jackson, the former Knick player and current Chicago assistant coach, is interested in the position. But the reports from Chicago yesterday were that Jerry Krause, the Bulls' director of basketball operations, had refused to give Jackson permission to talk to Bianchi until after the June 27 college draft. That requirement was despite intervention by Doug Collins, the Bulls' coach, who wants Jackson to have a chance at the Knick job. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 9, 1989, on Page D00024 of the National edition with the headline: BASKETBALL; Carter and Dunleavy Hint at Knicks' Job.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »