After the N.F.L. produced not one, but two breathtaking comebacks with season-rattling implications, it was hard not to marvel at the quarterbacks who made them happen. Yes, both men got a lot of help. Eli Manning would not be king of a saved Giants season had Jason Pierre-Paul not blocked a field goal attempt in the final second that would have sent the Cowboys to overtime, and Tim Tebow would not be doing another victory/prayer lap had Matt Prater not kicked a 59-yarder to get the Broncos to overtime. But then, maybe those things happened precisely because of Manning and Tebow. Comebacks, you see, are all in the believing. This is what the Broncos and the Giants each have: a quarterback they totally, unfailingly, devotedly believe in. It’s the magic quality that the best ones have, the thing you can’t discover in a scouting combine or measure with statistics. Manning and Tebow might have nothing else in common other than their position, but they’ve got that. The Tebow comeback against the Bears was, of course, only the latest installment in a series, but this one was particularly preposterous. What has become clear, as Mark Kiszla writes in The Denver Post, is Tebow could do anything in the first three quarters — up to and including driving a motorcycle into the huddle — and his teammates would still believe they will win. There is no explanation for Tebow, with Les Carpenter writing on Yahoo.com that he could more easily explain the Northern Lights, and the trick is to stop looking for meaning and just enjoy the absurdity of it all.

Making it all the more entertaining — unless you’re a Bears fan — was the Bears’ rather colorful set of contributions to the comeback, with Marion Barber starring in that part of the drama. From the Chicago side of things, it was easy to believe it was a colossal choke, as Steve Rosenbloom of The Chicago Tribune does, and maintain that Tebow is not really the savior he is built up to be, which is a tack many of the Chicago players were still taking after the game, writes Alex Marvez on Foxsports.com. But yes, this is Tebow mania from the hurtin’ side, writes Rick Telander in The Chicago Sun-Times, and it stinks. The Giants’ comeback did lack the level of preposterousness of the Broncos’ partly because it featured an opponent, the Cowboys, specializing in such things these days, writes Randy Galloway in The Fort Worth Star-Telegram, and they are thankful at least that their kicker, Dan Bailey, wasn’t iced by his own coach this time. But it did nothing less than save the Giants’ season, writes Ohm Youngmisuk on ESPN.com, and led to a new round of appreciation for Manning, writes Pete Prisco on CBSSports.com. But for those paying attention, Manning has been about the only thing holding the Giants together this season, and Dave D’Alessandro writes in The Star-Ledger that the Giants never forget that. The twin comebacks in the N.F.L. provided a much needed respite from a weekend otherwise populated by some disturbing news, including baseball’s feel-good story about the National League most valuable player Ryan Braun given the water-bucket treatment with the news that he tested positive for a banned substance and faces a 50-game ban. Yes, he is protesting his innocence, which, Jeff Passan writes on Yahoo.com, won’t help him much with a public wary of such protestations. And his odds of winning an appeal are steep, writes Tom Haudricourt of The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. If he does turn up guilty, Jon Paul Morosi of Foxsports.com believes most valuable player voters should be given a do-over. If that weren’t bothersome enough, college basketball got into the act with a shameful brawl in the Cincinnati-Xavier game Saturday. It was, as Paul Daugherty writes in The Cincinnati Enquirer, a painful reminder of the all-to-pervasive attitude among young athletes that getting retribution for being disrespected is more important than anything else. Although Cincinnati Coach Matt Cronin did some tough talking about getting his players to understand the depth of their mistakes, the barely punitive suspensions handed out were as disgraceful as the brawl, writes Pat Forde on Yahoo.com. The University of Memphis didn’t have such a good time this weekend either, with the basketball team not only losing to Murray State but its public-address announcer forgetting that John Calipari is no longer the coach, but at least it lacked any violence. So then all eyes could turn to Sunday’s magical comebacks, and for a few hours to believe in the power of belief. Follow Leading Off on Twitter: twitter.com/zinsernyt
         The New York Times will report on the Giants and Jets throughout the season. You can also find links to coverage from around the league, tips for your fantasy football team and discussion with other football fans. 
			The content on the Fifth Down blog is moving to the pro football page on nytimes.com.Read more… 
			The Jets receiver became a critic of the game and its role in American society. But the decision to walk away was also personal.Read more… 
			John Idzik, the general manager of the Jets, will not retain Scott Cohen, the assistant general manager. Ari Nissim, another high-ranking executive, also will depart.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, answers questions from readers.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, will answer questions from readers.Read more… Follow Advertisement