Advertisement  AP With students and faculty demanding his removal as basketball coach at North Carolina State, an angry Jim Valvano said today that he was ready to leave if school officials thought it best. At the same time, Valvano denounced those who have connected him with a state investigation into charges of point-shaving at the university. ''I'm as angry as I've ever been in my life,'' Valvano said after arriving at Raleigh-Durham International Airport on a flight from New York. ''I am not implicated in any way, in any violations, from the start. I think it's time some of the blame be put where it belongs, on the people involved.'' Although Valvano has not been implicated in any point-shaving scheme, the school's student newspaper today called for an end to Valvano's ''blind leadership.'' North Carolina State is serving two years' National Collegiate Athletic Association probation for violations during Valvano's tenure. Advertisement Also today, there were reports that Valvano would coach in Italy next season for Philips Milan. Philips Milan executives denied the reports, while Valvano said, ''Dealing in the present is what my intention is, and there's no need to speculate about the future.'' Advertisement Valvano said he wanted to sit down with university officials as soon as possible. ''I am perfectly ready to accept what the university thinks is best,'' he said. Asked whether he would consider waiving a contract clause guaranteeing him $500,000 if he is dismissed without appropriate cause, Valvano said: ''Whatever is done is going to be fair and equitable to all parties. I consider the university my friend.'' ''I think what the coach and I do over the next few days, I won't comment on,'' the North Carolina State interim chancellor, Larry K. Monteith, said when asked if he would meet quickly with Valvano. ''I honestly don't feel any pressure,'' Monteith said when asked if he was under the gun to dismiss Valvano. ''People have a right to their opinions and to state their opinions. But that won't be how I make my decision - based on opinions - when I want facts.'' Valvano was returning to Raleigh to help the Wolfpack prepare for its final regular-season game, Sunday against Wake Forest. Valvano said he expected to coach the team at least through the Atlantic Coast Conference tournament this month. On Thursday, the state announced a full investigation into charges of point-shaving. Some allegations involve a Wolfpack game against Wake Forest, the team's traditional season-ending contest. Bill Dowdy of the North Carolina State Bureau of Investigations said the state inquiry would probably take ''a pretty long time.'' ABC News cited unnamed ''inside sources'' this week as saying that Charles Shackleford, a former North Carolina State player now with the Nets, and Robert Kramer, a New Jersey businessman, conspired with as many as three other players to hold down scores of four games for betting purposes in the 1987-88 season.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Tonight, ABC reported that it had learned from ''law-enforcement authorities'' that two Western Union cash transfers, each for $400, had been sent in March 1988 to Shackleford in Raleigh from a George Shackleford in Orange, N.J. The phone number given on the money orders, the report said, was that of a telephone pager assigned to Kramer's construction company, Statewide Rehab Inc. Advertisement Kramer said Thursday night that he had given Shackleford a total of $20,000 in 1988, much of it through Western Union. He said he had ''definitely not'' paid Shackleford to shave points but was giving him financial help so he would not have to leave school. Shackleford's lawyer and agent, Salvatore DiFazio of Bridgewater, N.J., has said his client never shaved points, although Shackleford has said he accepted $65,000 from two men while playing for the Wolfpack. Shackleford was arrested and charged Thursday night in Orange, N.J., and charged with possession of a small amount of marijuana, the authorities said. Newspaper editorials across North Carolina, including the one in the student paper, The Technician, pointed at a long list of problems at North Carolina State. In addition, a petition circulated among the faculty at the university called for Valvano's dismissal. The editorials and the petition had similar sentiments: even if Valvano didn't know about players selling athletic shoes and tickets - the N.C.A.A. violations that led to the team's two-year probation - or about Shackleford's financial dealings, he should have known. Valvano said the suggestions he should have known about misdeeds were absurd and were made by ''people who have never been in that position.'' The faculty petition was being circulated by Tom Honeycutt, a past chairman of the North Carolina State Faculty Senate. ''I think basically the faculty has had enough,'' Honeycutt said. ''We can't go forward until, essentially, we have a new basketball coach. We need a person that carries himself as a role model for these student athletes. And it seems there is more athlete here than student in this role model.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 3, 1990, on Page 1001043 of the National edition with the headline: North Carolina State Is Under Pressure to Remove Valvano.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »