Advertisement By DAVE ANDERSON Midway in the second quarter, with the Knicks having burst into a 56-47 lead, Patrick Ewing raised a clenched fist and Mark Jackson was whirling his right index finger. But as those two young Knicks hurried to the bench for a timeout, Trent Tucker confronted them. ''Don't be celebrating,'' Tucker said. Little by little, game by game, these young Knicks are learning more and more about how to compete and how to act in the National Basketball Association playoffs. If they had celebrated too early last night, they might not have been able to hold off Michael Jordan and the Bulls, 121-114. Instead, the Knicks narrowed the Bulls' lead to 3-2 in the four-of-seven-game Eastern Conference semifinal series, which will resume Friday night in Chicago. When the game ended, Ewing had reason to celebrate. He also had 32 points and 11 rebounds as well as the memory of an encouraging phone call Monday afternoon from Coach Rick Pitino. ''I thought Patrick looked a little down,'' Pitino said after last night's game. ''On the phone I told him, 'Don't you get down, big guy, you've carried us the entire season, you can't get down now.'' In order to free Ewing from the Bulls' defense, Pitino reminded the other Knicks to create more movement on offense. Advertisement ''Patrick's always the prime focus, but after movement,'' Pitino said after Monday's practice. ''If there's no movement, they can stop him. If we create movement, they won't stop him.'' Advertisement And so the Knicks' learning experience in the playoffs continued. So far they have learned to be more careful in their use of pronouns, brooms and big leads. They had as much as a 19-point lead, 96-77, last night after having wasted a 12-point lead in last week's opener. But now the Knicks must learn how to win in Chicago Stadium where they are 0-5 this campaign, including two losses over the weekend. After holding a 12-point lead with nearly 8 minutes remaining in the opener, the Knicks did let Game one get away in overtime. And with it, they also let get away the home-court advantage in the series. That's the sign of an inexperienced team that didn't understand that the playoffs are different, that a game that gets away in the playoffs is so much more important than a game that gets away during the regular season.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But last night the Knicks apparently remembered that 12-point lead that got away. And despite Jordan's 38 points, the Knicks didn't let this game get away. In the Knicks' learning experience, Mark Jackson obviously remembered the words that got away, meaning his brashness in alluding to himself as a ''great'' player who had been waiting for a ''great moment'' after making that half shot, half shot-put that stunned the Philadelphia 76ers in the first game of the opening series. After he missed a similar heave late in the opener of the Bulls' series, the boos erupted in the second game. Those boos have changed his choice of pronouns. ''We,'' he said with a smile after Monday's practice. ''We are going to do this collectively. We, we, we.'' In trying to defend Jackson in that controversy with the Knick fans, Pitino learned that it's better to ignore the boos. Advertisement ''It's my fault,'' the coach said Monday. ''I'm very sensitive.'' When the Knicks lost that opener to the Bulls, they also lost the opportunity to repeat their sweep of the 76ers in the first round that prompted Patrick Ewing to snatch a broom from a Spectrum worker and sweep the court. At the time Pitino tried to minimize the broom incident. ''Our guys are big kidders, big pranksters,'' he said then. ''No way were we making fun of the Sixers.'' But now the Knicks coach has acknowledged that in the exhilaration of the sweep of the Sixers, his players had not conducted themselves as gracious winners, especially with Charles Barkley stretched out near midcourt in exhaustion. ''I'm not condoning the broom, it's a lesson learned,'' Pitino said Monday. ''If we do things like the broom, we've got to admit it as a mistake and go from there.'' More than anything else, the Knicks may have learned that their 14-11 record at the end of the season is a better barometer of their progress than their 38-19 start. In retrospect, it appears that early this season the Knicks were winning as so many young teams do, without realizing just how good they were. Near the end of the season, when the Knicks were expected to win, they suddenly presumed they were better than they really were. But if the Knicks are to force a seventh game Sunday, they must learn the most important lesson of all: how to win a game in Chicago Stadium. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 17, 1989, on Page D00025 of the National edition with the headline: SPORTS OF THE TIMES; The Knicks' Learning Experience.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »