Advertisement By STEVEN CRIST Champagneforashley would probably have had to fall down to lose the DeWitt Clinton Handicap yesterday at Aqueduct, but he won it even more impressively than anyone expected. Now undefeated in five career starts by a combined 45 1/2 lengths, Champagneforashley proved himself a legitimate Kentucky Derby prospect with a sparkling victory. Despite carrying 126 pounds and standing nervously in the starting gate for seven minutes before the race, Champagneforashley crushed seven fellow New York-bred 3-year-olds by 12 1/2 lengths in the sizzling time of 1:21.56 for seven furlongs. Wood Memorial Next Champagneforashley, a Track Barron-Champagne Babe colt owned by Lions Head Farm and trained by Howie Tesher, will return for the Wood Memorial a week from today, then head for Kentucky. Advertisement Champagneforashley paid $2.40 for $2 to win yesterday as the heavy favorite. Coby Escapade won a four-way blanket finish for second, with The Professor a nose back in third. Advertisement The winner worked an additional furlong past the finish line and was hand-timed in 1:35 3/5 for the mile. He was clearly tiring, and Jacinto Vasquez had to crack him with the whip to keep him going, but Tesher said the bay-colored colt was still a race or two from his best.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ''I know he was fit to go seven-eighths today,'' Tesher said. ''I doubt if he was fit to go a mile and an eighth. If he comes out of this good and gets to the Derby, great. If not, he's a good horse and we have the rest of the year ahead of us.'' A Challenge Ahead Getting him from seven furlongs to a mile and a quarter in the next three weeks is the tough part. The winner's sire, Track Barron, had trouble winning beyond a mile and an eighth, the distance of the Wood, and Champagneforashley tired late while winning the Tampa Bay Derby last month in his only start around two turns. ''This horse has been doing it easily and never really has been tested,'' Vasquez said after the race. ''He can be rated. We'll test him at a mile and an eighth and see what happens.'' The winner's time appeared sensational, but a strong wind was blowing him down the backstretch, and the rest of the day's times were erratic. In yesterday's fifth race, undistinguished 3-year-old fillies covered a mile in a rapid 1:35.78. Half an hour later, older $100,000 claiming males, who should have run much faster, instead needed 1:36.07 to cover the same distance. The Clinton start was delayed seven minutes when Sportin' Jon broke his bridle and refused to be loaded. When the gates finally opened, amid jeering from impatient fans, Champagneforashley broke sharply and settled into third on the outside as The Professor and My Father Was dueled through a quarter-mile in 22.20. After a half-mile in 44.30, he drew away on the stretch turn, completed six furlongs in 1:08.67, and ran the final furlong in 12.89. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 14, 1990, on Page 1001038 of the National edition with the headline: HORSE RACING;   Champagneforashley Wins by 12 1/2.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »