Advertisement By MARY PILONAPRIL 25, 2014
 A senior executive at the company that oversees drug testing for the N.C.A.A., the N.F.L., the N.B.A., Major League Baseball and several other top sports organizations claimed in a lawsuit filed this week that she was fired after she voiced concerns about the handling of a football player’s positive drug test. Andrea Wickerham, a former vice president of the National Center for Drug Free Sport, said that the company improperly handled the July 2013 drug test of an N.F.L. player because it did not want to risk losing the league as a client. She said that after she brought her concerns to the company’s president, Frank Uryasz, she was fired, according to the complaint filed in Jackson County, Mo. In a statement on Friday, Uryasz adamantly denied the allegations and defended Drug Free Sport as “an ethical, values-based company.” “Drug Free Sport is being accused by a former, disgruntled and resentful employee of acts and events that simply did not occur,” Uryasz said. Advertisement According to the lawsuit, an unnamed certified specimen collector violated testing policies on an N.F.L. player’s drug test last summer. In September or October, the senior director for N.F.L. testing of Drug Free Sport came to Wickerham with concerns about the collector and said that he had also spoken with another executive at the company. That executive had not addressed the concerns because “he was afraid the company would lose the N.F.L. as a client,” the lawsuit stated. Advertisement When Wickerham reported the issue to Uryasz, she claims she was then excluded from the investigation. Through her lawyer, Kirk D. Holman, Wickerham declined to comment. In the past decade, Drug Free Sport has found a niche business model in doping detection. It works with most of the major sports leagues but has been criticized for uncovering few violations. Since the company began running the N.C.A.A.’s drug-testing program in 1999, the rate of positive tests has been no higher than 1 percent in any year — despite an N.C.A.A. survey of student-athletes that indicated at least one in five used marijuana, a banned substance.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Executives with Drug Free Sport have said that it does not rely on the rate of positive tests as an indicator of a program’s success and that its programs provide effective deterrents against drug use. The complaint said that Wickerham met with Uryasz in February and complained that she was no longer included in high-level company decisions and said “that she believed Uryasz wanted her gone from the company despite many years of loyal service.” On March 10, Uryasz said he was accepting her resignation even though she never submitted one, according to the complaint. Don Catlin, the former head of U.C.L.A.’s Olympic Analytical Lab, called the allegations in Wickerham’s complaint “very serious.” “The system needs to be very trustworthy from one end to another,” said Catlin, who oversaw the testing of many of Drug Free Sport’s urine samples when he was at U.C.L.A. “All complaints need to be fully investigated.” A trial-scheduling conference is set for Sept. 22. A version of this article appears in print on April 26, 2014, on Page D6 of the New York edition with the headline: In Suit, Ex-Employee Says Drug-Test Firm Mishandled Result.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »