Advertisement  GOLF Rain Scrambles Leader Board Rain left the first day of the L.P.G.A.'s $400,000 Lady Keystone Open in Hershey, Pa., inconclusive, with Nanci Bowen finishing the round yesterday with a five-under-par 67 and Laurel Kean at six under through 15 holes. The opening round of the 54-hole tournament was halted twice by thunderstorms for a total delay of almost four hours. The players who failed to finish their first rounds will start early today before the second round begins. Kean, who hasn't won in five years on the tour, had two eagles for a 30 on the back side of the 6,348-yard West Course of the Hershey Country Club. Bowen, who has missed the cut in 11 of her 12 L.P.G.A. appearances, had played just three holes when thunderstorms hit the course and forced a delay of nearly three hours. (AP) TENNIS  Washington Advances to Final MaliVai Washington of the United States moved into the final of the Manchester grass-court tournament in England with a comeback victory yesterday over Luis Herrera of Mexico, 6-7 (5-7), 6-1, 6-1. Washington's opponent in the title match will be Jacco Eltingh of the Netherlands, who beat Wally Masur of Australia, 6-2, 7-6 (7-3). Herrera used his speed and crisp volleying to take the first set in 53 minutes. But Washington, who is seeded fifth and who turns 23 years old today, had winning streaks of six and five games to wrap up the match 58 minutes later. (AP) Medvedev Staves Off Oncins: Andrei Medvedev of Ukraine fought off eight match points in the final set to defeat Jaime Oncins of Brazil, 1-6, 6-2, 7-6 (8-2), and advance to the semifinals of the Genoa International in Italy. Medvedev's next opponent will be Marcelo Filippini of Uruguay, who defeated Magnus Gustafsson of Sweden, 6-1, 6-4, in the quarterfinals. The other semifinal will match Guillermo Perez-Roldan of Argentina against the winner of the match today between Horst Skoff and Paolo Cane. Perez-Roldan advanced with a 7-5, 6-1 victory over Marcos Gorriz of Spain. (AP) McNeil Upsets Fernandez: Lori McNeil of the United States upset another American, Mary Joe Fernandez, 7-6 (7-4), 6-0, to reach the final of the Eastbourne grass-court tournament in England. McNeil will face the winner of the other semifinal between Linda Harvey-Wild and Rosalyn Fairbank-Nideffer. Rain halted their match with Harvey-Wild leading, 2-1, in the first set with a break of serve. Officials rescheduled the match for this morning with the winner facing McNeil this afternoon. The McNeil-Fernandez match was interrupted by light rain three times. (AP) CYCLING  Two Qualify for Olympics Tim Peddie and Jeanne Golay earned automatic Olympic team positions yesterday on the rainy and overcast final qualifying day at the United States Cycling Olympic trials and national championships in Altoona, Pa. Peddie, 22 years old, of Boulder, Colo., who has been racing in Spain since February, surprisingly emerged from a lead group of eight to win the 123-mile men's Olympic Trials race in 5 hours 12 minutes and 53 seconds. While Inga Thompson of Reno made a strong bid for her third Olympic team with a three-minute solo victory in the earlier 65-mile women's race, Golay outsprinted Sally Zack of Boulder, Colo., to finish second by one foot to earn her Olympic team position. (AP) We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 20, 1992, on Page 1001030 of the National edition with the headline: RESULTS PLUS.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »