The United States national team will face Italy in an exhibition game in February, according to Italy Coach Cesare Prandelli. Prandelli said in an interview with Gazzetta Dello Sport that he was planning to call up the rejuvenated Udinese striker Antonio Di Natale in February “for the game against the U.S.A. in February.” That game has not been announced by either federation. There is only one FIFA match date in February, the 29th. The game will almost certainly be played in Italy to accommodate the top players on each team, with Genoa as one possible site. United States Coach Jurgen Klinsmann has previously announced a roster for two friendlies in January, against Venezuela on Jan. 21 and against Panama on Jan. 25. That roster includes mainly M.L.S. players, who are in their off-season. Follow Andrew Das on Twitter. Goal, The New York Times soccer blog, will report on news and features from the world of soccer and around the Web.  Times editors and reporters will follow international tournaments and provide analysis of games. There will be interviews with players, coaches and notable soccer fans, as well as a weekly blog column by Red Bulls forward Jozy Altidore.  Readers can discuss Major League Soccer, foreign leagues and other issues with fellow soccer fans.
	 
			The Goal blog’s regular features, including live match analysis, player ratings from key matches, reader discussion, news and notes and more, can now be found on the soccer section front.Read more… 
			Crystal Palace won promotion to England’s Premier League on Monday. Now the club must retool under Manager Ian Holloway if it is to avoid relegation next season.Read more… 
			When congress opens, FIFA will be dealing with issues from President Sepp Blatter’s possible run for another term to accusations of vote-rigging among executive committee members.Read more… 
			Sacha Kljestan, who just won his second straight Belgian title with Anderlecht, could have a role to play for the United States in its exhibition against Belgium on Wednesday.Read more… 
			Alonso Hernandez, who plays in Mexico for Monterrey but has never represented the United States at any level, will get a chance to earn a place on the Under-20 World Cup team.Read more… Follow Advertisement