Advertisement  AP Ron Hextall, the Philadelphia Flyers' No. 1 goalie, was given a 12-game suspension by the National Hockey League today for his attack on Chris Chelios of the Montreal Canadiens in the sixth game of the teams' semifinal Stanley Cup playoff series. Jay Snider, the Flyers' president, said the club considered the penalty excessive and would appeal it to the N.H.L.'s board of governors, although he said he believed the appeal would have little effect. The league's executive vice president, Brian O'Neill, ordered the suspension after meeting last week with Hextall and the Flyers' general manager, Bob Clarke. ''Even though there was no injury involved, Hextall showed a complete disrespect for the league and the game by taking it upon himself to extract revenge,'' O'Neill said in a statement released by the N.H.L. ''His actions appeared to be a blatant and premeditated attack on an opponent.'' Advertisement Hextall was vacationing with his family today and unavailable for comment, said Rodger Gottlieb, a Flyers spokesman. Advertisement ''We feel that Ron's actions, while inappropriate, did not warrant a suspension of this length,'' Snider said at a news conference. Philadelphia trailed, 4-2, with 1 minute 37 seconds left in the game May 11 when Hextall threw down his stick, left the crease, skated toward Chelios and attacked him. Several fights then erupted on the ice as spectators threw beer cups and other debris from the stands. Match Penalty Hextall was assessed a match penalty for a deliberate attempt to injure, an infraction that calls for a review by O'Neill.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ''I don't care either way,'' Chelios said today before the Canadiens' practice for Tuesday's fifth game of the Stanley Cup final in Calgary, Alberta. ''It was an act of frustration. I didn't get injured on the play; he didn't hit me with his stick.'' Snider said he had ''very little hope'' the appeal would reduce the suspension. ''But at least it will give me the proper forum to bring it up and to challenge it,'' he said. ''I just don't understand the logic in applying a 12-game suspension to this and lesser suspensions to much more violent incidents.'' He cited a 10-game suspension last year for Minnesota's Dino Ciccarelli, who swung at Toronto's Luke Richardson three times with the stick. After the May 11 game, Hextall denied his attack was premeditated, but he did say he felt Chelios deserved it for elbowing the Flyers' Brian Propp in the first game of the series and knocking him unconscious. The suspension is the third-longest issued by O'Neill in the 12 years he has administered the N.H.L.'s on-ice discipline. The longest was the 20-game penalty given Tom Lysiak of the Chicago Blackhawks for flipping the skates from under the linesman Ron Foyt on Oct. 30, 1983. O'Neill sat down Wilf Paiement, then of the Colorado Rockies, for 15 games after an attack on the Detroit Red Wings' Dennis Polonich. The Flyers' Dave Brown received a 15-game suspension last year when he viciously cross-checked the Rangers' Tomas Sandstrom. An attack earlier this season by the Rangers' David Shaw on the Pittsburgh Penguins star Mario Lemieux brought a 12-game suspension, matching Hextall's. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 23, 1989, on Page B00007 of the National edition with the headline: N.H.L. Gives Hextall 12-Game Suspension for Attack on Chelios.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »