Advertisement  BASEBALL  Wichita State in Finals: Todd Dreifort drove in three runs, including the go-ahead run with a sixth-inning double, and Mike Wentworth scored three runs with a homer as Wichita State earned a berth in the College World Series championship game with a 12-9 victory yesterday over Florida State. Wichita State's opponent in Omaha today is Texas, which beat Louisiana State, 12-7, in the other semifinal Thursday.(AP)  CYCLING  Frenchman Increases Lead: Laurent Fignon of France outsprinted his top rivals in La Spezia to win the 20th stage of the Tour of Italy yesterday, increasing his overall lead. Two stages remain in the race.(AP)  GOLF  Rizzo Wins Second Round: Patti Rizzo posted a second round of 14 points for a total of 28 to win $4,000 in the $400,000 Pat Bradley International tournament yesterday in High Point, N.C. Myra Blackwelder won $2,000 for 26 points. Under the modified Stableford scoring, birdies are worth 3 points, pars score nothing and bogeys cost a point. After falling to 16 points with a bogey at her ninth hole, Rizzo sank an 8-foot putt for birdie at 10, and followed with an 18-footer for 22 points.(AP)  Player Leads Seniors: Heavy rain and strong wind knocked out power and blew down trees at the Senior Tournament Players Championship yesterday in Ponte Vedra, Fla. But that didn't stop Gary Player. The three-time Masters champion shot a six-under-par 66 on the 6,646-yard course at Sawgrass Valley for a one-stroke lead over Butch Baird.(AP)  HORSE RACING  Long Shots in Nassau: Forever Silver and Baltic Fox, the two longest shots in the field, led their five rivals on a fruitless chase through the slop to finish first and second in the $118,600 Nassau County Handicap yesterday at Belmont Park. Forever Silver, who paid $19.40 for $2 to win, scored by four lengths. Baltic Fox, a 14-1 shot, was second by three lengths over Brian's Time. Forever Silver, a 4-year-old Silver Buck colt trained by Stanley (Skippy) Shapoff, ran the mile and an eighth under Jacinto Vasquez in 1:46 4/5. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 10, 1989, on Page 1001049 of the National edition with the headline: RESULTS PLUS.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »