Advertisement  Special to the New York Times Opening statements were made today in the Federal racketeering trial of the sports agents Norby Walters and Lloyd Bloom. Walters, 58 years old, and Bloom, 29, are charged with racketeering, extortion, conspiracy and wire and mail fraud. They are accused of inducing college athletes to sign pro contracts in violation of National Collegiate Athletic Association rules and of threatening to harm some athletes who sought to back out of deals. Lawyers for Walters and Bloom did not deny that the agents had signed and post-dated the athletes' contracts before the students were eligible for professional representation. But the defense lawyers suggested that their clients had thought that promises of secrecy and financial incentives to college athletes were common practices among sports agents. ''Sports agents have for years signed up athletes before their collegiate eligibility has expired,'' Dan K. Webb, the attorney for Bloom, told the jury. Webb said that his cross-examination of the presidents of seven major universities would expose ''the sordid tale of scandal that has overtaken college sports in America.'' Advertisement He said that ''the same universities were playing games with and covering up academic ineligibility.'' Advertisement In his opening argument, United States Attorney Anton R. Valukas detailed charges that Walters and Bloom had promised athletes secrecy and had enticed them with cash, interest-free loans, automobiles, clothing, airline tickets and other benefits.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Each of the athletes involved in the case has agreed to testify, serve 250 hours of community service and pay back scholarship money. Robert Gold, the attorney for Walters, questioned the premise of the case, that the universities involved had been defrauded by a pattern of racketeering. Gold said that universities involved had not been penalized by the Big Ten Conference or the N.C.A.A. and asserted that they had not forfeited ''a single honor, championship or award.'' The universities did not ask for scholarship money to be returned, nor did they sue Bloom or Walters for damages, Gold said. If convicted, Walters and Bloom face forfeiture of their interests in their corporation, World Sports Entertainment, as well as jail terms and fines. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 7, 1989, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: Agents' Trial Begins In Racketeering Case.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »