Complaints about the quality of play in Italy’s Serie A, compared with that in the top leagues in England and Spain and — as of last week — Germany, are not uncommon. Complaints about it from members of Italy’s national team are much rarer. But that was just what one member of the Azzurri offered this week. Giuseppe Rossi, in an interview with The Associated Press, said the decline of Italian soccer had been its own fault. “Time changes and you have to change with time. You can’t stay with the same idea you had back then. (Italian football) hasn’t made this evolution yet,” said Rossi, who has four goals in 17 appearances for Italy’s national team and who recently wore the captain’s armband. “You’re always going to watch an English game or a Spanish game before Serie A and this is because they were both able to evolve.”  The New Jersey-born Rossi, who plays for Villarreal in Spain, has the standing to make those comments. And it would be tough to argue that all is lost, given that Italy did win the World Cup five years ago and Inter Milan won the Champions League last spring. But those kinds of triumphs have become rarer for Italian teams in the past decade, and any number of fans and critics have analyzed why that is the case. In the wake of Italy’s embarrassing exit from South Africa last summer, Rossi praised the new coach Cesare Prandelli for diagnosing the problem and for trying to do something about it. Prandelli called Italy’s most recent game, a 1-1 tie with Germany last month in which Rossi scored his team’s goal, its best performance since he took over last August. “We are still not on the same level as the German eleven,” Prandelli said, “but we are reducing the distance between the two sides.” Others agree. “Prandelli sees that teams that win now are teams that keep the ball and possession,” Rossi told the A.P. “He’s really trying to change it. So far it’s going well.” Corner kick: Are you seeing what Rossi is seeing? Is Italy adjusting to a new reality, and will Serie A play along? Or is the next Italian renaissance still years away? Goal, The New York Times soccer blog, will report on news and features from the world of soccer and around the Web.  Times editors and reporters will follow international tournaments and provide analysis of games. There will be interviews with players, coaches and notable soccer fans, as well as a weekly blog column by Red Bulls forward Jozy Altidore.  Readers can discuss Major League Soccer, foreign leagues and other issues with fellow soccer fans.
	 
			The Goal blog’s regular features, including live match analysis, player ratings from key matches, reader discussion, news and notes and more, can now be found on the soccer section front.Read more… 
			Crystal Palace won promotion to England’s Premier League on Monday. Now the club must retool under Manager Ian Holloway if it is to avoid relegation next season.Read more… 
			When congress opens, FIFA will be dealing with issues from President Sepp Blatter’s possible run for another term to accusations of vote-rigging among executive committee members.Read more… 
			Sacha Kljestan, who just won his second straight Belgian title with Anderlecht, could have a role to play for the United States in its exhibition against Belgium on Wednesday.Read more… 
			Alonso Hernandez, who plays in Mexico for Monterrey but has never represented the United States at any level, will get a chance to earn a place on the Under-20 World Cup team.Read more… Follow Advertisement