Advertisement By PAT BORZIAPRIL 25, 2014
 ST. PAUL —  Joey Hishon, a fourth-line center for the Colorado Avalanche, played only 6 minutes 31 seconds in a 2-1 loss to the Minnesota Wild on Thursday night in Game 4 of their first-round series. But those eight shifts, in Hishon’s N.H.L. debut, represented a significant victory. A first-round draft choice in 2010, Hishon sat out 22 months with a concussion after taking an elbow to the head in a junior league game on May 21, 2011. When Hishon returned in March 2013, playing for Lake Erie, Colorado’s American Hockey League affiliate, he incurred another concussion in his ninth game. Finally symptom-free this season, Hishon had 10 goals and 24 points in 50 games before being summoned Tuesday to join the injury-depleted Avalanche. Colorado, without its leading scorer Matt Duchene (lower body injury), needed help on the power play. The loss of defenseman Tyson Barrie after an illegal knee-on-knee hit from Matt Cooke in Game 3 left an opening on the second unit. “It’s something you dream of your entire life,” said Hishon, 22. “To get the opportunity to play in the N.H.L., it doesn’t matter what stage it’s on — regular season, playoffs.” Advertisement Last fall, a groin injury idled Hishon at training camp, so Patrick Roy, the team’s first-year coach, never saw him skate until practice last Wednesday. Advertisement Hishon is expected to remain in the lineup for Saturday night’s Game 5 at the Pepsi Center, with the series tied, 2-2. “You can see he has a lot of skills,” Roy said. “This is an opportunity for him. Joey’s dream is to play in the N.H.L. one day. Here it is. He’s having a chance to do it, and with our situation, why not?” It is not unusual for a rookie to play his first N.H.L. game in the postseason. According to the Elias Sports Bureau, Hishon is the eighth to do so in the last four years; the others have included Chris Kreider of the Rangers in 2011 and Brock Nelson of the Islanders in 2012. But few have taken a path like Hishon’s. He was the leading scorer for Team Canada at the 2009 World Under-18 Championships, but his draft stock fell when he missed about half the Ontario Hockey League season with a broken foot and sprained knee. The N.H.L.’s Central Scouting Bureau ranked him the 55th-best player, but the Avalanche coveted him and chose him 17th over all. He excelled for the O.H.L.’s Owen Sound Attack, scoring 37 goals and 87 points in 50 games to become a first-team All-Star. But in the first game of the Memorial Cup, Canada’s major junior round-robin championship, Brayden McNabb, the future Buffalo Sabres defenseman, dropped the 5-foot-10 Hishon with a vicious elbow to the side of the head as Hishon carried the puck through the neutral zone. Hishon wobbled a few strides before collapsing, blood dripping from his face. McNabb drew a game misconduct and a one-game suspension, and the play moved the O.H.L. to adopt a zero-tolerance policy on head blows. Ten months later, Hishon was still dealing with post-concussion symptoms. “It was head pressure for me, which lingered for a while,” Hishon said. “But it passed quickly after I got to the right doctors, and I’ve been good ever since.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Hockey friends recommended a chiropractor, and Hishon was treated by an exercise physiologist in Toronto for neck stiffness. Advertisement “My neck was a big problem,” Hishon said. “I still get a lot of treatment on my neck, and as long as I stay on top of that, things are great.” Hishon also saw Dr. Ted Carrick, a chiropractic neurologist with practices in Florida and Georgia whom Sidney Crosby sought in 2011 for nontraditional concussion relief. Carrick’s treatments include putting patients in a rotating chair called a GyroStim that is said to stimulate the brain. “You’re strapped in it, you stare at a dot in front of you, and just spin like you’re on a roller coaster,” Hishon said. “When I came out of it, the first few times I was feeling better already. It was really good.” The device has yet to be approved by the Food and Drug Administration, according to a disclaimer on the GyroStim website. PubMed.com, a website that serves as a clearing house for medical research, listed no clinical studies about GyroStim. The treatment is unorthodox. The Sports Medicine Concussion Program at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, directed by the specialist Dr. Micky Collins, does not use a GyroStim or any equipment like it, said Chuck Finder, a medical center spokesman. (Collins also treated Crosby.) The Mayo Clinic, which bought a GyroStim for its Aerospace Medicine and Vestibular Research laboratory in Arizona, uses it for space disorientation research and not concussion treatment, the Mayo spokesman Bryan L. Anderson said. “I never really got it explained to me completely,” Hishon said. “All I know is, it made me feel better.” When Hishon finally returned, it took him five games to score his first goal. Four games later, an illegal blow from Hamilton’s Joey Tenute caused another concussion. This time, the symptoms vanished by the end of the season. On Thursday, Hishon could not boost the sagging Colorado power play, which tied for fifth best in the league in the regular season but has tallied only one goal (an empty-netter) in 15 attempts in the series. Hishon’s only shot missed the net. But he finally made his N.H.L. debut, with his parents and sister in the crowd. Advertisement “I always had hope I would get better and be able to play the game and perform at a high level,” Hishon said. “I always believed in myself, and I guess that’s paid off now.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »