According to reports out of Sweden, the Red Bulls have signed defender Markus Holgersson, 26, on a free transfer from Helsingborg, his hometown club. The Red Bulls have made little news in the current off-season in Major League Soccer, other than shedding players. The list of the departed includes the veteran defender Carlos Mendes, who was lost to Columbus in the league’s re-entry draft for unsigned players. In the center of the defense, the club was left with Stephen Keel and Tim Ream. Ream has been the object of desire for several teams in the English Premier League, but Red Bulls officials said they had no plans to sell Ream (who recently married). He would be playing in his third season in M.L.S. should he return. The only other central “defender” would be the Mexican international Rafael Marquez, a player Coach Hans Backe and General Manager Erik Soler said they planned to use in midfield instead. Last season Holgersson helped Helsingborg become the first Swedish club to win the domestic triple: the league, Super Cup and Swedish Cup titles. On Monday the club said that Holgersson had declined its offer of a new contract and that he would be headed elsewhere. “It’s a good acquisition for us,” Backe told the Swedish Web site FotbollsExpressen.se. “I’ve had good scores on Mark by Jesper Jansson, and we need a strong physical back to our team. I talked to our general manager a while ago and he said then that Mark had accepted. It remains a visa and little else, but I expect him.” The Red Bulls, with Soler and Backe calling the shots, have been adept at finding players from northern Europe. That list includes: Joel Lindpere (Estonia), Teemu Tainio (Finland), Jan Gunnar Solli (Norway) and Brian Nielsen (Denmark). Nielsen was injured all of last season and did not play. The roster on the club’s Web site lists only 20 players. Follow JackBell on Twitter. Goal, The New York Times soccer blog, will report on news and features from the world of soccer and around the Web.  Times editors and reporters will follow international tournaments and provide analysis of games. There will be interviews with players, coaches and notable soccer fans, as well as a weekly blog column by Red Bulls forward Jozy Altidore.  Readers can discuss Major League Soccer, foreign leagues and other issues with fellow soccer fans.
	 
			The Goal blog’s regular features, including live match analysis, player ratings from key matches, reader discussion, news and notes and more, can now be found on the soccer section front.Read more… 
			Crystal Palace won promotion to England’s Premier League on Monday. Now the club must retool under Manager Ian Holloway if it is to avoid relegation next season.Read more… 
			When congress opens, FIFA will be dealing with issues from President Sepp Blatter’s possible run for another term to accusations of vote-rigging among executive committee members.Read more… 
			Sacha Kljestan, who just won his second straight Belgian title with Anderlecht, could have a role to play for the United States in its exhibition against Belgium on Wednesday.Read more… 
			Alonso Hernandez, who plays in Mexico for Monterrey but has never represented the United States at any level, will get a chance to earn a place on the Under-20 World Cup team.Read more… Follow Advertisement