W.T.A. No. 1 Caroline Wozniacki turned in an impeccable first round performance in her opening round match at the 2011 U.S. Open, charging to a 6-3, 6-1 victory over Spanish doubles specialist Nuria Llagostera Vives in 80 minutes. Though she had the luxury of facing the lowest-ranked woman to receive direct entry into the women’s singles draw, top-seeded Wozniacki’s visibly different strategy was impressive. Abandoning the retreiving, moonballing tactics that have won her so many matches (as recently as last week in New Haven) and brought her to the top of the W.T.A. rankings, Wozniacki asserted herself early in points against Llagostera Vives. Woznaicki, who often wins matches with a single-digit winner tally, landed 22 winners in the match.  More tellingly, the normally defensive Wozniacki found tremendous success with her volleys throughout the match, winning 14 of 17 points that she finished at the net of the Arthur Ashe Stadium court. Though her offensive mindset was successful against the 125th-ranked Llagostera Vives, the real test of Wozniacki’s new game plan will come against tougher competition, against which she might be tempted to revert back to the safe, comfortable style that she has used for much of her career.  Journalists from The New York Times and The International Herald Tribune (along with a few dedicated fans) are following the Grand Slam tournaments, on and off the court. They will provide updates, insights, links and analysis while setting the scene from the stands as well as the press room. 
			This blog’s regular features, including live tournament analysis, news and notes from Christopher Clarey, Ben Rothenberg and others, and other coverage, can now be found on the tennis section front.Read more… 
			Venus Williams, ranked No. 63, beat No. 2 Victoria Azarenka in Tokyo on Tuesday, her first win over a player in the top two since 2009.Read more… 
			The United States learned on Wednesday that it would host a first-round tie with Britain for the 2014 Davis Cup.Read more… 
			According to one celebrity marketing index, Andy Murray is the most appealing of the so-called Big Four in men’s tennis. Read more… 
			Sloane Stephens walked the runway Thursday night in the Just Dance With Boy Meets Girl fashion show, modeling the designs of Stacy Igel.Read more… Advertisement