Advertisement By SAM GOLDAPER No matter how the Sacramento Kings use the first pick in tonight's National Basketball Association draft, a share of the spotlight will belong to the Chicago Bulls. The Bulls, who already had two first-round selections, the Nets' 6th pick and their own 20th choice, added a third last night in a trade with the Seattle SuperSonics. Chicago, which reached the Eastern Conference final, sent Brad Sellers, a 7-foot forward, to the Sonics for the 18th pick. Seattle retained the 17th pick. ''We feel that the 18th pick will give us some options that will center our team,'' said Jerry Krause, the Bulls' vice president of basketball operations. Seller, the Bulls' draft choice in 1986, averaged 7.3 points a game last season, playing 80 games and starting 25. The Bulls are expected to use the sixth pick, which they got in the Orlando Woolridge deal, for a power forward, and the next two picks to strengthen their backcourt. Before the Bulls made the only trade yesterday, rumors continued to circulate that the Kings would select Pervis Ellison of Louisville. Advertisement ''Jack McCloskey heard it from another general manager,'' said Stan Novack, the Detroit Pistons' director of scouting, relaying the word yesterday from his club's general manager. Al Bianchi, the Knicks' general manager, heard a similar report from another general manager. Advertisement The Kings have declined to say how they will use their pick. The guessing game has been in progress since Sacramento won the lottery May 21, and has included Glen Rice of Michigan, Stacey King of Oklahoma, Danny Ferry of Duke and now the 6-foot-9 1/2-inch Ellison. Gossiping and Waiting  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ''I can't believe they're going to take Ellison,'' Novack said. ''If we had the pick, it would be Danny Ferry. If the report is true, I guess they felt they needed a power player more than taking the best all-around player in the draft.'' When the general managers were not guessing, they were discussing trades and watching tapes of players. ''Our job is easy,'' said Wayne Embry, the Cleveland Cavaliers' general manager. ''With the 25th pick, you don't worry about the top players. Positions don't count much either. Attention is focused on finding a player who can make your team. There is no sense trying to figure out how the draft will go. It's never factual because the general managers don't always tell the truth.'' But that did not stop Donnie Walsh, the Indiana Pacer general manager, who has the seventh pick, from trying to find out what Bill Russell, his counterpart with the Kings, would do. ''I called up Bill and asked him what he was going to do,'' Walsh said. ''I told him he was driving us all crazy.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on June 27, 1989, on Page B00012 of the National edition with the headline: Trade of Sellers Gives Bulls 3 First-Round Picks.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »