Advertisement Supported by Nets 101, Raptors 97 By Andrew Keh Paul Pierce sank a 3-pointer with 1 minute 14 seconds remaining in the game Monday night and spent the next several seconds skipping deliberately back to the Nets’ bench — the whole time spinning clockwise with his right hand in the air — as fans at Barclays Center built a wall of noise around him. It was the pivotal play in a 101-97 victory over the Toronto Raptors, which gave the Nets a precious three-point lead, and the reaction — the noise, the celebration, the posturing — was a clear sign that the postseason and its high-stakes atmosphere this team is supposedly built to endure is sitting upon the horizon.  “It was unbelievable, man,” Pierce said about crowd’s reaction inside the arena, which has never distinguished itself as a daunting environment to visit. “Now we know,” he added. “You Brooklyn fans, you can’t go below that anymore. That’s the expectations. It was a playoff atmosphere.” Coach Jason Kidd insisted the contest was no different from any other one — telling reporters that there are 82 games in a season has become a favorite, evasive maneuver of his — but by all accounts inside the locker room, it was a victory of huge significance.  The Nets moved to within three games of the Raptors for the lead in the Atlantic Division. Winning the division will still represent a tall task for the Nets, who have 20 games left. In their own final, 20 games, the Raptors will play 14 against teams that have losing records. And Toronto holds a comfortable tiebreaker advantages. The division title nevertheless would be a worthwhile goal to pursue. The winner is guaranteed at least a No. 4 seed, which would seem to represent a considerable advantage within the top-heavy Eastern Conference. “It was very important for both teams, and I think you could sense that,” said Deron Williams, who finished with 18 points and 5 assists. “We need to finish well at home, just to show people we can play at home and they don’t want to see us here.” Williams praised the way his teammates stepped up amid the club’s revived injury concerns.   Kevin Garnett missed his sixth straight game with a sore back. Kidd thought Garnett would play until about an hour before the game when Garnett’s back tightened up. Garnett left the arena at halftime, gingerly getting into the back seat of a car waiting inside an area loading dock. It was an unexpected setback, as the Nets were already without Andrei Kirilenko, who sprained his right ankle on Sunday. Without the two big men, the Nets looked lost at first defending Toronto’s pick-and-roll and they quickly fell to a 12-point deficit in the first half. But through a succession of stirring moments, the Nets and their fans came to life. With 2:02 left in the second quarter, Mason Plumlee finished a two-handed, put-back dunk on a missed floater by Williams that sent a shock wave through the stands and cut the Raptors’ lead to 3. Alan Anderson’s corner 3-pointer with 21 seconds left then sliced the deficit to a point before halftime. Halfway through the third quarter, the Nets went on a 14-0 run that included four 3-pointers. The last one spurred a 20-second timeout from the Raptors and another burst of noise from the announced crowd of 17,351. The noise was a notable development, as it is not a given in the building from night to night. It kept getting louder. After Pierce’s late 3-pointer, the Raptors crept back to within a point. But Shaun Livingston (18 points) poked the ball away from Terrance Ross with 25 seconds to play, and Pierce gathered the loose ball, effectively sealing the Nets’ win. Kidd said before the game that he was not expecting Pierce to play. He banged his right shoulder during the win over the Sacramento Kings on Sunday and was forced to leave the game before even the first quarter was through.  “This was one of our biggest games of the year — division rival, a lot of the line tonight,” Pierce said. “You always can pen me in those types of games.” It was clear how much it mattered. After corralling the loose ball, Pierce held it like a prize as he sauntered down the sideline, high-fiving a fan at midcourt who had leaned into the playing area. REBOUNDS The House of Representatives of the Philippines approved a bill Monday to grant Filipino citizenship to Andray Blatche, a Nets backup center. Blatche, 27, agreed in January to take part in the unusual move as part of an effort to have him eligible to represent the country at the FIBA World Championships this summer in Spain. A similar bill still needs to make it through the Senate of the Philippines before it can then be sent to President Benigno Aquino III for final approval. Blatche is from Syracuse and has never been to the Philippines.     Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS