Advertisement Supported by On Pro Basketball By Michael Powell Perhaps James L. Dolan has a slyly nasty sense of humor.  He charges $160 for two tickets that allow you to sit two-thirds of the way up the mountain wall of the Garden. He serves $10.50 beers and demands that you root for a soporific Knicks team whose so-called playoff run is based on the fact that it plays in an embarrassing multicar pileup of a division. And now, just as you’re ready to join your fellow fans at a planned anti-Dolan rally this week outside the Castle Frankenstein known as Madison Square Garden, waving pitchforks and rending season-ticket renewal envelopes, Dolan pushes the lanky Zen master known as Phil Jackson onto the parapets.  And with the rest of the peasants, you lay down the pitchfork and douse the torch. Because Jackson possesses more championship rings than he has fingers, and he’s not likely to disappear into the mysterious and brooding silence of Castle Dolan. Dolan, the Knicks’ owner, may have the management attention span of a hummingbird in mating season, and the temperament of an irascible great-uncle, hiring and firing as if dictated by seasonal disorder.  But give him credit for this much: He has seen the horror that is his Knicks organization in 2013-14 and tossed down gobs of money to import the Zen master. And the Buddha willing, if Dolan can leave him alone, this deeply competitive import could give the Knicks their best shot at somehow, someday playing meaningful June basketball. Or Dolan could kick him to the Seventh Avenue curb in a couple of years, leaving him to count his gold while he waits for a cab to the airport. This is the curse of Knicks fandom. Any sprout of optimism takes root in the mulch of deep pessimism. Dolan adores going long on Hall of Famers. Lenny Wilkens, Larry Brown, Isiah Thomas — all coached here before tumbling down the backstairs of the Garden. Donnie Walsh landed at La Guardia as one of the most respected hoops hands in the N.B.A.; he lasted a few years before he returned to Indiana, where, in peace and quiet, he quickly helped fashion a championship contender. Still, who could complain at having Phil Jackson back in the fold? On a most sentimental level, he’s a reminder of a more accessible Knicks team and time. When I could see Jackson loping up Broadway looking like a particularly tall and shaggy member of the Band; when I sat on the crosstown bus chatting with the backup center John Gianelli; and when the sainted Earl the Pearl strolled into the New Yorker Bookshop accompanied by a woman so unutterably foxy as to render me, the clerk, mute. Whatever.  I understand many sensible sorts view Dolan as a reverse alchemist, with an unfailing ability to convert gold to dross. But there’s a lot of silliness in the commentary of the last few days, the writers and talk-radio yammerers who portray Jackson as the Slacker Coach, the beach hermit of Playa del Rey. He won’t put in the time. He can’t name half the players in the N.B.A. He’ll pass long summer days snoozing on the porch of his Montana ranch rather than studying P.E.R. and price points, or studying that riveting tape of the Wizards-Knicks in late December. F’real? I have no idea whether Jackson can manipulate luxury caps like a maestro on the Wurlitzer. But he could hire a good general manager, and any number of pasty-faced millennials in Converse sneakers, jeans and plaid shirts who will happily stay up into the wee hours running fast-break equations. As for Jackson, only Pat Riley was his equal at understanding and manipulating the animal ache of the great star, and that’s not a bad place to begin in constructing an N.B.A. team.  It’s too easy to invoke Michael Jordan/Scottie Pippen, Kobe Bryant/Shaq and assert any dude in a suit could have won 11 championships.  Jackson constructed a good portion of his championship houses out of ordinary timber. It was a steady march of Bill Wennington, John Paxson, Derek Fisher, Robert Horry. Remember Jason Caffey? I don’t either. He was the first man off the bench in the Bulls’ 1996-97 championship season. This isn’t to imply I’ve taken great gulps of the Kool-Aid, not the least because it goes for $40 a pitcher at the Garden. But Jackson has earned at least some immunity to naysaying.  There’s a practical side, too. Dolan’s ego appears as vast as that of the average desert potentate. This precludes choosing the path favored by sensible franchises, which favor the methodical, analytical and patient. You say hire Sam Presti, the genius of the Oklahoma City Thunder, or Daryl Morey, the savant building the Houston Rockets into a sleek jet of a franchise?  Uh-huh. Dolan eats those boy geniuses like bowls of cereal. Hire a hotshot, and he will arrive at West 33rd Street, be herded into that aging cargo elevator and ride into the bowels of the Garden. Within weeks, Dolan will disappear him, stuff him into a closet. Or, in fairness, because Dolan likes new toys, he might listen to said hotshot for a year. Then he’ll stuff him into a closet. Understand that the Knicks under Dolan have been pitch-perfect losers. Very few spend so much money to do it so badly. They hire a charming and game star, Amar’e Stoudemire, too close to the expiration date on his knees. They sign home-wreckers like J. R. Smith to absurdly long contracts. They turn seemingly talented young fellows like Iman Shumpert into single-digit scoring ciphers. As the former N.B.A. commissioner David Stern once said of this team, “They’re not a model of intelligent management.” No, they are not.  So perhaps Dolan knows himself. He’s at his best when he pays so much, hiring a celebrity so big that even Dolan is afraid to mess with him. With luck, Jackson will hire a good general manager and a smart young coach — Mike Woodson, enjoy a couple of more steak dinners on Dolan — and take this team quickly down to its studs. Or he might try to turn Carmelo Anthony into a triangle-offense star, which could be only a little bit more difficult than turning dross into gold. With luck, we might get two to three years of entertaining, diverting hoops, as a legendary N.B.A. coach turns to late-career team building. And if in the end, that crazy old uncle comes wandering in and fires everyone in sight, well, chant “Nam myoho renge kyo,” and count your well-earned gold, Phil. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS