Advertisement  TONYA and Greg Grant grew up near basketball courts. They had a backboard in their backyard, and their grandmother lived next to the courts on Walnut Street in Trenton. This was a good thing. It meant there was always some family member around to calm things down. ''It would always be elbows, elbows, elbows,'' said Tonya of the games against her brother, formerly a star with Trenton State and now a rookie point guard with the Phoenix Suns. Otherwise, as siblings go, she said she and her brother were close, which is good, considering his achievements and reputation. ''I think I have to live up to other people's expectations when it comes to my brother,'' Tonya said. ''His having done well makes me want to lift up my game also.'' That she has done. In the process, the 6-foot-1-inch senior center has helped St. Peter's to a 21-5 record, 7-2 in the Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference. Advertisement This season (through Feb. 27), Tonya ranked first in the conference in shooting percentage (.613), rebounding (252 rebounds or 10.1 a game), scoring average (26 points) and total points (650). She has broken six school records (granted, three of them were her own), and should end her college career with more than 2,000 points. Advertisement She ranks in the top five in average points per game and shooting percentage in the N.C.A.A.'s Division I. It has been a job just keeping track.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ''It is difficult, believe me,'' said Coach Mike Granelli. ''Statistically, there's no one that can approach her.'' ''Her record in shooting percentage just destroys the previous mark; I don't even think we kept it,'' Granelli said, adding that he figures it could not have been over 50 percent. ''We'll keep it from now on.'' Two keys to Tonya's success are speed and finesse, which allow her to move out to shooting forward, creating mismatches. Her 5-7 brother taught her something about size: Greg used to block her shots. ''I knew by playing him that size didn't mean anything,'' she said. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 5, 1990, on Page C00002 of the National edition with the headline: SPORTS WORLD SPECIALS: BASKETBALL;   Home-Court Advantage.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »