Advertisement By KELLEY McMILLANMARCH 12, 2014
 LENZERHEIDE, Switzerland —  Three weeks after Ted Ligety of the United States won gold in the giant slalom at the Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia, he notched another first: a top-three finish in the downhill. On Wednesday, at the World Cup finals here, Ligety, 29, tied for second with Christof Innerhofer, 29, of Italy with a time of 1 minute 30.10 seconds, 11-hundredths of a second behind the winner, 23-year-old Matthias Mayer of Austria. Travis Ganong and Bode Miller of the United States finished sixth and eighth. “This is a hill where I know I have a chance and that suits my technique well, and I was able to capitalize on that,” Ligety said. The racecourse was steep and technical, featuring more turns than a typical downhill and favoring skiers like Ligety, who are able to build and maintain speed through each bend. Six of the 26 skiers did not finish, crashing out or missing gates. Advertisement Ligety’s downhill podium finish indicates that he is extending his ability beyond the giant slalom, his specialty, and into other disciplines, which is important if he is to have a shot at the overall title, one of ski racing’s top honors and an accolade he wants to win. Advertisement The overall title measures a racer’s success in all disciplines over a season. To win it, a racer must dominate at least two events, usually either the speed disciplines — downhill and super-G — or the technical events, slalom and giant slalom.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. At the moment, Ligety has mastered only giant slalom. He is third in the overall standings, more than 200 points behind Aksel Lund Svindal, who placed in the top three in 7 of 14 World Cup speed events this season and leads the overall standings by 41 points over Marcel Hirscher, who landed on the podium in 11 of 15 technical races. Ligety, who won four of seven giant slalom races this season, has struggled to be competitive in the fight for the overall title because he has not consistently scored points in an event other than giant slalom. But Ligety did find another sweet spot this season: the super combined, which features one downhill run and one leg of slalom. In January, he scored his first World Cup victory in a discipline other than giant slalom, winning the super combined in Wengen, Switzerland. Just over a week later, he finished second in the discipline in Kitzbühel, Austria. Ligety is fighting for his fifth giant slalom title and trails Hirscher by 50 points in the standings. That means Ligety must win Saturday’s giant slalom race and Hirscher must place no higher than fourth for Ligety to take the championship. A version of this article appears in print on March 13, 2014, on Page B19 of the New York edition with the headline: Ligety Strong in Downhill.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »