Advertisement By ALEX YANNIS and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES The Islanders are last in the Patrick Division, but first when it comes to ending unbeaten home streaks built by the two contenders who are their rivals in this area. They ended the Rangers' streak at Madison Square Garden last Friday night and did the same thing to the Devils tonight at Byrne Meadowlands Arena. Playing cautiously and with discipline, the Islanders took advantage of mistakes by the Devils and posted a 6-3 triumph that left New Jersey with its first loss in nine home games after seven victories and a tie. Perhaps the biggest mistake by the Devils (9-6-1 over all) tonight was getting caught with too many men on the ice late in the third period. The infraction allowed the Islanders to break a 3-3 deadlock on their manpower advantage. 'It Happens in Life' "It was no one's fault," Coach John Cunniff of the Devils said about the bench minor that proved costly to his team. "It happens in life. It's like you go down the street and you have the green light and someone runs a red light." Advertisement The two-minute penalty was assesssed when Claude Lemieux of the Devils was hit by the puck as he headed off at 13 minutes 6 seconds of the third period. Nineteen seconds after the penalty was called, Pat Flatley got his second power-play goal of the game for the Islanders (6-10-0). Advertisement The Islanders were so disciplined defensively they were never outnumbered in their zone in front of Glenn Healy, who made 27 saves. He was in the nets for the 4-3 triumph over Toronto on Tuesday night at Nassau Coliseum. It appeared that everything the Islanders tried worked tonight. They scored the only goal in the first period despite taking only three shots at Sean Burke, who made 22 saves. "I don't think we took them lightly by any means," Burke said of the Devils, who demolished the Islanders by 8-1 in the first meeting between the teams.<>  <>  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Flatley scored the game's first goal on the Islanders' first manpower advantage. It came at 4:28 on a deflection of a Pat LaFontaine shot. After playing a flawless game in the first 20 minutes in turning aside all 13 shots he faced, Healy made his first mistake 2:22 after the first intermission and it proved costly. Healy allowed Lemieux's shot from near his blue line to slide between his pads and trickle into his goal. Bruce Driver gave the Devils a 2-1 lead with his third goal just over two minutes later, but LaFontaine tied it for the Islanders with his 10th of the season at 6:21.  Bill Berg regained the lead for the Islanders 3:32 into the third period, but Al Stewart of the Devils matched it with a goal 26 seconds later. The Islanders were the better team after Stewart's goal and capitalized on the bench minor by the Devils, then secured the victory with LaFontaine's second goal of the night at 16:11 and Brent Sutter's sixth of the season with 1:22 left. GRONDSTRAND CALLED UP The Islanders promoted Jari Gronstrand for the first time this season from their top affiliate in the minor leagues, Capital District of the American Hockey League. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 8, 1990, on Page D00024 of the National edition with the headline: PRO HOCKEY; Islanders Treat Devils The Same as Rangers.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »