Advertisement By PHIL BERGER It's not as though he is the North American Boxing Federation champion. Or the ESPN champion. Or Stroh's Beer champion. Evander Holyfield is the undisputed heavyweight champion of the world, the standard bearer of boxing's three major governing bodies. Remember what that used to mean? Once upon a time the heavyweight champion was thought of as a combination of Hercules and Albert Schweitzer, a hulk with a heart. At 6 feet 2 1/2 inches and 208 pounds, Holyfield not only has the sort of contoured build that makes the average man envious, but also in an era when fighters wear sequined robes and routinely talk trash, carries himself with dignity outside the ring. As he prepares for the first defense of his title, against George Foreman on Friday in Atlantic City, Holyfield is undefeated in 25 fights, 21 of which he has won by knockout, and would seem to be just the sort to be accorded the respect a heavyweight champion used to get. Advertisement Yet a few weeks ago, as he sweated through his third workout of the day -- a weight-training session at a gym in a Houston mall -- a stranger stepped up to him and said: "I like you, Holyfield, but Tyson is going to kill you." Advertisement The unsolicited opinion followed the victory Mike Tyson scored, with the intervention of Referee Richard Steele, over Donovan (Razor) Ruddock last month. For days afterward, Holyfield kept hearing the same harsh assessment of his chances against Tyson from people who knew him barely or not at all. "It happens to me all the time -- still," said Holyfield. "I don't get mad. It's a matter of opinion." 'There's Always Been Something' So it goes with this 28-year-old champion whose career, like Roger Maris's 61 home run season, seems to come with asterisks. "If you go back through my life, it's always been something," said Holyfield. ' "Holyfield's too small.' 'Holyfield's too nice to be a winner.' 'Tyson'll whup him.' This or that, always something." When he knocked out James (Buster) Douglas in three rounds last October to win the heavyweight title, critics ignored the savvy feint he used to bait Douglas's missed uppercut and the crackling knockout blow with which he countered it. Never mind the nifty pyrotechnics. What they dwelled on was a Douglas so porcine as to be a punch line in comedy routines and a mitigating factor in Holyfield's triumph. Holyfield has become so accustomed to reservations about his legitimacy that when his hometown of Atlanta wanted to celebrate his heavyweight title, the fighter had an eerie thought: what if they gave a parade and nobody came. "I didn't want to be embarrassed," said Holyfield. "See, I was disappointed with the reaction there when I won the cruiserweight title." Advertisement In July 1986, in only his 12th professional match, Holyfield won in a decision over the World Boxing Association champion, Dwight Muhammad Qawi, in a 15-round bout so grueling that Holyfield had to be hospitalized afterward. "In Atlanta," recalled Holyfield, "it was like, 'Cruiserweight title? No big deal.' " The heavyweight title, it turned out, counted for a bit more in Atlanta, much to Holyfield's relief. "Everybody came out," Holyfield said of the parade that eventually took place. "It was great because they gave it on a work day, a Thursday, and it wasn't really a beautiful day. I rode with my mother in an open limo through downtown Atlanta. So many people were there, and we ended up at City Hall." That was an antidote, for sure, to the more immediate reaction he had when he beat Douglas. He remembers the joy of well-wishers who flocked to his dressing room afterward, and the strangely empty feeling he had. "Everybody's gone," said Holyfield. "You're in the room by yourself, thinking, 'Where's my happiness?' Sure, I made a lot a money, but money isn't happiness." Holyfield earned more than $8 million for fighting Douglas. In the weeks that followed, he vacationed in Jamaica and Aruba where, in reflecting on his victory over Douglas, he began to experience the pleasure absent the night it happened. "You sit and relax and think about what you've done," said Holyfield. "When I was in the midst of it, I wasn't having fun. But on the beach, that's when the joy comes back in."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. As champion, he made a cameo appearance on a television situation comedy, "Fresh Prince of Bel Air," and signed endorsement deals with Coca-Cola and Burger King. But he also experienced the darker side of his newly gained celebrity. His divorce from his wife, Paulette, which is pending, became more public, particularly in and around Fairburn, Ga. That's where Holyfield's six-bedroom house on 104 acres adjoins the four-bedroom house on three acres occupied by his wife and four children: Evander Jr., 6; Ashley, 5; Ebonne, 3; and Ewin, 9 months. But that was only part of it. The Pressure of the Title Advertisement "People, if you're not doing something for them, you're going to be a bad guy," said Holyfield. "You realize you can't please everybody. If you're signing autographs and you've got to leave: 'Hey, why can't you sign mine?' People ask for donations to build a building, to buy a car. 'I heard you help people. I need help.' People don't realize I can't help everybody." His sudden hair loss was, he suspects, a result of the pressure of being champion, and he took some encouragement from the fact that his nemesis, Tyson, underwent the same problem soon after winning the title. Those who know him well say that more than most boxers, Holyfield is sensitive. When Showtime, which had been Holyfield's pay cable network of choice in leaner days, was forced into a bidding war with Home Box Office-TVKO for pay-per-view rights to the Foreman bout, Holyfield got involved in the negotiations because of the loyalty he felt to Jay Larkin, a Showtime executive. "HBO had made an offer significantly richer than ours, and I figured that was the end of it," Larkin said. "But then I hear, 'Evander wants to talk to you.' Evander called and told me he was going to raise the price for HBO to pay. He says to me, 'If I get that money, I'll have to take the deal. If it's 10 cents short, I'm staying with Showtime. Showtime is my family.' We had an understanding that if Showtime came within a certain percentage of HBO's best bid, he would stay with us. "The next day was the day before Thanksgiving, and Evander got me by phone in Nantucket, Mass., to tell me HBO didn't bat an eye at his price. I told him: 'Whoever you're fighting, we'll be cheering for you. Don't worry. It's not going to change how I feel about you as a friend.' " Holyfield is guaranteed $20 million for fighting Foreman, who is guaranteed $12.5 million. But in a way the champion is in a no-win situation against a 42-year-old man who makes jokes about his eating binges. While Foreman's happy-go-lucky fat man is a caricature created by big George himself to hype the fight, a residual effect is to undermine how the public is bound to perceive any victory by Holyfield. Is it farfetched to imagine the morning after Holyfield beats Foreman -- if he does -- hearing the by-now familiar line, "Yeah, but what would he do against Tyson?" But that is for the future. For now, he does what he must: multiworkout training sessions that often leave him stooped over, eyes closed with fatigue, and grimacing in pain. Advertisement On a day not long ago, Holyfield had a morning gym workout that included six rounds of sparring. Then in midafternoon, Tim Hallmark, his fitness specialist, put him through a cardiovascular session in which he leaped sideways over coffin-shaped boxes -- first on two legs and then from one leg to the other -- and then slipped into a harness in which he threw punches while strapped to a resistance machine called a Vertimax. That was followed by several minutes in a device called the Reaction Machine, which has an overhead boom that Hallmark can send hurtling at the fighter, thereby encouraging him to move his head and shoulders as he punches. In the early evening, Holyfield's weight-training work consisted of hefting barbells and dumbbells, and straining against conventional resistance machines. Few fighters are willing to endure the industrial-strength training Holyfield does, and sometimes he himself wonders, in pain and exhaustion, is it worth it? A hint of the energy expended comes through a remarkable aside Holyfield related while talking about his Caribbean holiday. Although it was a time of nearly total relaxation and indulgence, Holyfield lost weight, he said, because he was eating "just three meals a day." "When I'm in training, I eat six meals a day," said Holyfield. "They're like fuel to me." Work. Hard work. That is the recurring motif in Holyfield's account of his rise in the boxing business. Unlike many other fighters, he does not appear to stoke his psyche with hatred of the other man. Douglas? He actually felt sorry for him ("the first time I ever felt sorry for an opponent") before their fight at the weigh-in that exposed how little work the champion had done. Foreman? "He's real down to earth, a nice guy," said Holyfield. "But I'm not taking anything for granted: his age, size, nothing. I respect him a lot. I know George Foreman will use all his energy to try to take me out. And I'm ready." Ready, through hard work. On one of those grueling triple workout days, there was a moment between aerobic sets when the champion stood, hands on hips, drawing deep breaths and thinking. Finally, without prompting, he said about his regimen, "It's hard but it's right." He thought about that a moment and decided to amend the notion. "It's hard," he said, "but it's fair." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 14, 1991, on Page 8008001 of the National edition with the headline: BOXING; Holyfield: Looking for Respect.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »