Advertisement By SAM GOLDAPER The finish of last night's Knicks-Bulls game at Madison Square Garden centered around a 3-point shot attempt, which meant it resembled the finish of the game there between the same teams two months ago. The Knicks won that Jan. 15 game on a 3-point basket by Trent Tucker with one tenth of a second to play. Last night, they needed a 3-pointer with 5 seconds to go to tie the game and send it into overtime. But they never got the ball into the hands of one of their four 3-point shooters on the court, and wound up losing, 111-108. Michael Jordan missed the second of two free throws with 5.9 seconds remaining, setting the stage for the Knicks to try for the tie. Their play called for Gerald Wilkins to receive the inbounds pass and take the shot off a double screen. Tucker was the second option and Johnny Newman the third. Costly Turnover Kiki Vandeweghe, who had replaced Charles Oakley, was assigned the inbounds pass. With everyone covered and the Knicks out of timeouts, Vandeweghe tried to make a cross-court pass, but Newman couldn't run the ball down and it went out of bounds with 3.8 seconds left. Advertisement The Bulls inbounded the ball to Jordan, who ran out the rest of the clock. He finished the game with 34 points, 11 in the final quarter. Advertisement It was the Bulls' 11th victory in their last 12 games and the Knicks' 10th consecutive loss to one of the league's top teams. The Knicks still lead second-place Philadelphia, which lost to Cleveland, by 1 1/2 games in the Atlantic Division. But third-place Boston pulled within 2 1/2 games with a victory over Atlanta. ''Everyone was covered,'' said Vandeweghe, who was playing in only his second game of an injury-shortened season. ''I tried to lob it over to Johnny, but it was tough. There was really no where to go. I had to get the ball to someone.'' No One Open Wilkins, who scored 26 points but missed all four of his last-quarter shots, three outside jumpers and a layup, said: ''They played it well. They really shut us down. They knew where we were going and they played great defense. Johnny was supposed to be the decoy and he was really the only open man.''  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Outside the Bulls' dressing room, Coach Phil Jackson, said: ''We really didn't know who they would go to so we overplayed every one and tried to force them away from the perimeter. We played that well and Stacy King did a good job of pressuring Kiki with the ball.'' Until the Bulls opened a 104-94 lead with 5:15 remaining, the game was close, with neither team able to mount more than a 7-point advantage. Just when the Knicks appeared headed for their second loss in three games to the Bulls, Chicago missed seven straight shots. The Knicks chipped away at the deficit until a 15-foot jumper by Patrick Ewing off a pass from Newman sliced the margin to 104-102 with 1:46 remaining. That set the stage for the cry of ''defense, defense'' from many in the capacity crowd of 18,212. But Jordan, the National Basketball Association's leading scorer, while double-teamed, found Bill Cartwright standing near the basket for a layup that increased the Bulls' lead to 4 points. Advertisement With the Knicks over the foul limit, they were forced to foul and Jordan was the beneficiary. He made all six free throws, and the Knicks countered with 5 points in a 10-second span. Ewing, who led the Knicks with 29 points, tipped Newman's missed free throw to make the score 110-108 with 7.8 seconds left. ''I felt pretty good coming out of this game,'' said Stu Jackson, the Knicks' coach. ''We played an extremely good team and they played extremely well but so did our guys. We played very hard defensively. Offensively, there were some good moments for both teams. We just did a few dumb things at the end of the first half and down the stretch which did not allow us to win. In essence, they executed down the stretch and we did not.'' Jackson would not pinpoint what he categorized as ''dumb plays,'' but it seemed he was referring to the Knicks' last chance and their inability to handle the Bulls' pressure defense. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 14, 1990, on Page D00027 of the National edition with the headline: Knicks Throw Away Chance to Catch Bulls.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »