Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 16, 2014
 Southern Methodist and its Hall of Fame coach, Larry Brown, will open the National Invitation Tournament at home. Snubbed by the N.C.A.A. tournament selection committee after a three-game losing streak, the Mustangs (23-9) are a No. 1 seed in the N.I.T., along with Minnesota, Florida State and St. John’s. St. John’s (20-12) plays at home Tuesday night against Robert Morris (21-13), which upset Kentucky in a first-round N.I.T. game last year. The Red Storm are making a record 30th appearance at the tournament. S.M.U. did not have consecutive losses until the end of the regular season, against the Top 25 teams Louisville and Memphis. They then dropped the American Athletic Conference tournament opener to Houston. Advertisement “We could have beaten Louisville at home,” a clearly disappointed Brown said. “We didn’t play our best game at Memphis, but we didn’t get blown out by either team. But when we didn’t beat Houston, I kind of thought this could possibly happen.” Advertisement Brown, 73, is in his second season at S.M.U., which has not been to the N.C.A.A. tournament since 1993. The Mustangs’ last N.C.A.A. victory was in 1988, when Brown was the coach for Kansas, which won the title that year in his last appearance at the tournament.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Mustangs, making their third N.I.T. appearance, open the tournament Wednesday night against U.C. Irvine (23-11) of the Big West Conference. The Mustangs are 9-1 at the renovated Moody Coliseum, where their only loss was the regular-season home finale against Louisville. Florida State (19-13) will play Florida Gulf Coast (22-12), getting a chance in another tournament after last season’s appearance in the N.C.A.A. tournament, where the Eagles were the first No. 15 seed to make it to the Round of 16. Minnesota (20-13) will meet the Big South regular-season champion High Point (16-14) in the first round. In the 32-team N.I.T. field, the 13 teams that won their regular-season conference titles without receiving an N.C.A.A. bid qualified automatically. A version of this article appears in print on March 17, 2014, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: Top Seeds S.M.U. and St. John’s Will Open N.I.T. at Home.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »