If the early returns on his first workouts are an indication, Sidney Crosby maybe back in the Pittsburgh Penguins’ lineup for the playoffs. The team’s captain, the league’s leading scorer on Jan. 5 when he was sidelined with post-concussion syndrome, skated on Monday, Tuesday and Thursday. Although the workouts were brief, Crosby reported no setbacks. “It was nice to get through it, a small step,” Crosby told the Canadian Press on Thursday. The Penguins have managed to stay near the top of the Eastern Conference standings over the last two-and-a-half months, going 15-10-5 in Crosby’s absence. They are 7-7-4 since losing second-leading scorer Evgeni Malkin for the season to a major knee injury. A strong finish in the final 11 games shouldÂ earn Dan Bylsma strong support for the Jack Adams Trophy, as the league’s coach of the year. Without the 23-year-old Crosby, who was having the best season of his young career, Pittsburgh will not be mentioned in the same breath with Washington, Vancouver, Detroit and Philadelphia as contenders for this year’s Stanley Cup. ToÂ their credit, Penguins’ doctors and trainers have taken a long-term approach and have been extremely cautious with Crosby. His teammates also grasp the magnitude of a serious head injury.

“We’re all hoping that his health is going to be good,” Penguins forward Max Talbot told Ken Warren of the Ottawa Citizen. “But when you go through concussions, sometimes it’s more about the guy and the life of the guy than just hockey.” With the postseason more than three weeks away, Crosby’s ability to endure three on-ice workouts without experiencing headaches or other symptoms is good news for the player, his team andÂ a league that markets him heavily. In 41 games this season, the center scored 34 goals and 32 assists for 66 points. ThisÂ season started so joyously for the Penguins, with the opening of its new arena, the Consol Energy Center, and participating in the N.H.L. Winter Classic at Heinz Field (with accompanying HBO hype). Despite the steady play of Bylsma’s club, a dark cloud has hung over the Penguins during Crosby’s “week-to-week” injury. This week’s workouts provide hope that Pittsburgh may get its captain and franchise player back for the playoffs. “It’s just a matter of getting through each day and hopefully progressing, not having symptoms,” said Crosby. So far, he said, “It’s been good.” Slap Shot, the New York Times hockey blog, reports on the Rangers, the National Hockey League and anything that glides quickly across a frozen surface anywhere on the globe, from the snowy prairies of Saskatchewan to the frigid steppes of Russia and beyond, like, say, Phoenix.
 
			Thank you for visiting Slap Shot. This blog’s regular features, including live game analysis, reader discussion, news and notes from Jeff Z. Klein and others, can now be found on the Hockey section front.Read more… 
			With the 65th overall pick, the Rangers chose Adam Tambellini, a 6-foot-2 center whose father and brother each played for the Islanders. Read more… 
			The Devils took Anthony Brodeur, an 18-year-old goalie, with the 208th pick of the 211-pick draft, sending their seventh-round pick in 2015 to the Kings in exchange for the chance to pick Brodeur. Read more… 
			The Islanders sent Nino Niederreiter to Minnesota for Cal Clutterbuck, and took defenseman Ryan Pulock with the 15th over all pick in Sunday’s N.H.L. draft.Read more… 
			The Rangers announced Friday that they would not use their remaining compliance buyout this summer, ensuring that Brad Richards will return to the team for at least one more season.Read more… Follow Advertisement