Advertisement By THOMAS GEORGE What got Buddy Ryan hired got him fired. That same aggressiveness and bluntness, that adversarial nature, and that tendency to make crucial decisions from his gut and heart, all were reasons for his dismissal yesterday by the Philadelphia Eagles' owner, Norman Braman, who named Rich Kotite, the team's offensive coordinator, to replace Ryan. In 1986, Ryan arrived in Philadelphia promising big things. He molded the Eagles in his spit-and-fire image. The Eagles were 43-35-1 in five regular seasons under Ryan, won a divisional title in 1988 and in each season won more games than they had in the previous one, except for last fall, when they finished 10-6 after being 11-5 in 1989. But Philadelphia lost all three of its playoff games under Ryan, including the one last Saturday at home in Veterans Stadium to the Washington Redskins, 20-6. "It is time to stop being a bridesmaid and become a bride," Braman said yesterday. And that was what the owner had to weigh: Ryan's success in forging the Eagles into contenders, against Ryan's method of accomplishing his goals, a confrontational, us-against-them perspective that was wielded against Braman and the rest of the Eagles' management as easily as it was against any opponent. Ryan's wars always went beyond the playing field. 'Fired for Winning'? "I've been fired before, but usually, it's for losing," the 56-year-old Ryan said. "I've never been fired for winning before." Advertisement Braman must have wondered if -- when the on-field war, the football game itself, could be won only by a tactician -- Ryan fit the bill. After all the late hits had been made, all of the fists had been swung and all the emotion had been spent, were the Ryan-led Eagles able to adjust and present the best schemes to lead to victory? Advertisement "My feeling is we reached a certain plateau with this club and we have to reach out and find a new one," Braman said yesterday. "Buddy Ryan has done a good job here and his record speaks for itself. But I'm not convinced we can go beyond where we have gotten." Known Quantity Simply reaching the Eagles' current plateau was taxing enough for Braman. He knew exactly what he was getting in Ryan, who came to the Eagles after eight seasons as defensive coordinator of the Chicago Bears and earlier stints with the Vikings and the Jets. And although their relationship was not dinner for two, Braman found that the aura of winning solved nearly every ill. Ryan's knack for rallying his player around him, his all-or-nothing loyalty to his players -- all of that was fine with Braman. He gave Ryan latitude in shaping the Eagles, especially early on, when Ryan shipped out players quickly and frequently and lambasted and embarrassed the ones he kept. No players caught more wrath from Ryan than the replacement team fielded during the 1987 strike, a team he ridiculed as the Eagles' managment winced. After displaying such loyalty to his regulars during the strike, and giving them freedom beyond expression throughout his reign, Ryan, by the time his contract was about to expire this year, had earned nearly complete loyalty from this Eagles team. This was especially evident when the receiver Keith Jackson, who had missed the first two games this season because of a contract dispute, returned to the Eagles at Ryan's request.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Ryan sent a limousine to the airport to bring Jackson to Veterans Stadium, and there, unknown to the Eagles' management, Ryan and Jackson held a news conference. In that session, Jackson said he had heard of a "conspiracy going on upstairs to get rid of Buddy." Most of the Eagle players later chimed in. "If Buddy goes, I go," said Reggie White, the Eagles' All-Pro defensive end. Jackson even refused to shake Braman's hand after a game this season. Braman began to feel uncomfortable in his own team's locker room. Ryan was not dismissed only for this us-against-them attitude; nor was it his cavalier attitude throughout the season in regard to his contract status. But no doubt, when Braman purchased the team and made it a labor of love along with his car dealerships, he did not envision that the team would become such a personal torment. Philadelphia's loss to the Redskins on Saturday, and Ryan's "gut move" in briefly benching Randall Cunningham in that game, sealed the coach's fate. Always a Threat Advertisement The benching happened late in the third quarter with the Eagles trailing, 13-6. Cunningham had struggled, but so had all of the Eagles. Unlike the rest of the Eagles -- including Jim McMahon, who replaced Cunningham on one series -- Cunningham is a threat to strike from any scoring distance in one play, passing or running. McMahon was in the game for only three plays, and threw three incomplete passes. In Ryan's Eagles career, those were three very costly plays that unquestionably dented his rock-solid relationship with his players, particularly Cunningham. Braman might have thought after that series what the Redskins later said they thought: that any momentum the Eagles had was gone, that Cunningham had been embarrassed and that Washington could now roll. Braman, who lives in Miami, must have watched the Dolphins later on Saturday afternoon and seen how Dan Marino, awful for three quarters, came alive late and erased a 16-3 deficit for Miami's 17-16 playoff victory over Kansas City. Marino is dangerous, but Cunningham can be lethal. Ryan will leave the Eagles with few regrets. He coaches like most coaches coach: the only way he knows how, with what has proven true to him over the years. Make no mistake, Ryan is a talented coach, perfectly suited, like Jerry Glanville in Atlanta, to light a fire under a bumbling and dreary team. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this an analysis; news analysis appears in print on January 9, 1991, on Page B00007 of the National edition with the headline: Eagles End Their Relationship With Ryan.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »