Advertisement By PETER KERASOTISMARCH 15, 2014
 SARASOTA, Fla. —  Yankees first baseman Mark Teixeira picked at the tape wrapped tightly around his right wrist. It was black, much like his mood most of last season. “I don’t think this is coming off,” he said as he dug a nail into it, working at a thin strand. “I think with all the sweat it’s melded into me.” He gave up, smiled, then scraped a finger across the perspiration on his forehead. If the tape on his wrist, and not the wrist itself, is his only concern, Teixeira is in good shape. Come the April 1 season opener at Houston, he hopes he is good to go. It is why he is working so hard this spring, before and after games, and receiving daily treatment on the wrist — everything he can do to make sure he is the player he has always been, and particularly in his first four seasons as a Yankee, in which he averaged 34 home runs and 106 runs batted in. Advertisement Then there was last season. At the World Baseball Classic last March, Teixeira was hitting off a tee and swinging a weighted bat when his wrist did not feel right. After a series of stints on the disabled list, he had surgery on July 1 to repair the tendon sheath on the wrist. Advertisement “I can’t even look at a weighted bat anymore,” he said. “Makes me nauseous.” He added, “Last year was a nightmare.” Teixeira played only 15 games last season, hitting three home runs in 53 at-bats. But he tries not to dwell on that or even think about the injury. “Nothing has happened where I’ve said, ‘Let’s reassess something,’ ” he said. “It’s boring, but it’s good. It’s very, very good. It feels like a normal spring.” His numbers — he is batting .167 with one double — are also normal. Teixeira is a slow starter, usually through the first month of the regular season. “I’m trying to keep it very simple,” said Teixeira, a switch-hitter who will be 34 on April 11. “I’m not worried about hitting home runs right now because I haven’t played for so long. Hitting balls hard, squaring up balls, which I’ve been doing, is a good sign. And as I play in more and more games, and as I get in the season, the power will come.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. He recalled years when he did not hit a home run in March, or maybe just one, then delivered the way he usually does during the regular season. In 2011, his third season with the Yankees, Teixeira had one homer in the exhibition season and 39 during the regular season. “It’ll come naturally,” he said. “I always put pressure on myself to perform. That’s never been an issue. I expect a lot out of myself. The pressure I put on myself is to be the player I’ve always been. And if I’m the player I’ve always been, then we’re a better team. I need to be healthy and I need to be in the middle of the lineup, and I need to be playing Gold Glove defense.” When it comes to driving the ball, hitting home runs and putting up power numbers as he has usually done, he added, “I know I can do it.” Advertisement Teixeira is still building strength, so he stayed in Florida instead of traveling with the Yankees split squad that is playing two games this weekend in Panama against the Miami Marlins. He does not want to deviate from his meticulous daily program. As opening day nears, Teixeira hopes to play more games. Manager Joe Girardi decided against putting him in the leadoff spot recently, a move that might have given him an extra at-bat, because even that might have disrupted Teixeira’s routine. “The one thing you don’t want to do is get him fatigued out there,” Girardi said. “Because that’s when guys get hurt.” It is a balancing act to put in more work, the kind that melds protective tape to skin, but not overdo it. “I’ve been confident, but I’ve also stuck to a schedule,” Teixeira said. “I don’t want to do anything crazy and take a step back. I haven’t had any steps back yet. We hope to continue that.” INSIDE PITCH The left-hander VIDAL NUNO, vying to be the Yankees’ fifth starter, pitched the first four innings in Saturday’s 2-1 loss to the Baltimore Orioles. Nuno gave up a hit and a walk and struck out three. Second baseman BRIAN ROBERTS received a warm reception from Orioles fans in his first at-bat. He had two solid singles in his three plate appearances. A version of this article appears in print on March 16, 2014, on Page SP11 of the New York edition with the headline: Teixeira Hopes Recovery Is All a Matter of Routine.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »