Advertisement By DAVID WALDSTEINMARCH 3, 2014
 TAMPA, Fla. —  George Rose, the Yankees’ liaison for all things Japan, handed out yellow boxes containing Living Language kits to all four Japanese players in the Yankees’ camp this week. The idea is to assist the players in their efforts to learn English, a task as challenging as throwing or hitting a baseball. But with a reverse purpose in mind, Rose also handed out two other boxes to a pair of Yankees catchers, Brian McCann and Francisco Cervelli, each of whom requested a kit that would help them learn a little Japanese. Yankees camp is turning into a language lab. “I like to talk too much, and I want my teammates to know what I mean,” said Cervelli, a Venezuelan whose native language is Spanish. “We can’t have a translator on the mound when I go out to talk, so I need to learn how to get my message to them.” Good communication is vital in team sports, and in baseball, three languages dominate: English, Spanish and Japanese. (Korean, French, Mandarin, Italian and Dutch, among others, can also be heard from time to time.) Advertisement Most of the Japanese players have their own interpreters because teams do not usually have bilingual coaches or teammates to help them along. Still, it is incumbent upon Japanese players to try to learn a little English, and the newly acquired right-hander Masahiro Tanaka is adding to his English vocabulary, noun by noun and verb by verb. Advertisement Tanaka recently listed his six pitches in English, and a few days ago, after a workout, he walked past a reporter and said, “Finished” — always a welcome word for a player when it comes to conditioning drills. Usually, when there are Japanese players on a team, the English- and Spanish-speaking players will pick up a few words of Japanese, too. Derek Jeter, from his years playing alongside Hideki Matsui and Hideki Irabu, can say, among other things, “How are you?” and “Thank you” in Japanese. Alfonso Soriano, who is from the Dominican Republic, played professionally in Japan and can still speak some Japanese. But it is quite another thing for a player to ask to study Japanese. McCann said his plan is to work on it in the team hotel during road trips. “I just think it’s important to learn a few words to talk to my pitchers,” he said. Tanaka was happy to learn that his catchers were at least making an effort. “I feel happy about that, because it shows they are thinking about me,” he said through an interpreter. “The communication between me and my catchers is very important.” Mound conversations between a pitcher and a catcher who do not share a common language can be awkward, but understanding is usually achieved, especially since many baseball words are universal. Curveball is “curve” in Japanese and “curva” in Spanish. Bullpen is “bullpen” in all three languages. Ichiro Suzuki, who is essentially fluent in English, said he never studied the language beyond middle school in Japan. But he gradually learned to speak it after arriving in the United States as a rookie in 2001. So he will not be using the learning kit.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Matsui, the former Yankee, arrived in New York in 2003, and today, he can handle a casual conversation in English — as long as it is not too far advanced. His English may not be on the major league level, but it is at Class AAA. Advertisement “It was hard when I first came,” he said in English at the Yankees’ camp. “I didn’t have time to learn, because I had to focus on baseball.” Matsui, who still lives in New York four years after he left the Yankees, has hired an English teacher and takes lessons a couple of times a week for two or three hours at a time. Cervelli had a more enjoyable method for learning English. When he arrived in the United States to play for the Gulf Coast Yankees in 2005, he met, and then began dating, an American woman. “We went out for two years, and that’s how I learned English,” he said. “I didn’t speak any English, and she didn’t speak any Spanish, but we made it work. I had to. I would bother everyone all the time: What does this mean? What does that mean? Maybe I made them mad, but I wanted to learn.” Cervelli has already picked up some Japanese words. He figured out quickly after the first time he caught Tanaka in spring training and was interviewed by many Japanese reporters that he might have some marketing opportunities in Japan if he makes the team. Knowing some Japanese could be beneficial. So, when his interview for this article, which was conducted in English, concluded, Cervelli smiled. and said, “Arigato,” which is Japanese for thank you. Note: There will be a vocabulary quiz next week. INSIDE PITCH Ivan Nova had a strong outing in the Yankees’ 4-2 victory, throwing 31 strikes in 36 pitches. “I love where he’s at right now,” Manager Joe Girardi said. ... Derek Jeter went 0 for 3 in the game and is 0 for 7 in the spring, but Girardi is pleased with how Jeter is moving. A version of this article appears in print on March 4, 2014, on Page B10 of the New York edition with the headline: No Room for Misinterpretation.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »