Advertisement Supported by By Brian Sciaretta In a game that offered little comfort to Coach Jurgen Klinsmann 99 days before the start of the World Cup in Brazil, the United States lost decisively to a team from Ukraine that appeared inspired in the face of the international crisis gripping its country. Wednesday’s game was the final exhibition for the U.S. on an official FIFA international date before the start of its World Cup camp in May. So for Klinsmann, it was the last chance for him to evaluate his European-based players before choosing a preliminary World Cup roster. He could not have been encouraged because so many of the individual performances were flat. It was especially true in defense, where central defenders Oguchi Onyewu and John Brooks played poorly and left back Edgar Castillo was vulnerable. Klinsmann must hope that players based in Major League Soccer — a list which includes Michael Bradley, Landon Donovan, Graham Zusi, Matt Besler and Omar Gonzalez — can help transform the underperforming team that was display in Cyprus into a team that can challenge Ghana, Portugal and Germany (the first-round opponents for the U.S.) in Brazil. It looks like a tall task. Starters Tim Howard It was a game where Howard was let down by his defense. He came up with the initial save on both of the plays that resulted in Ukrainian goals only to have the defense fail to stop the second attempts. He deserved much better and was the best American player among the starters. Rating: 6.5 Geoff Cameron Playing at right back in his second consecutive appearance for the U.S., Cameron struggled but mostly because of the disorganization in central defense. It is not saying much, but he was the best of the starting back line. In the brief times when U.S. offense was active, Cameron was a part of it. He should have had an assist in the 54th minute but Jozy Altidore headed his cross over the bar. Rating: 5.5 Oguchi Onyewu Making his first start for U.S. since last summer’s Concacaf Gold Cup, Onyewu was caught out of position on both goals. He was not effective passing out of the back and it hurt the midfield’s ability to press forward. He needed a good performance to justify a ticket to Brazil and he appears to have come up short. Rating: 3.5 John Brooks Brooks is one of Klinsmann’s prized prospects and is clearly capable of more than he showed against Ukraine. He was not in sync with Onyewu in central defense and was similarly exposed on both goals. He looked nervous and his World Cup dreams will likely have to wait until 2018. Rating: 4.0 Edgar Castillo It was a golden opportunity for Castillo to show he could play left back at high level but he failed to take advantage. His one-on-one defending was suspect and he offered little moving forward into the attack. Despite his regular call-ups this cycle, it is difficult to envision him going to Brazil. Rating: 3.5 Jermaine Jones With the back line struggling in the first half, Jones did his best to try to settle the situation. He drifted back in the first half and helped to protect Onyewu and Brooks. He also covered a lot of ground to break up the Ukrainian attack. The effort was there but it will not bode well for U.S. in Brazil if he has to bail out his defense. Rating: 5.5 Sacha Kljestan In the first half Kljestan was not able to help U.S. keep possession or create scoring chances. He improved slightly at the start of the second half before coming off but it was not a performance that helped his chances to join the team in Brazil. Rating: 4.0 Alejandro Bedoya In the first half, Bedoya was the most energetic player in an otherwise overrun midfield. He hustled on defense and had a good chance in the 53rd minute with a shot from distance. He took most of the team’s set pieces and his delivery was acceptable. Rating: 5.5 Clint Dempsey Dempsey returned to his former club, Fulham, on loan this winter in the hope of regaining his sharpness ahead of the World Cup. His loan was mostly a disappointment as he failed to score a goal or help the club in its relegation fight in the Premier League. Against Ukraine, Dempsey showed that he is still capable of a lot more and is not playing the way he was in 2012. He passing was off and he rarely looked dangerous on offense. He will have to turn it around quickly. Rating: 4.0 Fabian Johnson Over the past two years, Johnson has showed impressive versatility and was slotted in at left midfield against Ukraine. Like all other starters, he did not play up to his capabilities. He was invisible for long stretches of the first half but his move to the back line helped the team in the second half. Rating: 5.0 Jozy Altidore In the middle of what has been a disappointing season with Sunderland, Altidore was starved for service against Ukraine and did not have an impact. He drew a few fouls and had a decent chance on a Cameron cross in the 54th minute. A forgettable match. Rating: 4.0 Substitutes Aron Johannsson He was an improvement in the 30 minutes he was on the field and nearly scored in the 87th minute on an impressive volley from a Bedoya corner kick. He was composed on the ball and probably deserved the start. Rating: 6.0 Brek Shea Since making the move to Europe in 2013, Shea has been inconsistent for both club and country. Surprisingly against Ukraine, Shea was one of the better American players. He looked aggressive and eager to take on defenders. Over all, it was a 30 minutes of action he can feel good about. Rating: 6.0 Juan Agudelo Brought some life into U.S. attack but the Ukrainians were in command by the time he entered the game. Rating: 5.5 Danny Williams The Reading-based midfielder was sharp in his 10 minutes and was an overall improvement for the team. He made a case that he should have been playing from the opening kickoff. Rating: 5.5 Terrence Boyd Came on in the game’s final minutes for a brief cameo: Rating: Incomplete Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS