Advertisement By AL HARVIN The Public Schools Athletic League championships returned to the main arena of Madison Square Garden last night after an absence of 26 years and it made its re-entry into the big time with flair: three title games, slam-dunk and 3-point shooting contests, a double-dutch jump-roping exhibition and nary an untoward incident from the crowd of 6,352. William E. Grady High School of Brooklyn won its first basketball title in an exciting finale to the tripleheader, beating Manhattan Center for Science and Mathematics by 71-61. James Hector, a 6-foot-4-inch senior forward who was voted the game's most valuable player, had 23 points and 14 rebounds for Grady. In the girls' championship game, August Martin (25-1) put another jewel in the crown of its dynasty, beating South Shore (22-2), 69-39. Singleton Scores 15 Points Martin was led by Rhonda Singleton, who scored 15 points and won her second consecutive championship m.v.p. award, and a deep bench. Martin used 15 players, seven of them played at least 15 minutes. Michelle Reed had 13 points for Martin and Carrine Jones had 12. South Shore's only double-figure scorer, Katasha Artis, had a game-high 25. Advertisement August Martin has won four P.S.A.L. titles in a row and 7 of the last 8, and four State titles. In the boys' B Division, a rubber match between Bronx rivals, James Monroe (18-4) won its third P.S.A.L. crown, beating Addams (18-4), 49-39. It was Monroe's first championship in the B division, and the first of any kind since they it won championships in 1929 and 1933. The Eagles were led by Reginald Moore, the m.v.p. who scored 26 points. Advertisement The crowd for the early games was relatively small when the Bronx B-division schools opened the program at 4 P.M. and when the girls played. They came out in force, however, for the finale to see the rematch of last December's Doc Turner Christmas tournament semifinal, which Grady won in overtime.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. They were not disappointed. The game opened like it might be a Grady blowout as the Falcons (25-1) opened with a 15-4 spurt in the first five minutes. But Manhattan Center (21-5) fought back to take a 60-59 lead with 2 minutes 41 seconds left to play on 6 consecutive points by David Sweeting, who led all scorers with 26. Two free throws by Lou Johnson and a basket by Maurice Brown gave Grady a 63-60 lead with 1:44 to go. James Hector, Brown and Johnson took charge in the final minute for Grady, combining to produce a run of 8 consecutive points on free throws. Brown hit two, Hector made four and Johnson added two as Manhattan Center tried to stop the clock by fouling the Grady players. #20 Points for Brown Brown had 20 points and 6 assists, and Johnson added 15 points. Effrem Whitehead also contributed mightly with 7 points, 2 blocked shots and several intimidating rejections. ''It's not over yet, if I have anything to say about it,'' said Brown as he hugged his teammates. The Falcons will face the Catholic Schools Athletic Association champion, Cardinal Hayes (18-9) of the Bronx, a week from tomorrow in a State Federation semifinal in Glens Falls. The other semifinal will match Our Saviour Lutheran (15-7) of the Bronx and the New York State public schools champion, who will be determined in playoffs this weekend. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 15, 1990, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: P.S.A.L. Title To Grady.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »