Advertisement By PETER MAYMARCH 3, 2014
 STORRS, Conn. —  The game was five minutes old. The score was 2-0. Southern Methodist’s point guard, Nic Moore, brought the ball up in transition and quickly launched an unsuccessful 3-point attempt. Twelve seconds later, Moore, who leads the Mustangs in scoring, assists and minutes, was seated on the bench next to his coach, Larry Brown. Seventeen seconds later, after some choice words from Brown, Moore was back in the game. “Sometimes we don’t see eye to eye,” Moore said of Brown, a Hall of Fame coach who is in the middle of yet another restoration project in a 39-year coaching career. “At times, he can be tough. But he has been there before. I understand now that if I just listen to him, great things will happen.” Moore finished with 15 points and 5 assists in S.M.U.’s 64-55 victory at Connecticut on Feb. 23. The victory put the Mustangs back in the top 25 for the second time this season; before this season, they had not been ranked in the top 25 since 1984-5. When the team arrived back on its Dallas campus later that night, a throng of students greeted its bus. Advertisement The mood is definitely upbeat these days at S.M.U., where Brown has turned around a program in only his second season there. Advertisement S.M.U. (23-6) has the most wins of any Mustangs team since 1987-8 and is looking for its first N.C.A.A. tournament bid since 1993. The Mustangs swept the season series with UConn and beat then-No. 7 Cincinnati, their first victory over a top 10 opponent since 1987 and their first on-campus win over a top 10 team since 1967. On Wednesday, S.M.U. faces No. 11 Louisville, which is tied with Cincinnati for first in the American Athletic Conference, one game ahead of the Mustangs. The team is 15-0 at home this season. Since January, it has been playing at the renovated Moody Coliseum, where Mark Cuban and former President George W. Bush have come to see the team play. S.M.U. is set to sell out seven home games this season, a record. Attendance has increased more than 70 percent since Brown arrived in 2012. At 73, Brown has not slowed a bit. He lives with his son, L. J., a freshman at S.M.U., in a high rise across from the basketball complex and takes daily walks with staff members. He is so content at S.M.U. that he said he is hoping his daughter Madison, a high school junior at Brewster Academy in New Hampshire, decides to head there, too. “I told my boy I’m going to watch him graduate,” Brown said. “I just feel real fortunate I’m able to do what I do in a great environment with really neat people. It’s been wonderful here.” Brown has an eclectic group of assistants, none of whom had previously coached with Brown. He did, however, bring in two of his former Philadelphia 76ers players, George Lynch (strength and conditioning) and Eric Snow (director of player development). Three of Brown’s current starters are transfers, including Moore, who came from Illinois State and acknowledged, “I had no idea where S.M.U. was or what state it was even in.” But Brown’s success helped land a blue-chip recruit in point guard Emmanuel Mudiay, who will arrive next season. Brown said of his recruiting experiences: “The older coaches know me. The kids? They Google me up.” What the players find is that Brown has coached nine N.B.A. teams, two A.B.A. teams and three Division I teams (S.M.U., U.C.L.A. and Kansas). He won an N.C.A.A. championship with Kansas in 1988 and an N.B.A. championship with the Detroit Pistons in 2004. Advertisement But Brown’s decision in 2012 to return to the college game came after two crash-and-burn jobs in the N.B.A., with the Knicks (one year) and Charlotte (two-plus years). He was out of basketball from December 2010, when he was fired by the Charlotte Bobcats owner Michael Jordan, until he took over at S.M.U. in April 2012. He had led the Bobcats to the playoffs the year before he was fired, then watched Jordan trade or lose two key starters before the start of the season. “When a guy you admire as much as anybody does that to you, it hurts,” Brown said of Jordan. “I told him, ‘Michael, I could have gone places. If you are going to tear this down, after what we’ve done, I don’t want to be a part of that.’ ” Brown spent the next year attending practices at Villanova, Kentucky, Maryland and Colorado, brainstorming with the college coaches there. “Those guys,” he said, “saved my life.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. He was also passed up by friends in the N.B.A. as they filled vacancies, something he called “a sobering process.” He said he recognized he would not be a strong front-office candidate. “Because in the N.B.A., they think the older you are, the dumber you are,” he said. His longtime friend Doug Moe said: “After what happened to him at Charlotte, you just didn’t know. But Larry can still coach. He just needed the job.” Brown went back and forth with S.M.U.; interviews were canceled, and the university offered the job to others, who declined it. “I didn’t have much hope,” he said of the opening. By the time he did sit down to interview, the meeting lasted 15 minutes, and he was soon hired. From there, S.M.U.’s makeover has been classic Brown: He takes over tough situations and wins. His teams invariably improve, not just from year to year, but from month to month. His teams defend; S.M.U. is No. 2 in the country in field-goal percentage defense (36.9) and 17th in scoring defense (61.2 points per game). Gone are the bad memories of New York — “humiliating” — and Charlotte — “awful.” He’s back doing what he loves — coaching (and winning). “We are a great school in a great conference in a great city,” Brown said. “We have a lot of neat things going on, a lot of things that have helped us.” A version of this article appears in print on March 4, 2014, on Page B10 of the New York edition with the headline: In Yet Another Act, Brown Writes a Winning Script.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »