Advertisement By MURRAY CHASS Howard Spira, who in March was indicted on charges of attempted extortion of George Steinbrenner and making threats against Steinbrenner and Dave Winfield, was indicted again yesterday, this time on 11 counts, including at least 3 new ones. The indictment, handed up by a grand jury sitting in Manhattan, supersedes the eight-count indictment by a grand jury in Tampa, Fla. Robert Genzman, the United States Attorney in Tampa, announced the new indictment. Gregory Kehoe, an assistant United States Attorney from Tampa, presented several witnesses to the new grand jury in recent weeks. They included Earle Lilly, a Houston lawyer, and Jennifer Madsen, an 18-year-old college student from Atlantic Highlands, N.J. Two of the new counts charge Spira with threatening and attempting to extort money from Lilly and with threatening Madsen's boyfriend, Scott Saidel, a student at Pace University Law School, in a telephone conversation with Madsen on Sept. 17. Advertisement The third new count charges Spira with threatening personal harm to a United Airlines employee, who was not identified in the announcement of the indictment. Spira allegedly made the threat in the summer of 1989 in telephone calls to the airlines in Chicago about lost luggage. Advertisement The announcement didn't say, but the other eight counts were believed to be the original ones that charged Spira in connection with Steinbrenner and Winfield. If he is convicted on all 11 counts, Spira will face 34 years in prison and $2 million in fines.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Asked about the new indictment, David Greenfield, Spira's lawyer, said: "It appears that the Government has opened its second front and launched its winter offensive in operation Steinbrenner Shield. It's a blatant attempt to justify both the original indictment and Mr. Steinbrenner's own personal motives." Spira could be arraigned today during a previously scheduled conference before Judge Louis L. Stanton in United States District Court in Manhattan. The count involving Madsen and Saidel stemmed from a telephone conversation Spira had with Madsen four days after they met in New York and two days after they had dinner together. Madsen, a freshman at Hunter College, said she had told Spira that her boyfriend had "checked him out" and he responded, she said, by saying he would "take care" of Saidel. According to Madsen's mother, Joan Madsen, Jennifer was called back to appear before the grand jury yesterday. "I think they wanted to clear things up because of what was in the article in The Times," Mrs. Madsen said. In an article in The New York Times yesterday, Jennifer Madsen said that while she initially took Spira's comment as a threat, she subsequently didn't see it that way and neither did Saidel. Spira became involved with Lilly last year when the lawyer represented Sandra Renfro in a matrimonial lawsuit against Winfield. The count in the indictment charges that Spira told Lilly that if he didn't give him money, he would "disclose taped conversations to the media." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 30, 1990, on Page A00028 of the National edition with the headline: New Spira Indictment Adds Charges of Threats.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »