By most yardsticks, Steve Cherundolo’s 32nd birthday last Saturday was pretty darn good. His Hannover 96 club in the German Bundesliga, one of the surprises of the season, shut out Kaiserslautern, 3-0, and progressed to third place in the standings, only one point behind powerhouse Bayern Munich. “It was an excellent birthday present, and getting a good win on my birthday made it that much better,” Cherundolo said during a telephone interview as he and the club prepared for a trip up the E45 Autobahn to Hamburg for Saturday’s match against St. Pauli. “Of course my teammates knew it was my birthday and did a good job of congratulating me. And as I said, a win made for an even better day. “I had dinner with my wife, sat down with family afterward and just took it easy. I didn’t really celebrate too much because 32 isn’t exactly a round number.” One week after playing St. Pauli, Hannover will host Bayern Munich in perhaps the biggest game of the season,Â  to that point. Victories the next two weeks might give Hannover visions of dashing past the Europa League and claiming one of the Bundesliga berths in the Champions League,Â especially becauseÂ UEFA on Friday stripped Italy of one of its guaranteed spots and gave it to the Bundesliga. but not until the 2012-13 tournament. Dreams between the touchlines. Cherundolo, a steely right back, counts himself among some of the most accomplished Americans in Europe — he is Hannover’s captain, a honor not to be underestimated, and he has played his entire professional career with the club in northwest Germany. He joined Die Roten (the Reds) in 1999 when it was in the 2. Bundesliga (the country’s second division) and has been around since.

There have been ups and downs, but never as many ups as this season under a new coach, Mirko Slomka. But no one, Cherundolo included, expected this superlative season. “If you had asked me in the beginning of the season if we’d be fourth after 23 games, I would have said no way,” Cherundolo said. “But with all the work we put in the preseason and during the winter break, perhaps I shouldn’t be surprised. We worked very hard on our tactical awareness, getting it perfect before games, being aware of the opponent and just being prepared.” He said that the attention to detail and preparation had allowed Hannover to start strong in its Bundesliga matches. It has outscored the opposition, 6-2, in the first 15 minutes of its matches. “Any time you can get up in a game by one or two goals, it’s easier for a team like us where we can then sit back and counterattack,” Cherundolo. “It’s been a goal of ours to go up, 1-0, 2-0. It makes the game a lot easier. Yes, that’s something we emphasize, but it’s certainly not the only way to win a game. “We just don’t want to react to the other team, we want to push and try and get up. A lot of teams wait and wait and wait because 0-0 is O.K. with them. We want to push the issue. We don’t want to play ties. We want to win games.” Cherundolo acknowledged that last season was immensely difficult. Hannover hovered nearÂ  relegation as first Coach Dieter Hecking resigned, replaced by the former assistant Andreas Bergmann, who gave way to Slomka. Hannover escaped what could have been a soul-destroying drop with a decisive win on the last day of the season to finish 2 points ahead of Nurnberg. ButÂ  worse than the struggles on the field was the absolute shock ofÂ  the suicide of Hannover’s popular national team goalkeeper Robert Enke. After a long battle with depression, Enke stood on railroad tracks and was hit by a train. “It was a very testing year,” Cherundolo said. “We could have gone down to the second division. And with what also happened, it was very difficult for us. It was a learning experience for all of us. At times we were scared because we didn’t want to fail. At other times we were proud of overcoming the situation.” He is in his first season as the captain (Cherundolo was a co-captain last season) after 12 seasons with the club. Cherundolo mentioned other possibilities, outside the Bundesliga, but said each time it was time to negotiate a contract, Hannover remained the best and most comfortable fit. “The club continues to grow and I continue to grow as a person and as a player,” he said. “I never saw any reason to change clubs and start over new someplace else. But I realize that at some point one of us will no longer be present, and most likely it’s going to be me. I hope to hang on a few more years.” How much longer does he plan to play? And where? “As long as my legs will carry me, I love playing,” he said. “It’s fun playing for this club and challenging myself at this level. As long as I can handle and contribute. When I feel that my time has passed in Germany, I would definitely like to play in M.L.S., though I’m not sure with which team.” Cherundolo grew up in San Diego and played a couple of years in college at the University of Portland. And after being a fixture at right back, first for the national team coach Bruce Arena, now for Bob Bradley, Cherundolo said he had no plans of “hanging up my international boots.” “I would love to play in the next World Cup,” he said. “As long as I can contribute to the national team, I would love to be part of it and hope Bob thinks the same way. But if my time’s up, my time’s up.” Goal, The New York Times soccer blog, will report on news and features from the world of soccer and around the Web.  Times editors and reporters will follow international tournaments and provide analysis of games. There will be interviews with players, coaches and notable soccer fans, as well as a weekly blog column by Red Bulls forward Jozy Altidore.  Readers can discuss Major League Soccer, foreign leagues and other issues with fellow soccer fans.
	 
			The Goal blog’s regular features, including live match analysis, player ratings from key matches, reader discussion, news and notes and more, can now be found on the soccer section front.Read more… 
			Crystal Palace won promotion to England’s Premier League on Monday. Now the club must retool under Manager Ian Holloway if it is to avoid relegation next season.Read more… 
			When congress opens, FIFA will be dealing with issues from President Sepp Blatter’s possible run for another term to accusations of vote-rigging among executive committee members.Read more… 
			Sacha Kljestan, who just won his second straight Belgian title with Anderlecht, could have a role to play for the United States in its exhibition against Belgium on Wednesday.Read more… 
			Alonso Hernandez, who plays in Mexico for Monterrey but has never represented the United States at any level, will get a chance to earn a place on the Under-20 World Cup team.Read more… Follow Advertisement