Advertisement By TIM ROHANMARCH 8, 2014
 LAKELAND, Fla. —  This was a reminder that the Mets’ top prospect, Noah Syndergaard, is not invincible, that he is just 21 years old and that this is only spring training. The Tigers’ Steve Lombardozzi drove in two runs against Syndergaard on Saturday, but Syndergaard did not seem concerned afterward. He said he was pleased with his curveball and how his changeup felt in the third inning. He said he did not focus on the result as much as the process. Clearly, in his second start of the spring, he was working on aspects of his game. In three innings, he allowed three walks, two hits and two runs. He also had three strikeouts in the Mets’ 3-2 win. In the second inning, against role players and prospects, Syndergaard was erratic. He walked Don Kelly on five pitches; got Nick Castellanos, one of the Tigers’ top prospects, to line out; and walked Daniel Fields. As he struck out Bryan Holaday on a curveball, Kelly and Fields advanced on a double steal. Advertisement Then Lombardozzi hit a grounder. Eric Young Jr., playing second base, ranged over, but the ball bounced off his glove and into the outfield. Kelly and Holaday scored.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Syndergaard faced three established major leaguers — Ian Kinsler, Torii Hunter and Victor Martinez — two times each and came away relatively unscathed. Advertisement Syndergaard got Kinsler to ground out on a 95-mile-per-hour fastball and then struck him out swinging on a 97-m.p.h. fastball. He had more trouble with Hunter. In the first inning, Hunter sent a jolt through the crowd, ripping a 96-m.p.h. fastball down the left-field line — just foul. Syndergaard went to his curveball, and Hunter singled. In his next at-bat, Hunter drew a walk. Martinez, in his first at-bat, grounded out to first base. In his second at-bat, he smashed a fastball foul down the right-field line and then weakly popped out. Despite the runs, Syndergaard said he felt more comfortable on the mound. He probably will not join the Mets until around midseason. Mets fans have dreamed of a rotation with Syndergaard, Zack Wheeler and Matt Harvey. On Saturday, Harvey tweeted, “2014 Harvey day will happen,” indicating he planned to pitch this season. A version of this article appears in print on March 9, 2014, on Page SP3 of the New York edition with the headline: Mets’ Top Prospect Has Shaky Outing but Remains Upbeat.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »