Advertisement By ANDREW DASMARCH 13, 2014
 The 2014 World Cup begins on June 12, when Brazil plays Croatia in the opening match. Reporters and editors for The New York Times will count down to the start of the tournament each day with a short capsule of news and interesting tidbits. FIFA announced Wednesday that it had sold nearly 300,000 tickets to the World Cup in the first 24 hours of the latest period of public sales. More than two-thirds of the tournament’s matches are sold out, including all matches involving the United States, England and Germany, among others. As of Tuesday night, only 15 matches, mostly involving teams with little World Cup tradition, still had seats available. The current sale ends April 1, but a final round for last-minute shoppers is planned for April 15. Didn’t get yours? You still have options to see some World Cup teams in action. About a dozen teams will play warm-up games in the United States before heading to Brazil, including the United States, Mexico, Spain, England, Portugal and Ivory Coast, among others. Advertisement Some highlights (World Cup qualifiers in bold): The United States will play Mexico at University of Phoenix Stadium in Arizona on April 2, then take part in three warm-up matches in May and June: against Azerbaijan on May 27 at Candlestick Park in San Francisco; against Turkey on June 1 at Red Bull Arena; and against Nigeria on June 7 at EverBank Field in Jacksonville, Fla. Before facing the United States, the Nigerians will play Greece on June 3 in Chester, Pa. The Greeks, meanwhile, will move on to play Bolivia at Red Bull Arena on June 6.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Another African team with high hopes for Brazil, Ivory Coast, will play twice: against Bosnia and Herzegovina in St. Louis on May 30 and against El Salvador in Frisco, Tex. on June 4. Advertisement Mexico, in addition to its game against the United States in April, will face Ecuador (May 31 at AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Tex.), Bosnia and Herzegovina (June 3 at Soldier Field in Chicago) and Portugal (June 6 at Gillette Stadium in Foxboro, Mass.). Portugal then has a send-off game against Ireland at MetLife Stadium on June 10. In other games, England will play Ecuador (June 4) and Honduras (June 7) in Miami, and Spain, the defending World Cup champion, will stop in Washington on June 7 to face El Salvador in its final pretournament match. And that is all before the World Cup opens June 12. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »