Today marks the end of the two-week purgatory sports fans live in before every Super Bowl. Yes, after two weeks of blather the Steelers and the Packers will actually play a game and the collective sigh of relief will be enough to power a giant wind farm. Sometime this evening, you can take your finger off the mute button and tune back in. If you held that mute button since the conference championship games, let us fill you in on what happened: nothing. The final burst of coverage of that nothing comes today, which mostly consists of game predictions, because once you run out of things to over-hype and over-analyze, guessing seems like logical next step. (If you’d like to join the recreational guessing, pop on over to our interactive point-counterpoint video and register yours there. Hey, your guess is as good as Peter King’s!) King, on SI.com, is picking the Steelers, by the way. If you want a plethora of prognostications, ESPN.com gives you a list of how its “experts” are guessing, as does CBSSports.com. The predictions are split pretty well down the middle in both lists and Rick Reilly gives his take on ESPN.com that the Steelers and the Packers are actually both the same team (matching yellow pants!) and that’s why no one knows what will happen.

But the analysis flows nonetheless. Jim Trotter and Don Banks square off on SI.com, with Trotter explaining the Steelers will win because they are the known quantity and the Packers are the newcomers, but Banks gives the edge to the Packers based on both offense and defense.  The Steelers’ side has Terence Moore of Fanhouse.com explaining why Coach Mike Tomlin will make the difference and the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette’s Ron Cook believing quarterback Ben Roethlisberger will repay his teammates’ loyalty this season with a victory. The Pittsburgh Tribune-Review’s Joe Starkey says logic tells him to pick the Packers, but he can’t manage it. The Packers crowd seemed to go the more analytical route, with Tom Silverstein writing in the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel that quarterback Aaron Rodgers is used to stepping out of others’ shadows to succeed, and the Green Bay Press-Gazette’s Rob Demovsky highlighting how this Packers team is in the winning mold of the 1990s version crafted by Mike Holmgren. ESPN.com’s Greg Garber argues that Super Bowl first-timers, however, are in for a big jolt. And Foxsports.com’s John Czarnecki believes that despite all the predictions of a high-scoring game, the two defenses will come to the forefront. There’s even not much left of the N.F.L.’s labor dispute to talk about, particularly after Commissioner Roger Goodell tried to paper over everything at his state-of-the-league news conference. It did include the odd twist of Chad Ochocinco playing the part of questioner, and it did prompt Fanhouse.com’s Terence Moore to ask that Goodell stop insulting everyone’s intelligence with his insistence this cash-flush league is in economic peril. The Hall of Fame announcement of seven new inductees on Saturday night did not prompt much in the way of controversy. It did bring some recognition that the Bears defensive star Richard Dent has been overlooked for a lot of years, until finally breaking through. Curtis Martin was a notable snub, but ESPN.com’s Rich Cimini writes that it brings up an intriguing possibility of him on the ballot with Bill Parcells next year. A year is a long time to wait. But it will go a lot faster than the last two weeks. Follow Leading Off on Twitter: twitter.com/zinsernyt The New York Times will report on the Giants and Jets throughout the season. You can also find links to coverage from around the league, tips for your fantasy football team and discussion with other football fans. 
			The content on the Fifth Down blog is moving to the pro football page on nytimes.com.Read more… 
			The Jets receiver became a critic of the game and its role in American society. But the decision to walk away was also personal.Read more… 
			John Idzik, the general manager of the Jets, will not retain Scott Cohen, the assistant general manager. Ari Nissim, another high-ranking executive, also will depart.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, answers questions from readers.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, will answer questions from readers.Read more… Follow Advertisement