That Columbus goalkeeper Will Hesmer raced out of his own half in injury time Saturday to lend a hand (or, more likely, a head) in a last-ditch effort to tie a game at Toronto was not newsworthy. Goalkeepers do that all the time. That he managed to score was not entirely shocking either. Plenty of goalkeepers have done that. Victor Enyeama did it in the Champions League two weeks ago. What was really impressive was the way Hesmer scored — not with his head, but with his right foot. And only after he made a nifty trap with his hip, calmly settled the ball, picked his spot and fired.  Sure, it went in off a defender, but let’s let Hesmer have his moment. Until Saturday, Danny Cepero of the Red Bulls had been the only M.L.S. goalkeeper to score a goal, and he did it two years ago. That Hesmer has now matched his feat may have surprised Hesmer most of all. “I’ve never gone into the box before,” he said. “It’s my first time ever.” Goal, The New York Times soccer blog, will report on news and features from the world of soccer and around the Web.  Times editors and reporters will follow international tournaments and provide analysis of games. There will be interviews with players, coaches and notable soccer fans, as well as a weekly blog column by Red Bulls forward Jozy Altidore.  Readers can discuss Major League Soccer, foreign leagues and other issues with fellow soccer fans.
	 
			The Goal blog’s regular features, including live match analysis, player ratings from key matches, reader discussion, news and notes and more, can now be found on the soccer section front.Read more… 
			Crystal Palace won promotion to England’s Premier League on Monday. Now the club must retool under Manager Ian Holloway if it is to avoid relegation next season.Read more… 
			When congress opens, FIFA will be dealing with issues from President Sepp Blatter’s possible run for another term to accusations of vote-rigging among executive committee members.Read more… 
			Sacha Kljestan, who just won his second straight Belgian title with Anderlecht, could have a role to play for the United States in its exhibition against Belgium on Wednesday.Read more… 
			Alonso Hernandez, who plays in Mexico for Monterrey but has never represented the United States at any level, will get a chance to earn a place on the Under-20 World Cup team.Read more… Follow Advertisement