Advertisement By THOMAS GEORGE Sam Wyche, the Cincinnati Bengals' head coach, has a knack of becoming a storm center. From his no-huddle offense to his snatching a microphone at a home game last season and instructing the Cincinnati fans to stop throwing garbage because "you don't live in Cleveland" to his grabbing the banner in the women-in-the-locker-room issue, Wyche speaks his mind and loves to get involved. He practices the same philosophy in his tireless efforts to help the homeless in Cincinnati. Jerry Glanville, the Atlanta Falcons' head coach, is quick with a quip and has shown that he knows what it takes to shake lifeless teams into contenders. The Falcons are only 2-4, but they have been an entertaining 2-4 and appear on the road to success. Glanville, before being dismissed by the Houston Oilers after last season, was showered with honors from the Houston community for his work with youths and in children's hospitals. Wyche and Glanville. Two swell guys. But worlds apart. Their rivalry and dislike for each other remain intact, and though the Bengals (5-2) and Falcons want to win their Sunday night matchup in Atlanta solely for the sake of winning, the meeting has special flavor for Wyche and Glanville. The Oilers, on the threshold of a divisional title last December, were humiliated by the Bengals, 61-7. Ahead by more than 30 points, Wyche ordered an onside kick, which his team recovered and relished as part of the drubbing. Afterward, Wyche said the message he had sent was solely for Glanville, whom he called "a phony." Advertisement Is there any chance they can mend their rift? "The problems I have with Jerry Glanville are in coaching philosophy and his dirty tatics," Wyche said. "I played for him in Detroit. I would leave meetings and walk out on the field cringing, hoping the guys wouldn't listen to the bull he was asking them to do. I'm looking at the Falcons film right now and nothing has changed. This relationship? That won't change, either." Advertisement When asked about Wyche this week, Glanville said: "We played Cincinnati in the preseason. I would never mention their coach to my team. Before that game, a guy came and asked me to sign an autograph. I said I'd be glad to. He said before I sign it, he should tell me he was Sam Wyche's cousin. I told him, 'You learn in America you can pick your friends but you can't pick relatives.' " (Denver, Kansas City, Seattle and the Raiders have byes this weekend.) LOCAL TEAMS Washington (4-2) at Giants (6-0) The Redskins hope they haven't already lost the mental war. Five straight losses to the Giants have the Redskins players scratching their heads and their head coach, Joe Gibbs, working overtime devising a plan to snap the string. Extra Point: Earnest Byner, the Redskin running back, is the league's only player this season to run for a touchdown, catch a scoring pass and throw for a score. Jets (2-5) at Houston (4-3) Warren Moon is spreading passes fruitfully among his receivers, with Ernest Givins tops in catches with 35 and the next three receivers with 33, 31 and 31. The Jets and their secondary will have a rough time keeping track. Extra Point: Moon has played only once against the Jets, in 1984 in a 1-20 Oilers victory. NATIONAL CONFERENCE Minnesota (1-5) at Green Bay (2-4) Problems are everywhere for the Vikings, upstairs in management and ownership and downstairs in the locker room. Meshing the Vikings' varied offensive tools and getting more production out of Chris Doleman (a league-high 21 sacks last season but only 3 this year) are nagging obstacles. Advertisement Extra Point: The game will be played in Milwaukee, where the Vikings haven't won in nine years. Detroit (2-4) at New Orleans (2-4) The return of Chris Spielman and Bennie Blades after three games should do wonders for the Lions' defense, which ranks last against the run, allowing 5.0 yards an attempt. Extra Point: Richard Johnson grabbed eight passes for a career-high 248 yards and a 75-yard touchdown in the Lions' 21-14 victory over the Saints last season. Chicago (5-1) at Phoenix (2-4)  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Bears are concerned about their momentum after a week off, and Phoenix wishes it could take the month off after its last-second 20-19 loss to the Giants. Extra Point: Roy Green needs 7 receiving yards to pass Jackie Smith's 7,918 and become the Cardinals' career leader.  Philadelphia (2-4) at Dallas (3-4) The Eagles have won five straight in the series, but Jerome Brown, the defensive tackle, noted: "That ain't the same Cowboys team we'll be playing. They ain't pushovers no more." Extra Point: The Dallas defense has not allowed a 100-yard rushing performance in 16 of its last 17 games. AMERICAN CONFERENCE Miami (5-1) at Indianapolis (2-4) The Colts have won four of the last five meetings and hope that Eric Dickerson settles into the offense to once again haunt the Dolphins. Extra Point: Jeff George, out for three games because of a pulled stomach muscle, is ready, but Jack Trudeau remains the Colts' starting quarterback. Buffalo (5-1) at New England (1-5) Advertisement The Patriots are on course for a second successive losing season for the first time in 17 years and are laboring with their worst start since finishing 2-14 in 1981. Extra Point: A rejuvenated James Lofton makes the speedy and strong Andre Reed (34 touchdown catches, 2 shy of the Bills' career record) more dangerous. INTERCONFERENCE Cleveland (2-5) at San Francisco (6-0) The Browns are reeling and Bud Carson is 12-12-1 since becoming their coach last year. Each week, especially after losses, Carson and Art Modell, the Browns' owner, have been quizzed about a coaching change. Extra Point: San Francisco won the last meeting, in 1987, by 38-24. Joe Montana passed for 342 yards and four touchdowns. Tampa Bay (4-3) at San Diego (2-5) Two yo-yo teams meet with Tampa Bay up the string this week. The Buccaneers have beaten Detroit twice and have lost to Dallas twice. San Diego's offense seeks a rebound after not scoring a touchdown against the Raiders in a 24-9 loss. Extra Point: Gary Anderson returns to San Diego Jack Murphy Stadium after sitting out last season in a contract dispute with the Chargers before being traded to Tampa Bay. MONDAY NIGHT Rams (2-4) at Pittsburgh (3-4) John Robinson said his team crawled out of hole after ending a three-game losing streak by beating the Falcons. Pittsburgh's defense is ranked third in the conference against the pass. Extra Point: Pitsburgh's tight end, Eric Green, has five touchdown catches, tying a club record for tight ends set by Roy Hilton in 1967. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 26, 1990, on Page A00030 of the National edition with the headline: N.F.L. Matchups: Week 8; Wyche and Glanville Square Off on Sunday.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »