Advertisement By NELSON BRYANT THE butt section of one of my fly rods is plastered with the tiny scales of snapper blues that will remain there for a season or two, reminding me of a fishing adventure with two of my grandsons, Morgan and Jesse Child. Morgan, who is 10, and Jesse who is 8, have been interested in angling for at least half of their years, but this summer it became a passion. When they couldn't get to the water they spent hours at practice casting in the yard. I have never believed that taking a kid fishing insures -- as some would have us believe -- that he or she will henceforth lead a wholesome life, but it probably won't do any harm and it is certainly fun for both the child and the graybeard. The only possible harm is that, grown to man or woman, the person captivated by angling might rather bring home a stringer of fish than a paycheck. The snappers that the boys, their father, Ken, and I caught were landlocked in Tisbury Great Pond, a body of water that is periodically opened to the ocean by man, to, among other things, maintain proper salinity for the oysters it contains. An onshore storm might close it again within a week or it might last for months. When it does close, a period of at least several weeks must ensue before the pond's level is raised by rain or snow and the streams that enter it. A good head of water is needed to make a success of the opening endeavor. Advertisement In spring, alewives come in through the opening to spawn and in late summer baby bluefish, or snappers, arrive. Unlike the alewives, they do not have procreation in mind. They are there to feed and to escape predation from larger fish, including their own parents. Advertisement If the opening closes after the snappers enter and before cold weather has sent them, as it does their parents, on their offshore and southward migrations, the pond can become a deathtrap, not a sanctuary. For a time after the opening closes, the little bluefish, now about 10 inches long, range all over it in pursuit, in the main, of silverside minnows. Unlike adult blues, snappers can thrive in water that is nearly fresh. In order to survive the winter, however, both adults and snappers must depart when the water temperature drops into the low 50's. That temperature is reached in both the pond and the ocean by mid-November. If the pond isn't reopened by that time -- and it won't be this year -- the snappers will perish. The opening closed in the third week in October this year, and, knowing that the little blues were in the pond, I took the boys and their father fishing a few days later. On that weekend, a northerly half-gale coupled with a 20-degree drop in temperature drove the snappers from the shallows and I couldn't locate them. The boys fished diligently for more than two hours, then amused themselves by running ahead of the occasional waves that washed over the beach into the pond. "Where do snappers go when it's cold?" asked Morgan. "I think," I replied, "that they go out into the middle of the pond, where the water on the bottom would be warmer than along the shore." "Then why don't we fish in the middle?" he asked. We followed his suggestion, but I had to stop when it got too rough for my outboard-powered canoe. The boys were depressed but perked up when, alongside the boathouse in Town Cove, I gave each a fly- casting lesson. Within 10 minutes, they became aware of the timing required and were reaching out about 30 feet. "When can we try for snappers again?" asked Jesse as we piled into the truck. "We may have to wait until next year," I replied.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. I was wrong. Summerlike weather returned the following Saturday and we were on the beach long before noon. The fishing was slow at first, but as the warmth of the sun poured down, schools of terrified silversides being pursued by the little bluefish erupted a few hundred yards offshore. From time to time, something I had never seen before, small groups of diving ducks, most appeared to be buffleheads, were also in the water chasing the bait fish and sending up bursts of spray, while herring gulls plunged down from above. Advertisement Ken and I captured 10 pounds of silversides with one haul of a minnow seine. We wanted them for bait in case lures didn't work well enough. I also wanted a mess of them for supper. Floured and fried in deep fat until brown, these little fish are a delicacy. They are consumed in toto: heads, tails, stomach contents and all. The cooking softens the bones. Although Ken and the boys sometimes used them as bait, the silversides weren't needed for that purpose. The snappers raced along the shore in droves until every cast with tiny Hopkins jigs was producing a fish or a hit. After an hour of this, I told the boys that we had to take stock, that we shouldn't kill more than we needed. I scaled and beheaded the snappers and Morgan gutted them with his fingers and washed them in a bucket of pond water, keeping a running count. "Is 48 too many, Gramp?" he asked. "Just about right. We've got to quit," I replied. "Gramp says to stop fishing," he shouted to the others. Jesse, who angles with the intensity of a male kingfisher with a mate and a just-born brood to feed, was unable to stop immediately. "Put your life jacket on," I said to him. "We've got to head home." He did as he was told, then seized his rod and made one more cast, hooking yet another fish. Morgan asked if we could troll for part of the trip home. "There might be some big bluefish out in the pond," he said. "For just a little way," I replied. "It's almost sunset time." Turning to his brother, who was seated beside him in the bottom of the canoe, Morgan said, "It's great to have a Gramp like this." "Yeah," responded Jesse, flipping his lure overboard. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 19, 1990, on Page C00011 of the National edition with the headline: Outdoors: Fond and Fun Tale of Fishing.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »