Advertisement By JOE LAPOINTE East Coast teams sometimes seem to fall off the edge of the Earth when they head west, especially when they spend the weekend playing night games on the other side of the continent. It's hard enough for fans to stay awake for the results, and sometimes harder to find them the next morning. Consider the coming schedule for the Islanders, who begin their three-game Western journey tonight in Edmonton. After practicing there tomorrow morning, they will fly to San Francisco tomorrow night, where they will stay for Saturday night's game against the San Jose Sharks. Sunday, after a few hours of sleep in San Francisco, they will fly to Vancouver, British Columbia, play the Canucks Sunday night, fly to Toronto after the game, change planes in Toronto at 6 A.M. Monday morning, fly to New York at sunrise, head home during the morning rush hour, and probably not feel much like practicing or doing much of anything else on Monday afternoon. Getting to Know Each Other Advertisement So why are so many of the Islanders looking forward to this trip? It would be an oversimplification to call it bonding, but that's probably part of it. Since the Day of Trades that brought six new players almost two weeks ago, the Islanders have been trying to get acquainted, on and off the ice. Advertisement After spending the next week together in airports, planes, hotels, buses, restaurants and locker rooms, Pierre Turgeon, Adam Creighton, Steve Thomas, Uwe Krupp, Benoit Hogue and Dave McLlwain may soon get to know more about their new co-workers than the names on the backs of their shirts. "Absolutely," said goalie Glenn Healy, who in his third season with New York and his fifth in the league is one of the senior Islanders. "There are some players they haven't even talked to yet. This will give all the players a chance to chat with guys from different parts of the country. We'll have some dinners together. Just a little bit of fun." Home Is a Hotel Creighton said the road trip would put the rest of the team on an equal footing with himself and the five other new men. "We've been staying in a hotel here for a week and a half," he said, referring to their temporary residence on Long Island. "All the rest of the guys will have to be with us, so it will be kind of nice to get out and know the guys a little more."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Creighton scored a goal in Tuesday night's 6-4 victory over injury-weakened Boston before 7,110 at the Coliseum. The victory ended a two-game losing streak and was the Islanders' second victory in their last 10 games. Contributions From New Players Thomas, who came with Creighton in the trade from Chicago, scored two goals and added two assists Monday night as all six new players got on the score sheet. Thomas moved from the left wing to the right side and played for the first time with Turgeon at center. Turgeon also scored two goals against the Bruins. Thomas said all the players "need a road trip to get a little closer. We're not as close as we'd like to be." Plus-Four for Krupp Advertisement Another new player who continues to be impressive is Uwe Krupp, the big defenseman acquired from Buffalo in the deal that sent Pat LaFontaine to the Sabres. Krupp had an assist Tuesday night and finished the game with a plus-four differential because he was on the ice for four Islander goals and no Boston goals. Coach Al Arbour juggled all the forward and defensive combinations Monday and might continue to shuffle the deck on the trip. "We're still tinkering," he said. "Time for our team to get together and play together and get a chance to know each other." SLAP SHOTS The Rangers said yesterday that forward SERGEI NEMCHINOV, who has eight goals this season, would be sidelined for an estimated three weeks with a sprained right knee he incurred during the third period of Monday night's 3-2 victory over the Calgary Flames. . . . The Rangers, who play the Montreal Canadiens at Madison Square Garden tonight, also announced that defenseman MARK HARDY had incurred a mild back sprain on Monday and would be observed on a day-to-day basis. . . . The team recalled defenseman JEFF BLOEMBERG from its Binghamton affiliate in the American Hockey League, where he had 10 assists in 10 games. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 6, 1991, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; Islanders Looking for Bond on the Road.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »