Advertisement  N.H.L. Flames End Bruins' Streak Brian MacLellan and Sergei Makarov scored less than two minutes apart late in the first period and the Calgary Flames ended Boston's home winning streak at seven games last night with a 4-1 victory over the Bruins. In their third victory in the last four starts, the Flames dominated Boston, the Adams Division leader, outshooting the Bruins by 24-9 in the first two periods and by 31-18 in the game. Tim Hunter gave Calgary a 3-0 lead late in the second period before Graeme Townshend spoiled the shutout bid by the goalie, Mike Vernon, with his second goal of the season in the third period. (AP) Canucks 2, Flyers 1: Troy Gamble turned away 36 shots as Vancouver beat Philadelphia, giving the Canucks only their third victory in 20 games. The loss was the Flyers' third in a row. The Canucks are 3-15-2 in their last 20 games. Vancouver scored first when Trevor Linden's wrist shot from the right face-off circle eluded the Philadelphia goaltender, Ron Hextall, at 6:51 of the opening period at Philadelphia. Linden leads the Canucks in points (44) and goals (24). Dan Quinn made the score 2-0 when he scored his 10th goal of the season on the power play in the final period. Quinn slipped a rebound past Hextall at 9:55. The Flyers scored at 14:33 of the third period. Norm Lacombe took a pass alone in the slot and beat Gamble for his eighth goal of the season. (AP) Canadiens 5, Nordiques 1: Guy Carbonneau set up second-period goals by Mike McPhee and Russ Courtnall as Montreal broke a tie and went on to beat the Nordiques at Quebec. Andrew Cassels, Shayne Corson and Denis Savard had the other goals for the Canadiens. The only Nordique to beat the Canadiens' goaltender, Jean-Claude Bergeron, was the Soviet defenseman, Aleksei Gusarov, Quebec's eighth pick in the 1988 draft. Gusarov got his first National Hockey League goal, tying the score 1-1 in the first period. (AP) North Stars 4, Maple Leafs 2: In Bloomington, Minn., Brian Bellows had his fourth two-goal game in the last three and a half weeks, putting him within 1 of 300 career goals, as Minnesota took a major step toward making the N.H.L. playoffs by beating Toronto. The North Stars, 5-2-1 in their last eight games, moved 11 points ahead of last-place Toronto in the Norris Division. Minnesota, 16-5-8 when allowing 3 or fewer goals, has a four-game home winning streak for the first time since winning eight in a row in November 1989. Toronto remained 3 points ahead of Quebec, the N.H.L.'s worst team. (AP) We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 8, 1991, on Page A00022 of the National edition with the headline: RESULTS PLUS.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »