Advertisement  AFTER the game yesterday, as the Raider players silently cleaved the tape and the uniforms from their battered persons in the silent, sweaty and cramped locker room, Al Davis, the owner and the long-time spirit of the team, went over and spoke to some of his players. It is not easy to say something to one who has just absorbed one of the worst drubbings in the history of pro football championship games, which the Raiders did, losing to the Bills in the American Football Conference title game here in Rich Stadium, 51-3. But Davis, in black-and-silver Raider jacket, was valiant. He put his hand on the shoulder of Tim Brown, the wide receiver, and uttered a few words. When he left, Brown was asked what Davis had said. "I don't know, to be honest," said Brown. "I think it was something like 'We'll get 'em' or 'We'll be back.' " It had been that kind of afternoon. It was as hard to follow the owner's words of solace as it was to follow the no-huddle offense of the Bills. Advertisement The Bills were a remarkable team yesterday. Not only were they effective, they were fast. Every time they got their hands on the ball, they seemed in such a hurry that they had no time to talk about it. Most teams do something and then, as P. G. Wodehouse once noted, stand around in a circle and discuss it. Not yesterday. Not the Bills. Advertisement They threw a pass and then ran back to line up immediately and run the ball. Or pass it. Sometimes when a Bill was knocked on his back, one of his fellows extended a paw to get him up and back to rush through another play. The Bills seemed late for an appointment. They seemed like Mike Tyson, who climbs into a ring without a robe and without socks, as though he had so much lust to clobber his opponent that he couldn't take time for such incidentals. If they had played musical chairs, the Bills would have whipped the Raiders as badly. "I never say anything after a game, win or lose," Davis said to a sportswriter in the locker room. "I leave that to Art." That is, Art Shell, the Raider coach. "All I can say is, the Bills were excellent and did a super job." But he did drop by Marcus Allen's cubicle. "Nice try," he said. "Sorry." And he gave words of encouragement to Jay Schroeder, the bedeviled Raider quarterback, who needed them. It seemed that any time Schroeder saw anyone clear, he threw it to him. And it didn't matter which uniform the player was wearing. Poor Schroeder threw five interceptions. "I'm not going to try to assess his game right now," said Shell about Schroeder. "It was just the kind of game in which they did everything right, and we didn't. The way they were going, I don't know if anything could have stopped them. We knew what they were going to do, and I thought we had prepared well for it. But it's not the scheme, it's the personnel. And they executed." The game hadn't been much of a game, but it had been a game, which was to say that while a war was being waged, grown men were going around running into each other, while 80,000 people cheered in the stands, and millions more watched on television. And while there were breaks for news, and reports of missile attacks, the fans continued on with their lives, and their entertainment, though with war obviously still on their minds.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. American flags flew from cars that had come early to tailgate in the stadium parking lot. And so many hand-flags were waved during the singing of the national anthem before the game that it looked like a huge gathering for Fourth of July festivities. And along with some of the typical banners urging on the home team there were those that read "God Bless Our Troops" and "Our U.S. Allies Are the Real Champions." Advertisement Wherever one went in Buffalo and environs before yesterday's game, however, people were spending what seemed an inordinate amount of time determining what Bo Jackson knew, or what Bo didn't know. Bo had become a symbol for an entire team, the disparaged opponents, those would-be California ruffians. Hot sellers in downtown shops were sweatshirts that read, "Bo Don't Know Snow." Signs in store windows read: "Bo Don't Know Buffalo." And at Rich Stadium, banners were displayed that read: "Bo Don't Know the Way to Tampa," a reference to the destination of the winner of this American Football Conference championship game. And: "Bo Knows Sidelines!" Vincent Edward Jackson, star of backfields, outfields and television commercials, didn't actually sit out the whole game, he stood it out, wearing, as he watched, a black overcoat, Raider black, in the cold rain and snow. Jackson had suffered a hip injury in the game last week and not until the day before the game was it decided that Bo would not suit up. Would Bo have made a difference if he had played? "Well," said Jim Plunkett, the former Raider quarterback and now a radio analyst for a Los Angeles station, "if Bo could have played defense, maybe." And he smiled, for yesterday, 10 Bo's might not have been able to step on Bills' toes. And for three hours many took a respite to a degree from the agonies of the Persian Gulf. The questions were about attacks, to be sure, but more narrow: why were the Bills' so muscular and the Raiders' so limp? Another question occurred when observing Jackson on the sideline. He didn't have to subject his body in his team's crushing defeat. And so one wondered: What did Bo know, and when did he know it? We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 21, 1991, on Page C00006 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; For the Raiders, No Huddle Was No Fun.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »