Advertisement By MICHAEL MARTINEZ and  The afternoon had begun to evolve into another long and unrewarding day for Rickey Henderson. In the first inning, he reached first base and was thrown out trying to steal. In the second, he took a called third strike. The wait continued. But finally, in the fourth inning today, Henderson got to first base, advanced to second, then dashed and dived headfirst into baseball's record book, where Lou Brock had been waiting for 12 years. When it was over -- when Henderson had finally swiped third base to become baseball's career stolen base leader with 939 steals -- he lifted his arms in triumph, offered hugs all around and later talked about celebrating by opening a bottle of champagne he had been saving since he graduated from high school in 1976. "I've got to pop it tonight," he said. It was time. Three days after he tied Brock's record and one day after he failed to break it against the Yankees, Henderson stole into first place in the midst of the Oakland Athletics' 7-4 victory over the Yankees. Advertisement Despite being thrown out by catcher Matt Nokes in the first -- Nokes also caught him in the fifth -- Henderson broke the record with Harold Baines at bat and Tim Leary on the mound. On Leary's first pitch, a changeup, Nokes bounced a throw in the dirt and Henderson slid into the bag without a tag attempt from third baseman Randy Velarde. Advertisement "I said to myself: 'It's all over. You're No. 1,' " Henderson recalled. "A lot of pressure left me at that moment, like I was 50 pounds lighter. There had been so much pressure to get it done." Then he pulled the bag from its mooring, held it high above his head, waved to a crowd of 36,139 at the Oakland Coliseum and greeted his mother, Bobbie Henderson, with a long embrace. "I hadn't given up," she said later. "But when he was laying on the base, I was worrying if he was hurt a little bit."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Henderson was fine. The game was halted for eight minutes as Brock came onto the field and toasted Henderson, saying, "Today, you are the greatest competitor that ever ran the bases in the big leagues." Henderson hardly refused the compliment. He told the crowd, "Lou Brock is the symbol of great base stealing, but today I'm the greatest of all time." There was no argument. Henderson broke the record early in his 13th season; Brock needed 19 to reach his total. Henderson, who has three steals this season, owns the A's and Yankee team records for career stolen bases and said he could extend the record to 1,200, perhaps more. There were rewards, too. The A's said they would contribute $75,000 to various charitable organizations in Henderson's name and would give the left fielder a sports car for his achievement.<>  <> During the ceremonies on the field, Henderson thanked the A's, his mother and the city of Oakland, and also thanked two of his former managers, Tom Trebelhorn and Billy Martin. Trebelhorn, the Milwaukee Brewers' manager, was Henderson's first manager in the minors and has been credited by the player for teaching him the finer points of base stealing. Of Martin, who managed him with the A's and the Yankees, Henderson said: "Billy Martin was a great manager. I love you, Billy. I wish you were here." Martin was killed in an auto accident on Christmas Day 1989. Advertisement For the Yankees, Henderson's feat was just a milestone to watch and admire. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 2, 1991, on Page B00017 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Safe! Henderson Steals No. 939, and Brock Is Out.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »