Advertisement By SCOTT CACCIOLAMARCH 5, 2014
 ELLISVILLE, Miss. —  The energy in the home locker room at A.B. Howard Gymnasium was slightly more charged than usual on a cold Monday night last month. The men’s basketball team at Jones County Junior College, a two-year school in this small farming community, miles from nowhere, was minutes from the opening tip of a big game against Pearl River Community College, and Coach Jay Ladner was dusting off some of his finest material. “Gentlemen,” he said, “I’m going to be frank. I’m going to be disappointed if Pearl River, of all people, ruins our senior night. You’re going to have to live the rest of your lives with people asking you about the season. ‘Well, we did all right, except Pearl River beat our butts on senior night.’ ” His speech — a bit of a basketball sermon, really — had the intended effect. His players bounced on their toes. They clapped and hollered. Pearl River was coming here expecting to win? No, sir, not happening. The Bobcats looked ready to plow through a brick wall, or at least dunk the opposition into smithereens. It was quite a moment, especially considering that three of Ladner’s top players — Leroy Fludd, Bryce Jones and Thaddeus Hall — had never heard of Pearl River Community College until last summer. Or even Jones County, for that matter, which was understandable: All three are from Brooklyn. Advertisement “This,” Fludd said, “is the last place I thought I’d be at.” They arrived here as freshmen in the fall, their mutual struggles with academics leaving them little choice but to delay their dreams of playing Division I basketball. At Jones County, they have excelled. The Bobcats are 20-5 ahead of their game Thursday against Southwest Mississippi Community College in the first round of the National Junior College Athletic Association’s Region 23 tournament in Clinton, Miss. Advertisement They are a team of outliers. No other program in Jones County’s 15-team conference — the Mississippi Association of Community and Junior Colleges — has even one player from New York, let alone three, though that could change. Ladner said he had heard from other coaches who were suddenly curious about how these young men wound up in Ellisville, of all places. “I think people are starting to realize that, gosh, there are certainly more than three of these guys up there in New York,” he said. “We’ll go grab some of our own.” Each team in the conference is allowed only three non-Mississippi players on its roster. Fludd, a rugged forward who goes by the nickname Truck, and Jones, the starting point guard, were teammates at Boys and Girls High School in Bedford-Stuyvesant, where they helped the team to a state championship as seniors. Hall, a swingman from Coney Island, was a standout at Thomas Jefferson High School in East New York, Brooklyn. They have known one another for years. A Year at a Prep School They were together last season at Believe Prep Academy, a prep school in Rock Hill, S.C., where they had hoped to meet the academic requirements for scholarships at big-time college programs. They came up short. Tyson Waterman, the coach at Believe Prep, had developed a relationship with Ladner, and he recommended Jones County: go there, do good things, then move on. “They’re all here for a reason,” said Sai’Quon Stone, one of Ladner’s assistant coaches. “They understand they messed up. I think it just makes them hungrier.” Their stories resonate with Stone because they are so similar to his. He also grew up in Brooklyn, where he attended Xaverian High School, and spent a year at a prep school in North Carolina before he was eligible to play at Southern Mississippi. Stone, who joined Ladner’s staff this season, said he had probably learned more from the players than they had from him. “We’ve been through so much,” he said. “Coach Ladner recruited a bunch of alpha males. To get all these guys to buy into the system, it’s a tribute to him.” Advertisement Fludd, Hall and Jones live together in Greene Hall, in a room with cinder-block walls and linoleum tile. Their residence lacks obvious frills, aside from a communal suitcase of ramen noodles and an industrial-size box of Donut Sticks. Hall keeps a poster of the Detroit Pistons’ Brandon Jennings above his bed. The room was designed to accommodate two people, but the three wanted to stick together. They felt it would help with the transition. So Ladner went out and found a bunk bed through an old high school friend who works at Camp Shelby, a military installation in Hattiesburg. Fludd and Jones eventually disassembled it so that their mattresses — officially on loan from the government — would be side by side. Fludd snores. Hall talks in his sleep. Somehow, they make it work. “That’s the reason I chose to come here, so I could be around these guys,” Jones said. “I didn’t want to start out as a newborn somewhere else. I just wanted to feel comfortable.” Nick Vazquez, a guard who grew up in Brooklyn before relocating to Mississippi as a high school freshman, lives two doors down. “Back home, there’s so much noise,” said Vazquez, who is sitting out the season because he enrolled in January. “Here, there’s a whole bunch of nothing going on.” Little Distraction He meant that in a good way. The pace of life can be languid. Ellisville (population: 4,448) has a laser tag establishment, whose importance to the players is difficult to overstate. Weekends often entail the 22-mile drive to Hattiesburg, which has a movie theater and several chain restaurants that the players frequent. They also hang with friends who play at Southern Mississippi.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Beyond that, though, there is little to distract them from basketball and schoolwork. Fludd considers Catfish Friday at the dining hall to be one of the highlights of his week. More important, he said he had been using his time here to grow up and find his voice. “I’m not next to my mother anymore,” he said. “She can’t baby me. I had to learn on my own.” Fludd has become such a charismatic presence on campus that fans brought truck horns to one of the team’s recent home games, brandishing them whenever he dunked. These periodic horn blasts gave him more incentive than usual. The Bobcats average 88.3 points a game. “We’re competing to win,” he said, “but I’m still going to put on a show.” Far from fostering resentment, the spotlight on the Brooklyn players seems to have helped build team camaraderie. Johnny Zuppardo, a forward from Kiln, Miss., and the team’s second-leading scorer behind Hall, said they had given the team more personality. Zuppardo, who refers to them as his “brothers,” said he planned to visit them in New York this summer. He wants to play at Harlem’s famed Rucker Park. “They bring a whole different flavor to everything,” Zuppardo said. Advertisement Ladner typically speaks once or twice a week at civic clubs in nearby towns like Waynesboro and Laurel, and he said audience members were peppering him with the same question at the start of the season: What was the story with these kids from New York? Ladner quickly made it a habit to try to bring at least one of them along whenever he has an engagement. “I guess I’m there,” Ladner said, “but everyone would rather talk to the players.” Often, people simply want to know how they are getting along. Are they liking school? Are they enjoying themselves? Do they feel at home? “I tell my guys, ‘As long as you treat people nicely, they will bend over backward to make your stay here warmer,’ ” Ladner said. “You can have the greatest two years of your life here.” Elevating the Program Ladner and his staff have sought to elevate the men’s basketball program — which dates to 1928 — beyond its humble roots in its conference. He knows this is a temporary place for the players, a pit stop on the way to bigger programs. Even Stone took advantage of an opportunity to move on, leaving two weeks ago to play for the Warrnambool Seahawks of the Australian Basketball Association. So Ladner does what he can. The emblem on the Bobcats’ warm-ups is modeled after the Utah Jazz’s logo, and their uniforms bear a vague resemblance to those worn by the Los Angeles Lakers. In addition, their games are streamed online through the school’s website, a perk for relatives who live far away. Fludd, whose engraved nameplate above his locker says, “Truck,” wears No. 23 as a homage to his idol, LeBron James, who now wears No. 6. Thanks to countless hours of YouTube viewing, Fludd knows James’s workout routines by rote. That is the dream, of course, to join James at the highest level, though there are days it must feel unattainable, the gulf between these bandbox gymnasiums and the star-filled arenas of the N.B.A. stretching beyond comprehension. “I think you get more successful when you’re somewhere you don’t really want to be,” Fludd said. After he was named the Public School Athletic League’s player of the year at Boys and Girls High School, Fludd committed to Rutgers. Poor grades derailed those plans — a problem that is not uncommon among players in the P.S.A.L. Given a second chance at Believe Prep, he needed to complete the school year with a 2.5 grade-point average, he said. He finished with a 2.3. This is a theme among them: one grade shy, one class short. Hall, who spent two of his teenage years living in a homeless shelter, had committed to play at South Carolina before failing to meet the N.C.A.A.’s requirements as a high school senior. Advertisement “Oh my God, I cried,” he said. “I didn’t even want to play basketball anymore after that.” As for Jones, he said he was scheduled to take the SAT on the same day that his high school team had a state tournament game. He skipped the test. At Jones County, he appears to have found his footing. In the fall semester, he had the highest grade-point average on the team. Ladner sees progress. “We’re trying to do the very best we can for them while they’re in our care,” he said. A Win and a Reminder Before Jones County’s game against Pearl River last month, a company based in Hattiesburg made a donation to the team: a 2011 Chevrolet Equinox. Ladner accepted the keys in a small ceremony near midcourt and posed for photographs, but his thoughts were elsewhere. Once the game started, he looked like a man in pain — a deep and unremitting type of pain. He pleaded with his reserves whenever the team committed a turnover, as if they could do anything about it. He buried his face in his hands. He barked and grimaced, even as the Bobcats pulled away for a 66-54 victory. Fludd finished with 17 points and Jones had 9 assists. Hall watched from behind the bench as he awaited surgery to have three teeth pulled. He was not feeling great. In the locker room afterward, Jones stood to address his teammates. He reminded everyone to keep working hard. The team had goals. So did the players. “Stay focused,” he said. “Be humble. You got to make that money someday. That’s what it’s all about: make that money.” Jones, like Fludd and Hall, never expected — or necessarily wanted — to be at a school like Jones County, this strange place that has changed them. Only the game has stayed the same. A version of this article appears in print on March 6, 2014, on Page B10 of the New York edition with the headline: Mississippi Hoops, Brooklyn Style.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »