Advertisement By MICHAEL MARTINEZ and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES Bill Fitch looked at the columns of numbers on the post-game statistics sheet tonight and seemed pleased. But it was still another loss in a week that was full of them. In the end, the Nets lost their third game in a row, this time, 123-119, to the surging Denver Nuggets. Still, there was a small but significant silver lining. They hadn't looked dreadful. "Everybody was packing up and getting ready to go home," Fitch, the Nets coach, said in the aftermath at McNichols Arena. "They thought we were out of it. We just needed one more nail to get it done." But the Nets, having led while there were still two minutes left in the game, succumbed down the stretch. The Nuggets turned critical mistakes into baskets, then converted free throws that held off the Nets. Triple-Double for Adams Advertisement Michael Adams, the Denver guard, scored 32 points in the second half and finished with a career-high 45. By the third quarter he already had his first career triple-double, ending the night with 11 rebounds and 12 assists. Advertisement "When you get on a roll like this," Adams said, "all you're trying to think about is being as confident and consistent as you can be. You feel like you can make every shot. The guys started looking for me, and I made them." Then there was Mookie Blaylock, who endured another bad offensive game. The Net point guard was 1 for 14 from the floor and is a collective 5 for 32 in his last three games. Blaylock, who finished with 2 points, was not even in the game in the final minutes. 'You Get Mad' "The shots I took, I should have hit," he said. "They're going to fall eventually. You get mad, but you never get frustrated, because in my mind, I know I can hit them."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Nets' offense was left to others. Reggie Theus had 28, Derrick Coleman 23 (and 16 rebounds), Chris Morris 22 and Draven Petrovic 22 off the bench. In the fourth quarter, Petrovic hit two successive 3-pointers that brought the Nets from 10 points down to a 107-105 lead. With less than three minutes to go, his jumper made the score 109-107, and the Nets pushed the lead to 4 points on free throws by Coleman and Morris. But it ended there. Reggie Williams, who scored 28 for the Nuggets, drove the lane for a basket and later hit two free throws after he was fouled by Chris Dudley, who fouled out. Two Costly Turnovers With the score tied, the Nets then committed two big turnovers. A bad pass by Morris allowed the Nuggets to take possession, and Joe Wolf's hook over Coleman with 1 minute 9 seconds left gave Denver the lead again, 113-111. Then Williams stole the ball from Theus and drove the length of the court for a basket. Morris fouled him, and the free throw made the score 116-111 with 42 seconds remaining. If nothing else, the Nets at least showed some signs of reviving themselves after two lopsided losses. But they started poorly, scoring just 16 points in the first quarter -- the fourth time in nine quarters they had been held to less than 20 -- and missing 10 consecutive shots at one point. The victory was the Nuggets' fifth in a row, coming after a poor start that sank them to the bottom of the Midwest Division. They also continued to have their way with the Nets, who are 1-17 in Denver. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 1, 1991, on Page A00023 of the National edition with the headline: PRO BASKETBALL; Good Numbers for Nets (Except for Final Score).  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »