Advertisement By WILLIAM N. WALLACE and  When the prognostications about the college lacrosse season were being made back in March, a few knowledgeable forecasters around Baltimore were touting Towson State. "Watch out," said Dave Cottle, the Loyola of Baltimore coach. "They can go all the way to the N.C.A.A. final." His sentiments were seconded by Quint Kessenich, the former Johns Hopkins all-America goalie. Towson State, he said, had "the right players and enough of them." Listeners scoffed. Towson State, a suburban commuter school, had almost always ranked last among the four lacrosse powers of the state -- behind Johns Hopkins, Loyola and Maryland -- and the players were an all-but-anonymous group passed over in the recruiting competition. Not So Dumb After All Advertisement But Cottle and Kessenich turned out to be seers because Towson State is now in the final game of the National Collegiate Athletic Association's Division I tournament and ready to take on undefeated and top-ranked North Carolina for the title at noon Monday in the Carrier Dome. Advertisement This is a lofty position for Towson State and its coach of 24 seasons, Carl Runk. Only once before, in 1989, were the Tigers good enough to be included in the Division I tournament. They faced North Carolina that time, too, losing in a first-round game. Since they began competing at the Division I level in 1980, the Tigers have beaten Johns Hopkins and Maryland only once apiece in regular season play. They lost to both schools, and to Loyola, during the recent season but got a measure of revenge Saturday, beating the Terps, 15-11, in one of the playoff semifinals.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. As for North Carolina, it won its 15th game in a row impressively by turning back three-time defending champion Syracuse, 19-13, in the other semifinal. Towson State, seeded 11th in the 12-team tournament, proved it belonged in this tournament with earlier 14-13 victories over Virginia and Princeton. Runk, after the first victory, said: "Our kids did something a lot of people didn't think they could do by beating Virginia." Runk, after the triple-overtime decision over No. 3 Princeton, said: "This game could never have been recommended by the coronary-care unit of any hospital in America. Our biggest game." Towson State's stars are John Blatchley and Glenn Smith from Baltimore and Richie Betcher from Coram, L.I. Blatchley is a feeder, Smith a scorer and Betcher a smart goaltender. Like his North Carolina opposite, Andy Piazza of Oceanside, L.I., Betcher was a transfer from Nassau Community College. In a concurrent event, the most renowned players of the past decade, the Gait twins from British Columbia, were in action late today. The Syracuse stars of 1987-1990 scored nine goals for Team Canada, seven by Gary and two by Paul, in an international match played at Syracuse's Coyne Field. Still, the Gaits' efforts fell short. The United States Elite squad of former college stars won the game, 23-22. The game's last shot, by Gary Gait, was blocked. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on May 27, 1991, on Page 1001026 of the National edition with the headline: LACROSSE; Towson Isn't a Surprise to Everyone.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »