Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 14, 2014
 Henrik Lundqvist stopped 30 shots to tie a team record for career wins, and his fellow Swede Carl Hagelin scored three goals to lift the Rangers to a 4-2 road victory over the Winnipeg Jets on Friday night. Lundqvist tied the mark of 301 wins set by the Stanley Cup winner Mike Richter. Lundqvist will have a chance to break the record at home Sunday against San Jose. Chris Kreider also scored for the Rangers (36-28-4). The team went 1-2 on a three-game trip, bouncing back from a 2-1 loss at Minnesota on Thursday. The Rangers took a 1-0 lead on their third shot of the game. Dustin Byfuglien and Andrew Ladd scored for the Jets (30-29-9), who have lost six straight and are fighting to keep their playoff hopes alive. The Jets failed to earn a point, as they had in three of the previous five losses. Advertisement PANTHERS 5, DEVILS 3 Scottie Upshall scored the go-ahead goal, and Florida beat the visiting Devils. Vincent Trocheck, Brad Boyes, Quinton Howden and Brian Campbell also scored for Florida. Roberto Luongo stopped 28 shots. Jonathan Huberdeau had two assists, and Boyes also had an assist. Advertisement Patrik Elias had a goal and an assist for the Devils, and Bryce Salvador and Jaromir Jagr also scored. Cory Schneider made 17 saves.   SHARKS 4, ISLANDERS 3 Matt Nieto and Jason Demers scored first-period goals, and visiting San Jose made the most of 26 shots in a win over the Islanders. Anders Lee, Brock Nelson and Frans Nielsen scored for the Islanders, who lost for the fifth time in six home games. The Islanders’ 9-17-8 home record is the worst in the N.H.L.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Evgeni Nabokov stopped 22 shots for the Islanders in his first start against his former team. FLAMES 4, STARS 3 Mike Cammalleri had two goals, Corban Knight scored the winner in a shootout, and Calgary erased a two-goal deficit in the third period to beat host Dallas. RED WINGS 2, OILERS 1 Tomas Tatar scored on Detroit’s third shootout attempt, and Jimmy Howard stopped all three Edmonton attempts to lift the Red Wings to a win at home over the Oilers. CAPITALS 4, CANUCKS 3 Mike Green scored the go-ahead goal in the third period, and Evgeny Kuznetsov had three assists for his first N.H.L. points in Washington’s home victory over Vancouver. PREDATORS 3, BLACKHAWKS 2 Roman Josi had three assists, Ryan Ellis scored in the third period, and Nashville beat host Chicago for its third consecutive win. MEDAL FOR BACKSTROM Washington Capitals center Nicklas Backstrom, who also plays for Sweden, will receive an Olympic silver medal even though he was suspended from the final at the Sochi Games after a positive drug test. The International Olympic Committee found that Backstrom had not intended to enhance his performance. A version of this article appears in print on March 15, 2014, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: Lundqvist Ties Team Win Record as Rangers Top Jets.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »