Advertisement By FILIP BONDY Coming off the Queensboro Bridge, looping into the megadecibel madness of First Avenue on Marathon Sunday, Salvador Garcia of Mexico broke away after 16 miles of communal racing. It was the sort of move that would define yesterday's New York City Marathon, and it left two pack runners, Andres Espinoza of Mexico and Ibrahim Hussein of Kenya, with a very important question to answer very quickly: Was Garcia for real, or was he foolishly responding to the patriotic chants and exhortations of Mexican-Americans en route? "There were so many people cheering on First Avenue," Hussein said, "I just thought he was responding to the crowd. I have run this race before, so I let him go. I was wrong. It was a very good move." Hussein's miscalculation soon translated into tens, then hundreds of unrecoverable yards. Garcia cruised to a 2-hour-9-minute-28-second victory to lead a startling Mexican revolution in men's road racing. In a single day, Mexican marathoners finished first, second and fifth in the New York Marathon and first and second places in the Marine Corps Marathon in the Washington area. Advertisement "I always believed that Mexico had the best marathoners in the world," Garcia said. "Sometimes, we weren't responsible enough in training. Now, we are more committed." Advertisement This new-found dedication was on display yesterday for what the police estimated were 2.2 million spectators, on a golden 50-degree autumn day in New York City's five bustling boroughs. Nearly 26,000 runners entered the race and at the end, Garcia, a Mexican Army sergeant who dedicated his victory to President Carlos Salinas de Gortari and the Defense Minister, Gen. Antonio Riviello Bazan, of Mexico, waved his white gloves to supporters and crossed the finish line with a one-tenth-of-a-mile lead. Espinoza had trained with Garcia in the high altitudes of Nevado de Toluca outside Mexico City. Unlike Hussein, Espinoza understood that Garcia's move on First Avenue was for real. He just couldn't do anything about it. "At first, I decided to follow," Espinoza said. "But then I understood he was stronger." Espinoza settled for second place, in 2:10:00; Hussein, the winner of the Boston Marathon in April and a gracious loser yesterday, was third in 2:11:07. Peter Maher of Canada was fourth in 2:11:55, and Isidrio Rico of Mexico was fifth in 2:11:58. For 26.2 miles and just over two hours, the Mexican-American fans cheered louder than anyone around them, with good reason. It was finally their race yesterday, their turn, after second-place finishes here by Rudolfo Gomez in 1980 and 1982, and Garcia's second-place finish last year. "They were yelling, 'Go, go, Salvador, and Go, go Mexico,' " Garcia said. "It made this race very interesting for me."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Some fans swarmed Garcia after the race, and others gave Espinoza a wide-brimmed hat. Both runners are trying to earn one of three Olympic spots on an incredibly strong national team, so yesterday's times were both career bests and potential career makers. The 31-year-old Garcia won $20,000 and a new Mercedes for finishing first, and an additional $35,000 for breaking 2:10. Garcia, who ran last year with head shorn and blisters welling on his feet, said he knew he would win this year. "I was psychologically and physically ready to break everybody," he said. What? Hussein Worry? First, there was the matter of putting some miles behind him. For half the race, a lead pack of 10 runners set a tactical pace that kept most of the top contenders involved. The time at the 14-mile mark, 1:08:56, was not particularly fast, considering the near-perfect temperatures and merely annoying breezes. Advertisement By the Queensboro Bridge, the top group had been slimmed to five and 1989 champion Juma Ikangaa of Tanzania was not among them. Hussein was growing in confidence, because he believed his chief competition had been eliminated. "I wasn't worried about the Mexicans, I was worried about two or three others," Hussein said. "From now on, I will worry." Big Year for Mexican Runners So will the world. Already this year, Maurilio Castillo of Mexico won Tokyo in 2:10:47, and his countryman Dionisio Ceron finished second at Rotterdam in 2:10:02. In the Marine run yesterday, Carlos Rivas won in 2:17:54 and Rene Guerrero was second in 2:21:11. "They took racing for granted before in Mexico," Garcia said. "Now, I think, they won't." Garcia, wrapped in silver and limping the limp of the marathon winner after the race, said his only regret was losing last year to Douglas Wakiihuri of Kenya. It had been the blisters, he said. That was all. Garcia was not modest about this, or about his new, dark-haired appearance. "I think I look better, and have a better personality," he said. Along First Avenue yesterday, they definitely noticed. THE LAST MILE SALVADOR GARCIA'S time was more than a minute off the New York best, 2:08:01 by Juma Ikangaa of Kenya in 1989. The world best is 2:06:50, run by Belayneh Densimo of Ethiopa in Rotterdam in 1988. ANDRES ESPINOSA could have earned an extra $5,000 and some status had he not eased up at the finish and lost his chance to finish under 2:10. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 4, 1991, on Page C00001 of the National edition with the headline: NEW YORK CITY MARATHON; Surprise! Garcia Takes First In Marathon.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »