Advertisement By CLIFTON BROWN When the 1991-92 Knicks finally erupted, it was sudden, it was spontaneous, it was scintillating. And it was exactly what they needed to end the funk that had engulfed them for their first two games. Outscoring Milwaukee, 40-13, in the third period, New York rolled to its first victory of the season last night, winning by 113-85 in its home opener before 15,768 fans at Madison Square Garden. It was the kind of night Pat Riley envisioned when he became the Knick coach. It was fast breaks that ended with ferocious dunks. It was in-your-face defense that created havoc and steals. It was impressive. Now the Knicks will try to build on it. "After the weekend, they were committed to come home and have a great home opener," Riley said. "Obviously, it was a great win for us. I think our defense has been consistent, but it wasn't until the defense started creating offensive opportunities that we got things going." McDaniel and Jackson Star Advertisement Watching Xavier McDaniel and Mark Jackson respond pleased the Knicks almost as much as winning the game. Both players had been struggling. In this game, they were outstanding. McDaniel finished with game highs in both rebounds, 13, and points, 28, making 12 of 17 shots from the field. Playing more aggressively and looking for his shot, McDaniel resembled the offensive force he had been earlier throughout his career. He was held to 11 points in each of the New York losses. Advertisement "People have talked about me not scoring, but I didn't put any extra pressure on myself," McDaniel said. "It's a team thing. Charles Oakley set the picks, Mark got me the ball. Everything I achieve is from a team standpoint. I'm just happy that we won and that we played the way we're capable of." Jackson finished with 16 points, 9 assists and 4 steals. Coming off two terrible performances, the starting point guard looked more relaxed and confident playng before the home fans. Did Jackson need this game? Does a person stranded in the desert need water? "It's a relief to get that first win," Jackson said. "We think we're a good basketball team, but we hadn't shown it by the way we played. I just wanted to contribute to a win. And it feels good. I think this is something we can build on. We've been working awfully hard and tonight it finally resulted in a victory." 42-41 Lead at Halftime The rout began with New York holding a slim 42-41 halftime lead. Whatever Riley said at halftime should be recorded and played back when needed.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Nothing earth-shattering was said," Riley said. "We picked the defense up a little bit, extended it higher. We got some steals, we got some layups, we got some breaks. We have to get easy baskets. We have to get about 15 or 20 layups a game to make up for some other deficiences." The Knicks opened the third quarter with a 6-0 run, forcing Bucks Coach Del Harris to call timeout. That was a waste of time. Jackson and Gerald Wilkins played defense on the perimeter with controlled fury. Patrick Ewing (24 points, 3 rebounds) clogged the middle, and the front line grabbed every rebound off the glass. The result was a 28-7 run that pushed the Knicks' 54-43 lead to an insurmountable 82-50 advantage late in the third quarter. For New York, the points came in bunches. Jackson made three steals that led to lauups. Milwaukee went 2 minutes 56 seconds without scoring midway through the third quarter. Then late in the period, the Bucks had another scoring drought that lasted 3:03. This was a Bucks team that came into the game at 2-0, with victories over Detroit and Chicago. But Jay Humphries and Dale Ellis led Milwaukee's scorers with just 14 points apiece. Advertisement "They just came off a two-game losing streak and they had something to prove," Ellis said. "They did." Now the Knicks no longer have to talk about their losing streak. Now they can concentrate on trying to start a winning streak. "What we've been trying to do all season, we achieved in the third quarter," Wilkins said. "Now I can sleep tonight." REBOUNDS The Knicks broke a six-game losing streak against Milwaukee, beating the Bucks for the first time since March 30, 1990. . . . PATRICK EWING has 12 blocked shots in the first three games. . . . New York has won three of its last four home openers. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 6, 1991, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: BASKETBALL; Garden Does the Trick as Knicks Trounce Bucks.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »