Advertisement By THOMAS ROGERS Come rain, snow or sleet, a gala 25th anniversary party will be observed in grand Texas style tomorrow night in Houston, when the Astrodome will be a quarter of a century old. The world's first domed stadium opened on April 9, 1965, with the Astros defeating the Yankees, 2-1, in an exhibition game before 47,876 fans, including President and Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson. Mickey Mantle delivered the Astrodome's first hit, a game-opening single to center, and he also belted the first indoor homer, off Dick (Turk) Farrell. Players from the 1965 game will stage a three-inning old-timers' exhibition before Houston opens its season against the Cincinnati Reds. Among the original participants will be the former Yankee manager Ralph Houk, and such former Yankee players as Bobby Richardson, Clete Boyer, Tom Tresh and Joe Pepitone, as well as one of the most famous Astros, Jimmy Wynn. Twenty-five 20-foot candles will sit atop the domed stadium which will be adorned in rainbow-colored banners with 10,000 17-inch helium balloons attached to access ramps. Pieces of a giant birthday cake will be handed out to fans. Advertisement All the hoopla will honor what Texans once called the Eighth Wonder of the World, a structure built for $31.6 million. The Astrodome eliminated the raincheck and, because grass could not grow in it, introduced Astroturf, the first artificial surface. Other novelties were luxury sky boxes, a constant temperature of 72 degrees and a scoreboard that featured a message board and a television screen. Advertisement Its inspiration came to Judge Roy Hofheinz while at the Colosseum in Rome. He learned that a velarium, or awning, had been pulled over the amphitheater by slaves and machinery in bad weather. That principle seemed to be the solution for Houston's losing battle against heat, humidity and mosquitoes. He was right. In grand Texas style. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 1990, on Page 8008001 of the National edition with the headline: Astrodome Turns 25.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »