Advertisement By JACK BELLMARCH 18, 2014
 Coach Jurgen Klinsmann received a gift on Tuesday only months before the start of the World Cup in Brazil when striker Julian Green, 18, chose to represent the United States men’s national team instead of Germany. “We are absolutely thrilled that Julian has chosen to be a part of the U.S. national team programs,” Klinsmann said in a statement. “As we have said, he is a very special talent. We wanted him to feel comfortable with our program and listen to his heart when making this decision. I personally want to thank Kalle Rummenigge and everyone at Bayern Munich for their support through this process. He is an exciting player with a tremendously bright future.” Green, who was born in Tampa, Fla., to an American father and German mother, had played at the youth international level for Germany, but has petitioned FIFA for a one-time change of association, a process that is expected to be completed in a matter of weeks. Green recently moved up to the senior roster at Bayern Munich, the defending league champions in Germany. “Obviously this was a big decision, and I spent a long time discussing it with my family,” Green said in a statement. “I was born in Florida and my father still lives there, so I have deep roots in the U.S. I’m very proud to be representing the United States. Advertisement “A big part of the decision was the experience I had in Frankfurt. All the players were super nice and welcomed me from the beginning. Clint Dempsey gave me a jersey with my name on it, and the way they supported me gave me a lot of belief. The coaches have shown a lot of trust in me, and now I hope to do everything I can to earn a spot on the World Cup roster.” Advertisement Green was part of a recent American training camp in Germany before the match against Ukraine earlier this month. He will be part of the team’s training camp next month could make his debut for the American team in the coming international against Mexico in Glendale, Ariz., on April 2. Bayern Munich has agreed to release him for the game, even though he does not fall on an official FIFA match day. According to FIFA rules, once a change of association has been filed, a player cannot represent either association until the process is complete. Green is about to join a contingent of about a half-dozen German-Americans on the current roster listed at USsoccer.com. Green is likely to compete for playing time up top with Jozy Altidore and Aron Johannsson. A version of this article appears in print on March 19, 2014, on Page B18 of the New York edition with the headline: Sports Briefing | Soccer.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »