The Coyotes being run out of the playoffs Wednesday night with a 6-3 loss to the Red Wings at Jobing.com Arena in Game 4 of their playoff series may end up being a minor footnote to the day in Glendale, Ariz. The game was overshadowed by the growing possibility the Coyotes will be relocating, going back to Winnipeg. The franchise left Winnipeg for Phoenix 15 years ago, but has never made a profit in its new home, according to 2009 bankruptcy filings. In a strange twist of history, the Wings  beat the Jets in the last game in Winnipeg on April 28, 1996. The reaction to the possibility of the Coyotes leaving was wide-ranging.
Some Coyotes fans are fed up, as Dan Bickley wrote in the Arizona Republic, as somebody Wednesday wrote “Move to Winnipeg” in red marker one of the arena’s bathroom walls. But Bickley also said the team itself never fit the mold of failure, overachieving despite their dire financial straits.

The franchise went into bankruptcy two years ago, and has been since reorganizing and up for sale. There is a tentative lease agreement with prospective owner Mathew Hulsizer and the city of Glendale, but lawsuits over Glendale’s planned bond sales are stopping the sale from proceeding. That is why Winnipeg sits ready to welcome its team back, but as Cam Cole writes in the Vancouver Sun, the city would be wise to temper its anticipation until the move actually happens. N.H.L. Commissioner Gary Bettman has been steadfast in wanting the Coyotes to stay in Arizona, and pledged the league’s assistance in helping the parties work through the issues. Hulsizer was on hand for Game 4, his first appearance of the series, and restated his plans for the team. Hulsizer, showing loyalty by wearing a Coyotes jersey, has irked fans by not being present at the other playoff games. “I feel very good that there will be a future (in Arizona),” Hulsizer said. Coyotes captain Shane Doan shared his frustrations over the uncertainty. “I don’t care what anybody says, it’s a strain when you deal with your family and you deal with people outside of it,” Doan told the Winnipeg Free Press. “And if you’re going to lose a series 4-0, it’s a perfect example that we’re answering questions about what’s going to happen next.  “You don’t even get to think about the year. You have to think about what’s going on next. That’s the part that bugs you because you’ve only got so many years to play in this league and you want to enjoy them.” Slap Shot, the New York Times hockey blog, reports on the Rangers, the National Hockey League and anything that glides quickly across a frozen surface anywhere on the globe, from the snowy prairies of Saskatchewan to the frigid steppes of Russia and beyond, like, say, Phoenix.
 
			Thank you for visiting Slap Shot. This blog’s regular features, including live game analysis, reader discussion, news and notes from Jeff Z. Klein and others, can now be found on the Hockey section front.Read more… 
			With the 65th overall pick, the Rangers chose Adam Tambellini, a 6-foot-2 center whose father and brother each played for the Islanders. Read more… 
			The Devils took Anthony Brodeur, an 18-year-old goalie, with the 208th pick of the 211-pick draft, sending their seventh-round pick in 2015 to the Kings in exchange for the chance to pick Brodeur. Read more… 
			The Islanders sent Nino Niederreiter to Minnesota for Cal Clutterbuck, and took defenseman Ryan Pulock with the 15th over all pick in Sunday’s N.H.L. draft.Read more… 
			The Rangers announced Friday that they would not use their remaining compliance buyout this summer, ensuring that Brad Richards will return to the team for at least one more season.Read more… Follow Advertisement