 Maybe Jets linebacker Bart Scott should participate in the discussions between the N.F.L. and the players. He can talk with the best of them, and he can put someone in a headlock if need be.  Scott didn’t need to be at the negotiating table to make news or cause a stir last week.  He announced that he had  trademarked his catchphrase  “Can’t Wait.”

Rich Cimini, ESPN New York: “It took on a life of its own. It really took off on ESPN, it took over on YouTube. My wife said, ‘You should trademark it.’ Once I started to hear people were trying to make T-shirts, I said, ‘I tell you what, if anybody is going to benefit off ‘Can’t Wait’, it should be me.’ “ Scott, an aficionado of pro wrestling,  also appeared on TNA Wrestling’s iMPACT on Spike TV, with some actual (fake) ring work involved.   (You can skip the first 12 minutes and go straight to Scott’s part, in the clip at top. I can’t believe I watched the whole thing.)  Mike Florio of ProFootballTalk.com questioned whether Scott had violated  the standard player contract regarding  potentially hazardous activities.  Scott laughed that off. 

Also: Cimini conducted a poll of his Twitter followers on the biggest Jets draft busts. The top three were:   Vernon Gholston — 124 points
Blair Thomas — 108
Johnny Lam Jones — 56  Here’s the  full list.   Who is your biggest draft bust? The New York Times will report on the Giants and Jets throughout the season. You can also find links to coverage from around the league, tips for your fantasy football team and discussion with other football fans. 
			The content on the Fifth Down blog is moving to the pro football page on nytimes.com.Read more… 
			The Jets receiver became a critic of the game and its role in American society. But the decision to walk away was also personal.Read more… 
			John Idzik, the general manager of the Jets, will not retain Scott Cohen, the assistant general manager. Ari Nissim, another high-ranking executive, also will depart.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, answers questions from readers.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, will answer questions from readers.Read more… Follow Advertisement