Advertisement 
Sports of The Times  By                     
 JULIET MACUR
 
MARCH 21, 2014
 ORLANDO, Fla. — The Mercer Bears and their unassuming, previously unappreciated band of underdogs — admit it, most of us had no idea where Mercer was even located, much less that great basketball was played there — had the precise ingredients for an upset. When going up against big-name, big-reputation Duke on Friday, the Bears shot 82 percent from the free-throw line. In the final 36 seconds, with the nation watching, with the Hall of Fame coach Mike Krzyzewski watching, and with all of third-seeded Duke’s talented players watching, the Bears nailed seven of their last eight free throws. They showed exactly how to create magic at the N.C.A.A. tournament: by paying attention to the little things. The Bears, from Macon, Ga., featured a group of unselfish seniors, not star underclassmen with one foot already in the N.B.A. draft. Five of their players scored in double digits. Even when the pressure reached its highest at game’s end, they didn’t run around, they didn’t show their nerves. They executed their plays just as they’d practiced them. A simple pick-and-roll. A couple of free throws. A couple more after that. “You’ve got to rely on all the practice you’ve put in,” Mercer forward Jakob Gollon said, when asked about the 14th-seeded Bears’ ability to deliver when it counted most. Advertisement Of course, practice had helped. The free-throw line hasn’t moved from its spot 15 feet from the basket in more than 100 years. But if this simplest of basketball tasks is so easy, why can’t every team consistently sink these important shots? Advertisement Watching Thursday’s four games in Orlando, I found myself fidgeting in my seat and talking to myself whenever a player missed a key free throw: Ooh, you’ve got to make that shot. It wasn’t the first time anyone has said that. Players’ inability to make them in crucial moments is an enduring mystery that has annoyed fans — especially those who have had their brackets busted. Free-throw shooting failures became the most maddening for me on Thursday during the North Carolina State-St. Louis game. If N.C. State hadn’t shot only 54 percent from the line (20 of 37), maybe it wouldn’t have lost to St. Louis, 83-80, in overtime. St. Louis was even worse, at 46 percent (12 of 26). With numbers like that, one had to wonder how they got in the tournament at all. I headed in search of an answer to the eternal free-throw question, which pops up with every clang of ball on rim and after every game that ends in a nail-biter. Billy Donovan, who has won two national championships at Florida, explained that midrange shots — essentially the definition of a free throw — “are really a lost art in college basketball.” “You’re either taking a 3 or taking a layup or a post move,” Donovan said. He has tried to counter that by making his players shoot 100 free throws a day. But even that hasn’t done the trick. Florida, the No. 1 overall seed, was shooting 66 percent through Thursday, 281st in the country. Jamie Dixon, Pittsburgh’s coach, said foul shots are difficult to perfect, by nature. “It’s like you’re in combat, then suddenly you have to stop and finesse something,” he said. “Have a golfer get banged up and smacked on the floor, run up and down it, and then tell him to make a putt right after. Not easy.” St. Louis Coach Jim Crews, a Bobby Knight disciple, said it was just a mental thing. “Players are thinking about the magnitude of it and, on a national stage, that can get to you,” he said. Advertisement One of his players, Rob Loe, called it inexplicable: “I don’t really know why we can’t shoot free throws. It’s just easy to mess them up.” Louisville’s Rick Pitino, a Hall of Fame coach who led two national championship teams and who has coached two N.B.A. teams, said he had improved his players’ free-throw shooting just this season by having them practice at the line when they’re tired, in the middle of game-like situations. He’d never done that before.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “After 39 years of coaching, I just figured it out,” he said. Yet even after that long-awaited epiphany, Louisville — the defending national champion — was 282nd nationally in free-throw percentage through Thursday. That’s why it was so special to see free throws done right when Mercer beat Duke. Good foul shooting can’t guarantee a victory — Duke shot 92 percent — but it sure can come in handy. Four of Thursday’s games went into overtime. Mercer, of course, didn’t need those five extra minutes. By making its free throws, it bought itself two more days. Email: juliet@nytimes.com  A version of this article appears in print on March 22, 2014, on Page D6 of the New York edition with the headline: Mercer Sees Value in Mastering a Simple Task That Foils Many.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »