Advertisement By MALCOLM MORAN From the time the Mets made Darryl Strawberry the first draft choice in the nation a decade ago this past June, the demands for greatness have consistently attached the concept of pressure to his baseball career. But tonight, Strawberry's normally powerful swing having deteriorated to a harmless effort because of an ailing back, the pressure Strawberry must cope with is specific and frustrating. After striking out and hitting two infield groundouts in his three times at bat during the 6-0 victory over the Expos tonight, Strawberry acknowledged that the tightness and spasms in his lower back had become as bad as he has experienced. He said that his swing had become so weak that his presence in the lineup might hurt the team more than help. ''I can't get around,'' Strawberry said, his rising tone holding the helplessness in his voice. ''I can't turn my front hip. It's putting a lot of pressure on me. It's not a sharp pain. It's just something that prevents me from doing what I do best. It's making me hold when I want to let it fly. There's too much pressure on it. Advertisement ''I had pitches tonight that if I was healthy those pitches are crushed. I had fastballs. I had hanging breaking balls up in my face. Those are pitches I usually hit out of the ball park.'' Advertisement Sacrifices Power Strawberry has endured sporadic back problems this season, but the condition worsened last weekend at Chicago and was further aggravated by the hard artificial surface here at Olympic Stadium. Before this evening, he had sacrificed the power in his swing in an effort to compensate for the problem. But tonight he felt his swing had become too distorted to accomplish anything. ''I get there,'' Strawberry said, ''but I can't get there quick enough.'' Despite being rested during the game here Tuesday night - his first day off since June 17 - Strawberry has had 3 hits in his last 15 times at bat. He has struck out 3 times and hit 4 groundouts.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. His popup on Monday afternoon ended the ninth-inning rally in the loss to the Cubs that gave Pittsburgh a three-game advantage, which it still holds, in the National League East. 'Very Stubborn' The treatment of rest, whirlpool baths, heat and rubdowns has not been consistently helpful. Steve Garland, the Mets' head trainer, said Strawberry would be examined at Shea Stadium before the game against the Cubs on Friday night. ''If it is just a spasm, we'll give him medication and he'll have to go from there,'' the trainer said. Garland said he hoped the spasms were not the kind that ''can grab somebody and not let him get out of bed for a week.'' In the next six days the Mets face three games at home against Chicago and the final three of the season on the potentially aggravating artificial surface of Three Rivers Stadium in Pittsburgh. ''The key is just to be healthy going into that series,'' Strawberry said. ''That's the most important thing. It's tough on me. I'm very stubborn. We're in a tight situation, and knowing me, I'd go out there and play anyway, bad back and all.'' Strawberry feels a lack of improvement by Friday night would make it senseless for him to play, but he would not make that decision. When asked if he would tell Manager Bud Harrelson that he could not play, Strawberry said: ''I'm not going to go directly to him and tell him. That's something you don't do. That would be a decision up to the trainers.'' Why? ''Because,'' Strawberry paused and looked for an answer. ''I don't know. It's not like that. I just won't do that.'' Special to The New York Times We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 28, 1990, on Page A00020 of the National edition with the headline: Ailing Strawberry Feels the Pressure.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »