Advertisement By ZACH SCHONBRUNMARCH 17, 2014
 Before the N.C.A.A. women’s tournament bracket was revealed Monday night, Army Coach Dave Magarity could not predict the Black Knights’ seed. He did not seem to care, either. All that mattered was that they were in the tournament. As champions of the Patriot League, they set a new standard for success for the program, with 25 wins. They were also the feel-good story for the women’s portion of March Madness. Army has a daunting challenge ahead: It is a No. 13 seed and faces Maryland in the Louisville region. Down the road looms top-seeded Tennessee. And all paths seem to lead to Connecticut and Notre Dame, the former Big East rivals who both finished undefeated. As expected, Connecticut and Notre Dame were placed on opposite sides of the bracket and should have relatively straightforward paths to Nashville for the Final Four. Advertisement The Huskies (34-0) would play their regional in Lincoln, Neb.; the Fighting Irish (32-0) would host theirs. Advertisement At West Point, there was elation just to be included among the 64 best in the country. On Monday morning, Magarity received a text message from Jamie Dixon, the coach at Pittsburgh, congratulating the Black Knights for reaching the N.C.A.A. tournament for the second time. The first was in 2006, when the team was led by the vibrant oung coach Maggie Dixon, Jamie’s sister. Less than a month after losing in the first round to Tennessee, Dixon died from complications of an enlarged heart. She was 28. Magarity was the associate coach of that 2005-6 team. Dixon’s sudden loss was “absolutely devastating,” Magarity said. It made him question whether coaching was the right path. “But they approached me and said we really need you to stay,” Magarity said Monday in a telephone interview. “The girls want you to stay.” Over seven seasons, another N.C.A.A. tournament bid proved elusive. Last year, the Black Knights earned a spot in the Women’s National Invitation Tournament, and Magarity felt good about the team he had coming back. And recently he noticed an encouraging connection: Army’s Kelsey Minato, the Patriot League player of the year and the tournament most valuable player, grew up in Huntington Beach, Calif., not far from the hometown of the former Army star Cara Enright, the player of the year and tournament M.V.P. in 2006.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “That’s weird,” Magarity said. “It’s one of those things.” Magarity took comfort in that link. He also grew emotional Saturday morning, driving past the West Point cemetery where Dixon was buried. Yet he refrained from bringing up memories of the 2006 team with his current group. They are all well aware of the history. “What happened in ’06 is part of the fabric of the history of this program,” Magarity said. He had a different message to his team. “This is your time,” Magarity said he told them. “This is your moment in Army basketball history. This may be the best team in school history. I really think it is.” Advertisement Still, he added, “There are so many parallels to ’06.” Another No. 1 seed, South Carolina, would need to win on second-seeded Stanford’s home court to advance to its first Final Four since the women’s tournament became an N.C.A.A. event. The Cardinal, despite the nation’s third-best Rating Percentage Index, was dropped off the top of the bracket after a loss in the Pacific-12 tournament semifinal. Carolayne Henry, the chairwoman of the N.C.A.A. Division I women’s basketball committee, said that in deciding the four top seeds, the committee saw that South Carolina’s worst loss was to a team with an R.P.I. of 29. Stanford lost to Washington, which finished 17-13, on Feb. 9. “It was very close,” Henry said in a teleconference, adding that Stanford’s loss to the Huskies “was a distinguishing factor.” Louisville (30-4), which lost to UConn in the championship game of the American Athletic Conference tournament, dipped to a No. 3 seed. But the Cardinals, too, will host a regional, making the path difficult for Tennessee. Henry said conference affiliations did not factor into the committee’s decision-making. “We don’t judge conferences,” Henry said. “We judge the teams they play.” A version of this article appears in print on March 18, 2014, on Page B10 of the New York edition with the headline: In Army’s Second N.C.A.A. Bid, a Bittersweet Connection to the First.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »