Advertisement By JACK CURRY and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES Soon after leather made contact with Terry Dehere's fingertips in the first half tonight, the ball was dropping through the hoop for two more Seton Hall points. Lose Dehere for a second as a defender, and he will destroy teams with his shooting touch. His teammate, Anthony Avent, hurts opponents in another manner. He is a brutish center who displayed some fine power moves near the hoop in the second half. He takes few shots beyond 12 feet. Both took turns excelling at what they do best in separate halves, combining for 50 points to power Seton Hall (6-1) to a convincing 90-76 victory over Rutgers (5-2) at Byrne Meadowlands Arena. In the second game, Tony Newsom made a pivotal 3-point play with 1:14 left to help lift Niagara (3-5) to a surprising 55-50 victory over St. Peter's (5-1). Brian Clifford had 12 points and Newsom 10 for the Purple Eagles. Tony Walker scored 20 for the Peacocks. Advertisement The grudge match for New Jersey bragging rights, with all due respect to that pesky bunch in Princeton, was more of a dud match. The Pirates climbed to a 21-point lead in the first half, and Rutgers did not get closer than 11 points in the last 28 minutes of the contest. Seton Hall ran its overall winning streak to five and has also beaten Rutgers five straight times. 60 Percent From the Field Advertisement Dehere, a sinewy guard who has also been playing some small forward this season, scored 20 of his 22 points to help Seton Hall build a commanding 54-34 lead at the half. He connected on 7 of 10 field-goal attempts, including 4 of 7 from 3-point range, and made 2 free throws. The Pirates shot 60 percent from the field in the first half, while the Knights shot 31 percent. "As a shooter, you want to get in a rhythm," Dehere said. "I only take a shot if I'm wide open. The only way to stay in the rhythm is to take the open shot. If you don't, you won't stay in the rhythm."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In the second half, Dehere was content to play defense, pass the ball down low to Avent and eat time off the clock. Avent was intent on scoring. The 6-foot-10-inch senior scored a career-high 28 points and had 18 in the second half. He scored 16 of Seton Hall's first 21 points after intermission and kept the Knights from threatening. "No matter who you're playing and no matter what the score is, they can always come back," said Avent, who made 11 of 13 from the field and 6 of 8 from the line. "You never got the game in the bag." 29 Points for Hughes Playing without the injured guard Earl Duncan, who has a bruised tendon in his right ankle, and the forward Tom Savage, who quit the team for academic reasons today, the Knights were forced to rely heavily on Keith Hughes. Though he scored a game-high 29 points, Hughes was only 6 for 21 from the field. "Everything I shot seemed to go in and out," Hughes said, "like there was a hand inside the basket knocking everything out." Savage had missed two straight practices and quit the team on his own volition, according to Pete Kowalski, a school spokesman. In three seasons with Rutgers after transferring from Virginia Tech, Savage played 75 games and scored 1,164 points. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 23, 1990, on Page 8008004 of the National edition with the headline: COLLEGE BASKETBALL; Seton Hall Shooters Overpower Rutgers.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »