Advertisement By GERALD ESKENAZI A little Texas girl's drawling description of her high-bouncing Super Ball gave her daddy the inspiration back in 1967: "We'll call it the Super Bowl," said Lamar Hunt, whose Kansas City Chiefs faced the Green Bay Packers in that first game. That brings America, and a considerable portion of the rest of the world, to Super Bowl XXV today. The silver anniversary affair evokes memories of games past: of the smirking white-shoed quarterback from New York, of the outrageous pass-attempt by a kicker from Cyprus, of Hank Stram's chortling "I knew it would work!" on a touchdown against the always-bridesmaids Vikings, of the snap-brimmed fedora perched atop Tom Landry's head, never bobbing, win or lose. The little girl, Sharron Hunt, has grown up, as has the Super Bowl, but the memories remain fresh. There might even be new ones created today. Until they are, the following remembrances and records might serve. Yepremian's Blunder Worst pass: Thrown by Garo Yepremian of Miami in Super Bowl VII. With the Dolphins leading the Redskins by 14-0 late in the game, Yepremian's field-goal attempt was blocked. He picked up the bouncing ball and tried to throw it. It fluttered and dropped into the hands of Mike Bass, who ran it back 49 yards for a Washington touchdown. Still, the Dolphins won. "This is the first time the goat of the game is in the winner's locker room," said Yepremian. Advertisement The only loser to win: Chuck Howley in Super Bowl V. The Cowboy linebacker, who had two interceptions, was the only member of a losing team to be named the game's most valuable player as Dallas fell to the Baltimore Colts. Advertisement Worst excuse for getting to the Super Bowl late: Cliff Branch. The Raider wide receiver, missed the team plane headed to Super Bowl XV in New Orleans against the Eagles. "My alarm didn't go off," he said. Branch caught two touchdown passes. After the game, Al Davis was asked about Branch's tardiness. "What the heck's the difference?" said the Raiders' managing partner. Only positions never to produce an m.v.p.: offensive line, tight end, cornerback. The most prolific position has been quarterback, with 13 m.v.p.'s. The first real Super Bowl: No, it wasn't Super Bowl I in 1967, which was officially known as the A.F.L.-N.F.L. World Championship Game. Nor was it Game 2. It was the third contest, between the Colts and the Jets. And the first to be designated by a Roman numeral was V. The site was Miami. The winner was Baltimore, and numerals were grandfathered back to the first four title games. Best completion percentage by a quarterback: The Giants' Phil Simms connected on 88 percent of his passes (22 of 25) in the Super Bowl XXI victory over Denver. Most sophisticated pre-Super Bowl party outfit: The big guy wore top hat and tails to the Friday night bash thrown by the Redskins' owner, Jack Kent Cooke. When John Riggins got off the elevator, people first looked, then smiled, then applauded. Two days later, Riggins was named m.v.p. He rushed for 166 yards, then a record, on 38 carries in a Super Bowl XVII victory over Miami. Tough Decision Whom-do-I-give-this-trophy-to? award: As Super Bowl XXIII wound down with about four minutes remaining, the league passed out m.v.p. ballots in the press box. The voters rebelled and suggested waiting. The Bengals were leading the 49ers, but there was no clear-cut star. "I've got to get the trophy and I don't know who it's going to," moaned a league official as he dashed down the ramp to the locker room. By the time he reached the basement, it had been decided. Jerry Rice's 11th catch of the game helped set up the winning touchdown and earned him the award. Worst question ever asked on media day: "How long have you been a black quarterback?" was the query to the Redskins' Doug Williams. That required a two-part answer, and Williams replied: "I've been a quarterback since high school. I've always been black." He made Super Bowl XXII memorable as well as historic. As the event's first black quarterback, he threw four touchdown passes in the second quarter in a rout over the Broncos.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Most reluctant Super Bowl hero: Max McGee stayed out all night and barely made the Packers' 7:30 A.M. breakfast before Super Bowl I. And why not? A seasonlong backup, he knew that Boyd Dowler would be in on all the receiving plays. But Dowler was hurt on the second play of the game. McGee came in, snared seven passes for 138 yards and two touchdowns over the Chiefs, and is still surprised that people want to hear the story. Advertisement Only head coach to bring more than one team to the Super Bowl: Don Shula was the 39-year-old leader of the Colts when they were stunned by the Jets in the third Super Bowl. His next five appearances were with the Dolphins. His six games (he has a 2-4 mark) make him the record-holder among coaches. Nixon Gets Into the Act Only play sent in by a President of the United States (and not used): President Richard M. Nixon advised Shula before Super Bowl VI, "I think you can hit Paul Warfield in that down-and-out pattern." The Cowboys double-teamed Warfield and shut down the play. "We made sure," said Landry, "they didn't complete that pass on us." Fastest dive into obscurity by a Super Bowl star: Timmy Smith rushed for a game-record 204 yards in the Redskins' victory over Denver in XXII. The next season he was beaten out as a starter. A year after that, he was gone from Washington. The most telling one-word answer: Duane Thomas shared the podium with his mentor, Jim Brown, after the Cowboys defeated the Dolphins in Super Bowl VI. Brown whispered in Thomas's ear as questions came in for the man who had rushed for 95 yards. Then the announcer, Tom Brookshier, asked Thomas, "Are you as fast as you look?" Thomas didn't wait for Brown's help. "Evidently," Thomas replied. Most embarrassing moment (arguable): Tony Eason started for the Patriots against the Bears in Super Bowl XX. He failed to complete his first six passes. Coach Raymond Berry yanked him, and in came the old reliable, Steve Grogan. The Bears still won. Shrillest, but unheeded, cry in the night: Jimmy Orr of the Colts shouting for the ball, alone in the end zone during Super Bowl III. If Earl Morrall had seen him, the pass would have tied the score at halftime. Instead, Morrall threw to Jerry Hill, who was covered by Jim Hudson, who intercepted the pass. A Rogue Balloon Worst time for change of wind direction: At halftime of Super Bowl IV, the show featured a hot-air balloon that was supposed to rise above Tulane Stadium. Instead, it sailed into the stands. No one was hurt except, eventually, the Vikings, who bowed to the Chiefs. Closest a game came to overtime: No Super Bowl has ever been decided as time ran out. But Jim O'Brien's 32-yard field goal won Super Bowl V for Baltimore over Dallas, 16-13, with five seconds remaining. O'Brien's first kick of the game, an extra-point attempt, was blocked. Worst memory evoked by Tampa Stadium (and worst call by a coach): "I still can't get that play out of my mind," said Joe Theismann last week when he returned to the site of Super Bowl XVIII. With only 12 seconds left before halftime, the Redskins were pinned on their own 12 against the Raiders. Perhaps because everyone in America thought Theismann would simply fall on the ball and let the clock expire, Coach Joe Gibbs called for a screen pass. Jack Squirek, a Raider linebacker, was the surprised recipient of Theismann's gift on the 5-yard line and ran the interception in for a touchdown. The score propelled the Raiders to a crushing 21-3 edge. Advertisement Best reason for players to bring along a spouse to the Super Bowl: Coach Weeb Ewbank of the underdog Jets explained before facing the powerful Colts in Super Bowl III: "Wives can do a bed check a heck of a lot better than I can." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 27, 1991, on Page 8008004 of the National edition with the headline: SUPER BOWL XXV; Garo's Gaffe, McGee's Hangover And More: The First 24 Years.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »