Advertisement By RICHARD FINN and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES A triumphant week in the history of tennis in the Soviet Union ended appropriately today with the hometown favorite, Andrei Cherkasov, victorious in the final of the country's first men's professional tournament, the $330,000 Kremlin Cup. The eighth-seeded Cherkasov claimed his first career singles title by subduing Tim Mayotte, 6-2, 6-1, before a full house of 15,000 at the Olympic Indoor Stadium. "It is very good that I managed to win at home and I think my victory will attract more people to the sport," said the 20-year-old Cherkasov. "I hope that more courts will be built and more people will now have the opportunity to play." Sharing the Spoils While the introduction of world-class tennis came complete with all the trappings of courtside advertisements for some of the tournament's 30 commercial company sponsors, special lounges and officials in designer sweatsuits, one fact of Soviet business could not be changed: Mayotte could keep the entire $25,200 runner-up check while Cherkasov would hold on to only 35 percent of his $42,800 winner's check after handing over 56 percent to the State Sports Committee and the rest to his coach. Advertisement Despite the match's East versus West storyline, Mayotte received a warmer reception than the Muscovite champion at the awards ceremony. 'I Made Some Friends' Advertisement "The fans were fair and knowledgeable and it makes me feel good that I made some friends here and makes me feel good about my visit to Moscow," said Mayotte, six times a Wimbledon quarterfinalist or better. But he couldn't have been feeling too good about the tone of the match. Cherkasov thwarted Mayotte's attempt to control the match at the net with pinpoint passing shots and topspin lob winners throughout the 65-minute contest.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Andrei didn't miss a passing shot and didn't allow me to build any momentum," said the 30-year-old Mayotte, who has struggled this year and is at a six-year low of No. 41 in the world. Without a victory in two previous finals this year, Mayotte didn't help his own cause with sloppy serving. After three aces in his first service game of the match, Mayotte managed only one more the rest of the match and had his serve broken twice in each set. "When he missed some of his first serves it gave me some confidence," said Cherkasov, No.  32 in the world. "When I managed to know how to return his serve, it was really the breakthrough in the match for me." Salute for Success The tournament was saluted as a success after drawing more than 65,000 fans for its seven sessions. "It was satisfactory to the players, the spectators and the sponsors," said the tournament promoter, Sasson Kakshouri, an Iranian-born Swiss businessman. "From the players' point of view everybody was ecstatic about the event," said Mayotte, who told the crowd he would try to come back next year. "It is not a novelty act if they run it like this year and will be around for a long time. "However, the other question is can the sponsors make money off it? That's the real question." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 12, 1990, on Page C00002 of the National edition with the headline: TENNIS; Cherkasov Wins First Kremlin Cup.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »