Advertisement By CLIFTON BROWN Before a recent exhibition game, Joe Dumars and Bill Laimbeer were sitting at their lockers reading novels. Both men had more chapters to finish. Likewise, the Detroit Pistons think they have more chapters to add to their championship reign. "It's hard for people to rationally compare us to other great teams in history because we're not done yet," said Isiah Thomas, Detroit's all-star guard. "Once we're done, then maybe you can sit back and evaluate how good the Pistons were. But right now, we're still in the middle of our run." It has been an impressive run. The Pistons prepare for this season having won consecutive National Basketball Association championships, something only three other franchises have done. They can become the first team to win three consecutive titles since the Boston Celtics, who won eight in a row from 1959 to 1966.  Still 'Team to Beat' Advertisement In a season that promises an abundance of strength and parity, as many as seven or eight teams can be considered legitimate challengers to Detroit. But Larry Bird, who led Boston to three championships during the 1980's, thinks the Pistons remain a cut above the rest. Advertisement "Detroit is the team to beat," Bird said flatly. "You can talk about the other teams all you want, but Detroit has won the last two, they're still young enough, and their guys know what it takes to win. They're a good team, a great team. The rest of us have our work cut out." Not that Detroit is without problems. Vinnie Johnson, the veteran guard who hit the game-winning shot in last year's championship series, just signed a contract on Friday and may take several weeks to regain his conditioning. Dennis Rodman, voted last season's Defensive Player of the Year, is still bothered by the left ankle he sprained severely during the playoffs. Rodman was not diligent in his off-season rehabilitation, then he re-injured the ankle in a pickup game before training camp. He has missed the entire preseason and may not be ready when the regular season opens Nov. 2.  Filling the Gaps Yet the Pistons have overcome key personnel losses before. When they lost Rick Mahorn in the 1989 expansion draft, James Edwards became the starting power forward and Detroit rolled to another championship. As an insurance policy behind Johnson, the Pistons drafted Lance Blanks, a 6-foot-4-inch guard from Texas. Though he does not possess Johnson's offensive explosiveness, the Pistons like Blanks's quickness, his shooting range and his toughness. Detroit may also add a veteran guard. The Pistons have already expressed interest in Dennis Johnson, the longtime Celtic who was not re-signed by Boston. The nucleus of the team remains intact. Thomas, Dumars, Laimbeer, Rodman and Mark Aguirre have all been all-stars. Edwards is the team's top low-post threat while John Salley is one of the league's most mobile small forwards. Detroit also signed Tree Rollins, a veteran backup center, for added depth. And William Bedford, a 7-foot-1-inch center whose career has been plagued by drug and personal problems, is in the best condition of his career. He may be able to contribute 10 to 15 minutes a game, which would ease some of the fatigue on Laimbeer and Edwards.  Still Seem Hungry Advertisement Perhaps more importantly, the Pistons still act and talk as if they are highly motivated. Thomas and Dumars are in midseason shape. Chuck Daly, Detroit's coach, described Laimbeer as being "as nasty and ornery as ever." Thomas and Laimbeer underwent minor surgery over the weekend, Thomas for a ruptured tear duct and Laimbeer for a broken left cheekbone. Thomas is expected to play against the Knicks tonight and both are expected to be fully recovered by the time the season opens.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. And Daly, who almost retired from coaching in July to become a basketball analyst for NBC, admitted that the chance to win three consecutive championships helped keep him on the bench. He is beginning his eighth season with the Pistons, the longest tenure of any active N.B.A. coach. "I wasn't ready to give up coaching, although I came very close," Daly said. "But it wasn't time. I've spent too much time helping build this team to just walk away now. I felt we could hang in there and maybe win it another year. Plus, the price was right."  Looking for Full Recognition While they do not often speak about it, the Pistons want to leave a legacy of greatness they feel they deserve. The Los Angeles Lakers of the 1980's and the Celtics of the 1960's and 80's seemed to be accepted as great teams by the public much more readily than the Pistons have been. There are several theories as to why. For one, the Pistons do not have a single personality as popular or as dominant as Magic Johnson with the Lakers or as Bird was with the Celtics. Thomas comes the closest, but many people think that Dumars, not Thomas, is the best player on the team. Detroit's Bad Boys reputation as the league's most physical team may be loved in Detroit, but it is loathed among people in some other cities. But the Pistons are not concerned with glamour. They are concerned with success. There are a host of statistics from last season that show how much they emphasize defense, teamwork and winning over individual honors. *No Piston averaged more than 18.4 points per game. *No Piston was named first-team or second-team all-league. *No Piston finished among the top 10 in scoring, rebounding, field-goal percentage, blocked shots or steals. Advertisement Yet they repeated as champions because they were the best defensive team in the league and they had the mental toughness to succeed in pressure games. Detroit's ability to thrive in clutch situations has become a trademark. The Pistons have not lost a playoff series in which they had the home-court advantage since 1984. "You hear about the character of the Pistons, but you don't realize how strong it is until you're around them," said Brendan Suhr, an assistant coach who came to the Pistons two seasons ago from the Atlanta Hawks. "On some teams, the coach's will to win is stronger than his players' will to win. Not on this team. Everyone in this organization from top to bottom wants to win, badly. And they're willing to make the necessary sacrifices."  Avoiding 'Self-Destruction' So if the Pistons do not add a third championship ring to their jewelry collection, they insist it will not be because they were complacent. During the off season, Thomas spoke to Pat Riley, the Lakers' former coach, and to Chuck Noll, coach of the Pittsburgh Steelers, about what they experienced when trying to win a third consecutive championship. "The main thing I found out from everyone is that you have to guard against self-destruction," Thomas said. "Most great teams reach a certain level and become satisfied. So we've instituted some private things, whether you'd call them team rules or just mental attitudes, that will help prevent us from self-destructing. "You can't really enjoy being on top until it's over. I think once you start to enjoy it, that's when you lose it. This will probably be the most challenging phase of our careers, even more challenging than winning the first championship. But I'm definitely looking forward to that challenge. At this point, winning championships is the only thing that keeps it interesting for us." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 24, 1990, on Page B00009 of the National edition with the headline: Motivation Matches Piston Talent.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »