Is Tom Coughlin a better coach than Rex Ryan? A lot of Giants fans might say: Hey, let’s back up a step; should Coughlin be coaching the Giants at all? A panel of eight ESPN writers created an instant bar-room debate by ranking N.F.L. coaches on Tuesday. One part that jumps out is the perception of fans versus those of ESPN’s experts.  Andy Reid, a punching bag for many Eagles fans,  is ranked third.  The oft-criticized Coughlin is ranked sixth, just ahead of the Jets’ Ryan.  Lovie Smith, who might have  been out of a job if the Bears had missed the playoffs this season, comes in  eighth. Here’s the list: 1. Bill Belichick, New England Patriots
2. Mike Tomlin, Pittsburgh Steelers
3. Andy Reid, Philadelphia Eagles
4. Mike McCarthy, Green Bay Packers
5. Sean Payton, New Orleans Saints
6. Tom Coughlin,  Giants
7. Rex Ryan,  Jets
8. Lovie Smith, Chicago Bears
9. Mike Smith, Atlanta Falcons
10. Mike Shanahan, Washington Redskins
10. John Harbaugh, Baltimore Ravens  If the results look odd, Tim Graham of ESPN.com explains that job turnover played a big role: Eight teams have new coaches for 2011, ostensibly reducing the number of Power Rankings candidates to 24 from the jump. Nine more coaches have been with their current teams for two seasons or shorter.  Graham said he voted Ryan fourth:  
My reasoning is that Ryan, despite not winning the Super Bowl, has a tractor-beam pull on his players — and even other teams’ players — unlike any other coach in the league. Ryan carries serious clout with the people who matter most of all, the ones on his roster.  Extra point: Would you slide Ryan a little higher than Coughlin? He has been to back-to-back A.F.C. title games, and the Giants have missed the playoffs the last two seasons.  The New York Times will report on the Giants and Jets throughout the season. You can also find links to coverage from around the league, tips for your fantasy football team and discussion with other football fans. 
			The content on the Fifth Down blog is moving to the pro football page on nytimes.com.Read more… 
			The Jets receiver became a critic of the game and its role in American society. But the decision to walk away was also personal.Read more… 
			John Idzik, the general manager of the Jets, will not retain Scott Cohen, the assistant general manager. Ari Nissim, another high-ranking executive, also will depart.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, answers questions from readers.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, will answer questions from readers.Read more… Follow Advertisement