Brandon Prust’s name is not on the Rangers’ injured list. The N.H.L. is not like the N.F.L., which documents every bruise and strain in daily reports. If Prust were a member of the New York Giants, he would probably be listed as questionable with an assortment of injuries. But Prust,Â a 6-foot-2 left wing that Marc Staal calls “one of the toughest teammates I’ve ever had,” played his 72nd consecutive game of the season Friday night when the Rangers defeated the Montreal Canadiens, 6-3, at Madison Square Garden. Among his ailments, Prust is believed to have a weakened shoulder. Yet there he was last Saturday in San Jose, throwing punches with the Sharks enforcer Ben Eager. Prust was held out of practice Monday — Coach John Tortorella, as most of his colleagues do to protect their players, called it a “maintenance day” — then scored his fifth shorthanded goal of the season early in the first period as the Rangers beat the Islanders, 6-3, on Tuesday. He is tied with Islanders center Frans Nielsen for the league lead in shorthanded goals. In the opening faceoff against the Canadiens, Prust was invited to fight by Travis Moen,Â Montreal’s burly left wing. The two engaged in a long and spirited battle and were each penalized five minutes, officially, at :01 of the first period. Asked after the gameÂ if he wanted to provide a spark for his team, Prust said, “We both wanted to. There was a lot of energy out there. Even during the national anthems, the building was alive. We wanted to get the blood pumping and get everyone going.” The home crowd,Â energized by Prust’s fight and the noisy presence of approximately 1,500 fans wearing Canadiens colors, roared. At the end of the first period, the Rangers led, 5-1. All five goals, one assisted by Prust, were of the hard-hat variety. Prust’s stat line for the period: major penalty for fighting, a minor penalty for interference (offset by a roughing penalty by Montreal’s P.K. Subban for jousting with Prust), a +1 plus/minus rating and one assist — all in just 3:50 of ice time. This is why, when asked about Prust before the game, Tortorella gathered his thoughts for a few seconds and paid the third-liner the ultimate compliment: “He’s a big part of the way we play.” No one with the Rangers, not Tortorella, General Manager Glen Sather or the biggest advocate on the scouting staff expected Prust to have such a major impact. He was considered a “throw-in” — or what scouts call a “try” — in a Feb. 2, 2010,Â trade withÂ Calgary with Olii Jokinen for Ales Kotalik and Chris Higgins. Now when he is asked if there is any chance Prust might miss a game with his injuries, Tortorella looks like he doesn’t even want to think about the notion. The veteran Rangers center Vinny Prospal said he “had no idea” what the Rangers were getting when Prust arrived from Calgary. “Prusty surprises me every game,” said Prospal, who had a goal and an assist against Montreal. “And I think I speak for the whole team.” Almost. One member of the Rangers is not surprised by Prust’s consistently physical and effective shifts. Asked Friday for a scouting report on Prust when he played for the London Knights of the Ontario Hockey League, Rangers right wing Ryan Callahan — who played for Guelph — said,Â “What I remember most about Prust was staying away from him whenever possible.”  Blue Notes: With the win, the Rangers improved their home record to 17-16-3. The Canadiens are without nine regulars from their lineup, most with long-term injuries. For Friday’s game, Montreal was without the leading scorer Tomas Plekanec (lower-body injury) and the 6-foot-7, 241-pound defenseman Hal Gill. The Rangers last scored at least five goals in a period on March 17, 2007, when they scored six in a win over Boston. The last time they scored five in a period against the Canadiens was Jan. 10, 1986. Since returning from injury on Feb. 1 vs. Pittsburgh, CallahanÂ has 11 goals and 18 points in 19 games — including a goal in the first period Friday. The right wing, who was sidelined for 19 games with a broken hand suffered on Dec. 15 at Pittsburgh, leads the Rangers in scoring in that time frame. Prospal has 5 goals andÂ 11 assists for 16 points in 18 games since he made his season debut on Feb. 3. Prospal missed the first 53 games of the season with a knee injury. Slap Shot, the New York Times hockey blog, reports on the Rangers, the National Hockey League and anything that glides quickly across a frozen surface anywhere on the globe, from the snowy prairies of Saskatchewan to the frigid steppes of Russia and beyond, like, say, Phoenix.
 
			Thank you for visiting Slap Shot. This blog’s regular features, including live game analysis, reader discussion, news and notes from Jeff Z. Klein and others, can now be found on the Hockey section front.Read more… 
			With the 65th overall pick, the Rangers chose Adam Tambellini, a 6-foot-2 center whose father and brother each played for the Islanders. Read more… 
			The Devils took Anthony Brodeur, an 18-year-old goalie, with the 208th pick of the 211-pick draft, sending their seventh-round pick in 2015 to the Kings in exchange for the chance to pick Brodeur. Read more… 
			The Islanders sent Nino Niederreiter to Minnesota for Cal Clutterbuck, and took defenseman Ryan Pulock with the 15th over all pick in Sunday’s N.H.L. draft.Read more… 
			The Rangers announced Friday that they would not use their remaining compliance buyout this summer, ensuring that Brad Richards will return to the team for at least one more season.Read more… Follow Advertisement