Advertisement By JOE SEXTON His number retired, Tom Seaver climbed into a black convertible near home plate yesterday to finish his ceremonial lap of Shea Stadium. The car, with Seaver perched on top of the back seat, slowly circled the stands as the crowd mustered one last ovation. Finally, the outfield wall opened and the car disappeared through it. With it went almost all further cause for applause. After nearly an hour of standing tributes for a member of a magical past, the crowd of 46,057 was forced to sit through yet another doleful performance by the current collection of Mets, who lost 4-2 to the Braves. Unsightly Slide It was the Mets' second straight loss to the worst team in the National League and the fourth in their last six games. Advertisement Afterward, Dave Johnson, the manager of the Mets, who has been exceedingly patient all season, broached the possibility that management may have to do something to reverse what has become and unsightly slide. Advertisement ''Maybe we have to make a move one way or another,'' said Johnson, whose team managed just seven hits and one run before Darryl Strawberry's impressive but insignificant home run in the ninth. ''This has just gone on too long. We're just stagnant.'' One day after being baffled by John Smoltz, a 21-year-old making his major league debut, the Mets were handcuffed by an undistinguished product of the Class AAA Mexican League. A Stiff Shoulder German Jimenez, who entered the game with an 0-3 record and an earned run average of 7.27, allowed just four hits and one run in five innings for his first major league victory. The 26-year-old left-hander, who was taken out after his shoulder stiffened, was making his last start in a 30-day trial period since he was bought from the Jalisco Charros. Based on his performance yesterday, the Braves decided to keep him. ''It's kind of getting boring talking about it,'' Johnson said of his team's incompetence at the plate. ''We have no offense. Their guy looked like Sandy Koufax.'' ''You could say we are terrible, although I don't find a value in saying negative things,'' he said. ''But for us to struggle offensively with the talent we have boggles the mind. We certainly have an affliction.'' No Grandiose Ideas  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Frank Cashen, the team's general manager, who walked through an otherwise deserted clubhouse after the game, had no comment on Johnson's talk of a shake-up. ''I don't have any grandiose ideas,'' Cashen said. Neither did Johnson have any specific suggestions for how to energize a leaden team all but incapable of generating clutch hits or explosive innings. Advertisement ''You can understand it if it goes on for a month,'' said Johnson, whose team is 28-28 over the last two months, 6-10 over the last three weeks. ''But maybe we need to shake things up. I don't have anything in mind, but sometimes you have to bring in somebody who can give the team a charge.'' The Pirates gave them a break by losing their third game in a row to the Dodgers, and thus the Mets clung to their lead of two games in the National League East. ''This is completely different from what happened last year,'' said Wally Backman, referring to the failure to retake the division after winning the World Series in 1986. ''We had injuries then. It's nobody's fault but the fault of the guys in this clubhouse.'' The Mets, who have just one home run in their last six games, had no real response to the two runs the Braves scored off Sid Fernandez in the first when Jim Morrison doubled home Andres Thomas and Dale Murphy, who both singled. Murphy Hits Homer Indeed, the Mets left it to Fernandez, who pitched well enough to win while striking out 10 in eight innings, to produce his own run with a sacrifice fly in the fifth. But Murphy hit his fourth home run of the season off the Mets in the sixth to make it 3-1. The Braves added an unearned run in the ninth off Roger McDowell. ''The Mets are a team based on a lot of power,'' Murphy said. ''They have to get the long ball. They are lucky their pitching has been as good as it's been. But that pitching was so good, you knew it wasn't going to last.'' Now, after Johnson's comments, one wonders what is to come. ''I'm sure they've been thinking about it for some time,'' Gary Carter, who has been thinking about his 300th home run for two months now, said of management's plan of attack. ''I don't know what they have in store, though.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 25, 1988, on Page C00003 of the National edition with the headline: Mets Are Baffled By Braves Again.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »