Advertisement By JACK BELLMARCH 18, 2014
 The notion of a world class striker using a move to Major League Soccer as a path to the World Cup might seem far-fetched to some, but it made perfect sense to Jermain Defoe. Especially after Defoe, a 31-year-old striker from England, scored two goals, or “opened his account,” as the saying goes, leading Toronto to a victory last weekend at Seattle in his M.L.S. debut. His performance did not go unnoticed in England. “On a personal level, I’d like to score as many goals as possible for the club and go to the World Cup,” Defoe told FIFA.com. “If I can get that experience of playing in a second World Cup, I can come back here on a high and help the team again. That’s all I want to do.” Along with the American international Michael Bradley, who joined Toronto from Roma of Italy’s Serie A, and the Brazilian goalkeeper Júlio César, Defoe is expected to lift the club from years of failure. Toronto has never qualified for the postseason since it joined the league in 2007. Defoe left Tottenham at the end of February to become one of the highest paid players in M.L.S. Advertisement Yet Defoe’s intention is to show England Coach Roy Hodgson that he still has goal-scoring chops and should be part of the 23-man roster that goes to Brazil. He has played 55 times for England, scoring 19 goals, including one against Slovenia at the 2010 World Cup in South Africa that sent England to the second round from a first-round group that was won by the United States. “I just need to play and score goals,” he said. “To get on a World Cup squad you have to be playing. Throughout my career, people know I’ve scored a lot of goals. I think the most important thing for me is to play and score goals. I think that’s all I can do.” Advertisement The roster announcement is still some time away, but for his performance against Clint Dempsey and the Seattle Sounders, Defoe was named the M.L.S. player of the week. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »