HARRISON, N.J. — If there was ever any doubt that the Red Bulls are a now team, that notion was dispelled Friday afternoon when the club announced the acquisition of the veteran midfielder Dwayne De Rosario from Toronto. “Whenever I’m here, yes, I want to win,” Erik Soler, the Red Bulls’ sporting director and general manager, said during a news conference before Saturday’s match against Houston. “We want to win tonight, next week, every week and the title. That’s why we’re here. We don’t have time to wait for a guy like Tony Tchani to develop in three years.” Asked if the Red Bulls were now the favorite to win the championship, Soler said: “I’ll be disappointed if we don’t. I was very disappointed when we didn’t win last year, very disappointed. I’m confident, but we have to do better in the playoffs.” After an impressive turnaround under the first-year coach Hans Backe that saw the Red Bulls win the Eastern Conference title one year after finishing in last place, the club was ousted in the first round of the playoffs by San Jose.  De Rosario was not in the starting lineup, but he was on the substitutes’ bench Saturday at Red Bull Arena when his new club faced one of his former clubs, the Houston Dynamo. To get De Rosario, who has played on four teams that have won the M.L.S. championship, the Red Bulls sent two young players to Canada — midfielder Tony Tchani and defender Danleigh Borman. Soler confirmed a report in Saturday’s editions of the New York Post that said Toronto would pick up a large part of De Rosario’s salary, which is in excess of $400,000 a year. The Red Bulls recently cleared some space in their salary budget by cutting Salou Ibrahim. De Rosario is in the final year of his contract, something that factored into Toronto’s willingness to trade him, but the Red Bulls hold two one-year options. “Yes, they are keeping some of his salary,” Soler said. “We’re happy with that. And we still have our third designated player slot. He has a guaranteed contract this year, then the options. We will discuss things with the player over the coming weeks and will be happy if it all works out. We hope he will be ready to continue to play for us. We really want him.” De Rosario, who will turn 33 in May, won two league titles with San Jose and two more in Houston after the club moved to Texas. He has been named to the M.L.S. Best XI five times and is a veteran of Canada’s national team, but he will not count as an international player on the Red Bulls’ roster because he holds a green card. An expert taker of free kicks, De Rosario has been characterized as a classic No. 10 (who coincidentally, will be wearing jersey No. 11!), soccer shorthand for an offensive midfielder who plays right behind a team’s strikers. “We’ve been on the lookout for a true No. 10 for some period of time,” Soler said. “He has a creative foot that can win games. He can score and prepare goals for others. When people score from the midfield it takes the pressure off the attackers and make us harder to play against. He is a game-changing player.” Goal, The New York Times soccer blog, will report on news and features from the world of soccer and around the Web.  Times editors and reporters will follow international tournaments and provide analysis of games. There will be interviews with players, coaches and notable soccer fans, as well as a weekly blog column by Red Bulls forward Jozy Altidore.  Readers can discuss Major League Soccer, foreign leagues and other issues with fellow soccer fans.
	 
			The Goal blog’s regular features, including live match analysis, player ratings from key matches, reader discussion, news and notes and more, can now be found on the soccer section front.Read more… 
			Crystal Palace won promotion to England’s Premier League on Monday. Now the club must retool under Manager Ian Holloway if it is to avoid relegation next season.Read more… 
			When congress opens, FIFA will be dealing with issues from President Sepp Blatter’s possible run for another term to accusations of vote-rigging among executive committee members.Read more… 
			Sacha Kljestan, who just won his second straight Belgian title with Anderlecht, could have a role to play for the United States in its exhibition against Belgium on Wednesday.Read more… 
			Alonso Hernandez, who plays in Mexico for Monterrey but has never represented the United States at any level, will get a chance to earn a place on the Under-20 World Cup team.Read more… Follow Advertisement