Advertisement By JOE LAPOINTE and  Of the six players who arrived on the Islanders' roster in the Day of Trades (Oct. 25), the best of the bunch has been Uwe Krupp, a big defenseman who is beginning to show a streak of pride to go with his balanced talents. Despite the Islanders' 5-3 loss to the Pittsburgh Penguins on Saturday at Nassau Coliseum, Krupp was eager afterward to stress the positive about a team that lacks a positive self-image in its own building and almost any image at all in the greater metropolitan area. "I don't think anybody should let their head drop," Krupp, a former Sabre, said of the Islanders. "I think it's a real good team. We are really battling with our injuries. All the media attention is on the New York Rangers, but we're steadily trying to stay with the program. "We have a good, decent record. We are head to head with teams like Edmonton and Buffalo and we are playing with guys from the minor leagues and coming up large. Sometimes I think we don't get enough credit from the media for plugging away." Friendly and Blunt Advertisement Krupp spoke, in a friendly manner, with the usual, small group of reporters who cover the team on a regular basis. Although English is his second language, Krupp's German-accented words flow in whole thoughts and complete sentences. His bluntness underscored the peculiar niche held by the Islanders among the nine major professional sports teams in the area. Advertisement Most of these teams are over-hyped by fans and news media when they win and over-criticized when they lose. The Islanders are mostly ignored. That lessens the pressure, which can be both good and bad. But how do Krupp's words translate to numbers? The Islanders' record of 17-24-6 for 40 points is good for fifth place in the Patrick Division, 13 points behind the Devils, who hold the fourth and final playoff berth. The Sabres have 44 points, the Oilers 43. Over all, in the well-balanced 22-team league, the Islanders' point total ranks 17th. Even if they would choose their division, they would rank as a playoff qualifier only in the Adams, although they would be closer in the Norris and Smythe than they are in the Patrick. Reasons for the Fuss  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. So what does Krupp have to be optimistic about? Perhaps it is the last two months of the season, when the Islanders will have reinforcements during the stretch run to the playoffs. Gary Nylund, out all season with a heal injury, should be back on defense by early February. Patrick Flatley, the captain who has been out since Dec. 19 with a broken bone in his right thumb, should be back in early March. Joe Reekie, a defenseman out with a fractured knuckle since Jan. 3, should be back by mid-March. When the Winter Olympics are over in late February, Bill Torrey, the general manager, hopes to bring two defenseman direct from Albertville, France. They are Scott Lachance, a first-round draft choice who is playing for the United States, and Vladimir Malakhov, a defenseman from Russia chosen in the 1989 draft. Another positive sign is the return of goalie Mark Fitzpatrick, who is making a comeback from a blood disorder. He has played in the last six games and has started the last four, with a 2-2 record. Breakaway Victims On Saturday, both Fitzpatrick and Krupp were the victims of a two-man breakaway by Mario Lemieux and Jaromir Jagr that clinched the 5-3 victory for Pittsburgh. With the score tied, 3-3, in the final minute, Kevin Stevens got an outlet pass behind Rich Pilon and, suddenly, two of hockey's best offensive talents roared in, passing the puck back and forth and pulling their foes out of position before Lemieux put it in the net. Just before the rush, Krupp's shot at the other end was stopped by goalie Wendell Young and Bill Berg missed knocking in the rebound. The Islanders are off until Thursday, when they will play the Penguins at Pittsburgh. It will be the beginning of a stretch that includes six games in nine days following a span of only two games in 13 days. Against Pittsburgh, the Islanders are 0-4-1. The Penguins are the only Patrick Division team they haven't defeated. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 27, 1992, on Page C00008 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; Krupp's Proud to Wear Islander Label.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »