Bills receiver Steve Johnson may be taking more criticism for how he’s handling his  dropped pass against the Steelers than for  the drop itself. Jerry Sullivan of The Buffalo News:  Johnson couldn’t let it go. He told the Bills’ PR staff that he wanted to go to the interview room. It was a good thing that he wanted to face the music in public. He said he was mainly devastated for his teammates. But he also wallowed in self-pity. It got more pathetic later, when Johnson felt it necessary to oblige the people who follow him on his personal Twitter account: “I praise you 24/7!!!! And this how you do me!!! You expect me to learn from this??? How??? I’ll never forget this!!! Ever!!! Thx tho … ” Wow. I suspect the Creator has bigger concerns than a rising NFL star dropping a pass that costs his team a game. Johnson, a seventh-round draft pick out of Kentucky in 2008,  has been widely praised for his surprising play this season, and for a cheeky stunt last week in which he revealed a message underneath his jersey that said: “Why So Serious?” One week later, he was dealing with a headline on Yahoo Sports that said:  “Steve Johnson Blames God for His Overtime Drop” Extra point: As for the video, the offensive lineman is always the last to know (at the 35-second mark).  The New York Times will report on the Giants and Jets throughout the season. You can also find links to coverage from around the league, tips for your fantasy football team and discussion with other football fans. 
			The content on the Fifth Down blog is moving to the pro football page on nytimes.com.Read more… 
			The Jets receiver became a critic of the game and its role in American society. But the decision to walk away was also personal.Read more… 
			John Idzik, the general manager of the Jets, will not retain Scott Cohen, the assistant general manager. Ari Nissim, another high-ranking executive, also will depart.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, answers questions from readers.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, will answer questions from readers.Read more… Follow Advertisement