Which nation will be selected on Thursday by FIFA to host the 2022 World Cup? You have read all the oh-so-serious analyses, so here is a different take.

Australia … Great place, very lovely kangaroos, nice people with weird accents, sports enthusiasts, socceroos and the oh-so-lovely Matilda calendar girls, but it’s Down Under and halfway around the world. That makes for a difficult TV viewing schedule for those in Europe and elsewhere, and FIFA wants the big-time TV revenues. If they should get selected, don’t schlep there just to see some soccer games, you can buy their steaks at Outback, Uggs at Zappos and save on the air fare. Japan … Soccer is up and coming and the Japanese teams (men and women) keep getting better, but it already hosted the World Cup several years ago with South Korea, and if it  gets the 2022 tournament that could end the chance of China hosting in 2026 because FIFA likes the World Cup to move around from confederation to confederation, and wants to go to China in 2026. Besides, you can get good sushi in New York, and just about everywhere in the U.S. South Korea … Ditto above. Two intriguing ideas are actually the same and are both a plus and minus for South Korea: Holding the 2026 World Cup could perhaps bring peace and unify the South and the North. But North Korea is too wacky and unpredictable and it will already have “nuclear” (per former President George W. Bush) weapons and it may try to annihilate someone … anyone … probably South Korea … if that doesn’t work, they might try Flushing! Qatar … Do you see Disneyland rushing to open a theme park in Qatar where it’s a broiling sun and 120+ degrees in the summer shade? I don’t. O.K., they have great hotels … wonderful, but so do other countries and the idea is to go to the stadiums,  walk around town, get the lay of the land, and meet and greet soccer fans from other places. With their summer heat, you want to walk and schvitz in Qatar … be my guest! Plus, it’s too small … only one major city, a nation of only 1.7 million people, and everyone watching the games will be shuttling in and out of hotels in one city and they won’t be able to get through the revolving doors quickly enough. All the cold air will be wasted. Don’t stand by the doorways unless you enjoy hot furnace-like blasts of air. You want Serbians and Italian fans running into each other in the streets there, or worse, in the same hotels? And, what happens if there’s a power blackout? And, don’t forget, Iran isn’t too far away and they’ll have their “nuclear” missiles, too. U.S.A. … Sunil Gulati’s biggest advantage is that John McCain lost the election. Can you imagine Sarah Palin parachuting  into Zurich for a chat with Sepp Blatter? They don’t play soccer in Alaska, do they?  I also think she also says “nuclear.” We have everything here already set up and ready to go … stadiums, airports, roads, rails, great cities, nice people, an emerging soccer-supporting population and the ace-in-the-hole: Bigelow’s Clam Bar in Rockville Centre. The winner will be … the U.S.A., all the way. Watch the event live on TV, Thursday at Bigelows! Larry Miller is the editor and Webmaster of the eclectic youth-based soccer Web site backofthenet.com, which has focused on the game on Long Island since 1991. Goal, The New York Times soccer blog, will report on news and features from the world of soccer and around the Web.  Times editors and reporters will follow international tournaments and provide analysis of games. There will be interviews with players, coaches and notable soccer fans, as well as a weekly blog column by Red Bulls forward Jozy Altidore.  Readers can discuss Major League Soccer, foreign leagues and other issues with fellow soccer fans.
	 
			The Goal blog’s regular features, including live match analysis, player ratings from key matches, reader discussion, news and notes and more, can now be found on the soccer section front.Read more… 
			Crystal Palace won promotion to England’s Premier League on Monday. Now the club must retool under Manager Ian Holloway if it is to avoid relegation next season.Read more… 
			When congress opens, FIFA will be dealing with issues from President Sepp Blatter’s possible run for another term to accusations of vote-rigging among executive committee members.Read more… 
			Sacha Kljestan, who just won his second straight Belgian title with Anderlecht, could have a role to play for the United States in its exhibition against Belgium on Wednesday.Read more… 
			Alonso Hernandez, who plays in Mexico for Monterrey but has never represented the United States at any level, will get a chance to earn a place on the Under-20 World Cup team.Read more… Follow Advertisement