Advertisement By DAVE ANDERSON Lou Holtz likes to joke, "I didn't realize how fast Rocket was until I saw him playing tennis by himself." But for all the speed and success of Raghib Ismail as Notre Dame's tailback, slotback, wide receiver, kickoff returner and punt returner, his coach is surprised not so much by what Rocket does in a game as by what he does in practice. "He's done a standing flip with full equipment," Holtz said. "And there's hardly a practice when I don't say to one of the other coaches, 'Did you see the cut he just made?' " But earlier this season the 5-foot-10-inch, 175-pound all-American and likely Heisman Trophy winner didn't appear at practice. Holtz kept looking around for him, asking, "Where is he?" Rocket had never missed practice before. "Rocket later told me," Holtz said, "that one of his classmate's parents had died so he sat with him and consoled him, then drove him to the airport. That's why he missed practice. That's the kind of caring person he is." Advertisement Rocket understood his classmate's sorrow. When he was 10 years old, his father, Ibrahim, died. But in his blue-and-gold football uniform, Rocket Ismail cares only for the goal line. Over three seasons, he has scored 15 touchdowns: five on kickoff returns, five as a running back, four as a pass receiver, one on a punt return. Even more remarkable is their average yardage. Advertisement Are you ready for this? His 15 scoring plays have averaged 63.5 yards! Kickoff returns of 94, 92, 89, 87 and 83 yards have boosted that average. But his shortest touchdown has been a 24-yard rush. And when Notre Dame plays Navy on Saturday at Giants Stadium one of the most compelling players in the history of college football will be on display not far from the south Newark neighborhood where he learned to run away from people. "We lived at 145 Georgia King Village in the developments," he was saying now from South Bend, Ind. "We played a game called Chase with sometimes 50 kids. The last to yell 'I'm not it!' had to give the others 25 seconds to disperse into the maze of the developments. The last kid to get caught was the winner. I only won once or twice. You got cornered too easily." Nobody corners him easily now. Notre Dame thought Tim Brown, its 1987 Heisman Trophy winner now with the Los Angeles Raiders, was fast when he was timed in 4.38 seconds for 40 yards. Rocket has been timed in 4.28. "He's a football player with track speed," Holtz said. "But he's not just fast. He's got unbelievable body control and a linebacker mentality. He doesn't seem to understand that he's only 5-10 and 175; he plays like he's 6-2 and 210. He's like the Pekingnese that's barking at the German shepherd."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Raghib Ismail has always played bigger than his size. After his mother, Fatma, sent him and his brothers, Qadry (now at Syracuse), and Sulaiman to live with their grandmother in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., before she rejoined them, he quickly developed into a schoolboy all-American at Meyers High School. "That's where I got my nickname," he recalled. "My track coach, Jim Cross, thought I exploded out of the blocks like a rocket." But when asked to explain his success, Rocket retreated into his shy shell as if he were a turtle. He talked about how "we," meaning the entire offensive unit, "work hard" in practice, how "you play like you practice." Yes, he was reminded, but other players work hard. "That's where coaching comes in," he said. "Coaches who know how to call certain plays at certain times." Advertisement Yes, he was reminded, but other coaches know how to call certain plays at certain times but none of those coaches' players has averaged 63.5 yards on 15 touchdowns. "It's a team sport," he said. He intends to remain at Notre Dame for his senior season rather than enter next year's National Football League draft because he's "not ready to be surrounded by agents and lawyers." But in 1992 he's projected by pro scouts as a possible No. 1 choice, probably as a wide receiver. And when asked about his chances of outpolling two quarterbacks, Ty Detmer of Brigham Young and Shawn Moore of Virginia, in the Heisman election, he resisted. "I'm uncomfortable trying to boost myself," he said. Even so, he has emerged as a tourist attraction on campus. But in his shyness, he prefers his privacy. In a Notre Dame football questionnaire, he listed his favorite place on campus as "my room," his worst fear as "answering the phone," his ideal vacation as "a faraway exotic island with no one around," and his comic-book fantasy as "the Invisible Man, because I could get in and out of places without any problems." But on the football field, that's what Rocket does now. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 1, 1990, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: SPORTS OF THE TIMES; The Rocket: Caring, Shy, Compelling.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »