Advertisement By MALCOLM MORAN At the point of the year that too often defines the success or failure of a basketball season, the Redmen of St. John's face two questions as they approach the school's 21st appearance in the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament. The first is the mental state of a team that has lost 6 of its last 11 games, including the 8-point defeat by Providence in a Big East quarterfinal game last Friday. But as the Redmen prepared for their first-round meeting with Northern Illinois this afternoon at Dayton, Ohio, the second and more pressing issue has been the strained right calf muscle of Robert Werdann. Debut of St. Peter's In the other Midwest Regional games at the University of Dayton Arena, the 12th-seeded Peacocks of St. Peter's will make their first N.C.A.A. appearance, facing fifth-seeded Texas. Ohio State, the top-seeded team in the region, will meet No. 16 Towson State before what is expected to be a partisan crowd within easy driving distance of the Buckeyes' Columbus campus. Advertisement And DePaul, 10 years after a No. 1-ranked Blue Demon team was upset by St. Joseph's in the same building, will meet Georgia Tech in what could be Kenny Anderson's final game with the Yellow Jackets. Advertisement Werdann, a 6-foot-11-inch junior center, has been unable to take part in contact drills since he was injured in the Providence loss. "I'm very optimistic," Dr. Irving Glick, the team's consulting orthopedist, said yesterday after watching Werdann shoot during a practice in Dayton. "He has dramatically improved. He had some good moves to the basket. I'm looking for him to play some. I think he won't be completely normal, but I don't expect him to do any damage."  Playing, No Matter What  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Werdann, who has started 89 of the 91 games he has played in during his three college seasons, attempted to shoot on Wednesday with little success. He stayed on the sideline, or had his injury treated, as his teammates practiced earlier this week. Still, though he was walking with a limp, Werdann remained optimistic. "I'm the type of player that wants to play no matter what," he said. "I'd have to have a broken leg to not want to play." Werdann's 11.1-point scoring average is third among the Redmen, and his 7.3 rebound average is second to Malik Sealy's. His size would give St. John's an edge against the 13th-ranked Huskies (25-5) whose tallest starters, Andrew Wells, center, and Antwon Harmon, forward, are 6-7. "We're sweating it out," Lou Carnesecca, the St. John's coach, said before his team left for Dayton. Carnesecca said that if Werdann was limited, or could not play, his place would be taken by a combination of Sean Muto, a 6-11, 245-pound senior center, and Shawnelle Scott, a 6-10, 250-pound freshman forward. The uncertainty of Werdann's contribution is an added complication for the Redmen at the wrong time of the season. St. John's, which had a 15-2 record after its victory at Villanova on Jan. 26, seemed to have corrected its problems with a three-game winning streak against Syracuse, Notre Dame and Georgetown. But the Redmen have played poorly in their last two games, losses to DePaul and Providence. "I know we can play better than that," Carnesecca said in his office earlier this week. "For us to lose our poise was disturbing, especially since we have some experience." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 15, 1991, on Page A00027 of the National edition with the headline: N.C.A.A. TOURNAMENT; Redmen Upbeat on Werdann Status.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »