 Ed Rendell, the former mayor of Philadelphia, defended the honor of Philadelphia fans on Wednesday after GQ magazine declared Eagles and Phillies supporters the worst fans in the United States.   In this case, “worst” means meanest, and Rendell, writing in The Philadelphia Daily News, accused GQ of laziness in  leaning on stereotypes:   Yes, there are a few isolated incidents of bad behavior by Philadelphia fans, but some have been misconstrued by the national press, such as the fans booing Donovan McNabb’s selection on draft day (they weren’t booing McNabb, they were booing the Eagles for not choosing Ricky Williams). But, consider the following incidents committed by other cities’ fans:  Jets fans boo their team’s draft selection not only 1 year, but every year. The national and New York press never mention that. Rendell gave some other examples: In 1986, a Yankees fan threw a knife at the Angels’ Wally Joyner, grazing his arm. In 2010, some Yankees fans in the stands harassed the wife of then-Ranger Cliff Lee. But here’s where it gets a little interesting, no matter what you think of the merits of the argument. Rendell, 67, who completed his second and last term as governor of Pennsylvania in January, has been involved in fan rowdiness himself.  Rendell admitted that he once bet another fan that he couldn’t reach the field with a snowball during a Cowboys-Eagles game: WTAE TV in Pittsburgh:  
His volcanic temper and impulsiveness sometimes raised eyebrows. In 1989, Rendell bet $20 that a fellow football fan couldn’t throw a snowball onto the field during an Eagles-Cowboys game at Veterans Stadium. He lost the bet and the fan’s snowball hit a Cowboy in the back. Rendell later said that it was a ruse to get the drunken man to stop bothering others and leave. The game was known as Bounty Bowl II, and fans threw snowballs, ice and beer at Cowboys Coach Jimmy Johnson as he left the field. (video above). This past season, Rendell, who serves as a postgame analyst on Eagles games for Comcast SportsNet,  inserted himself into the news by criticizing the postponement of the Eagles-Vikings game. A big snowstorm in Philadelphia was the reason for the postponement. “My biggest beef is that this is part of what’s happened in this country,” Rendell said. “We’ve become a nation of wusses. The Chinese are kicking our butt in everything.”   Extra point:  Rendell is persuasive no matter what he’s advocating, and his passionate defense of Philadelphia’s fans is worth reviewing, but maybe someone else should have been the messenger?  The New York Times will report on the Giants and Jets throughout the season. You can also find links to coverage from around the league, tips for your fantasy football team and discussion with other football fans. 
			The content on the Fifth Down blog is moving to the pro football page on nytimes.com.Read more… 
			The Jets receiver became a critic of the game and its role in American society. But the decision to walk away was also personal.Read more… 
			John Idzik, the general manager of the Jets, will not retain Scott Cohen, the assistant general manager. Ari Nissim, another high-ranking executive, also will depart.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, answers questions from readers.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, will answer questions from readers.Read more… Follow Advertisement