Advertisement  TENNIS  McEnroe Loses in Stockholm John McEnroe, who had made the finals in each of his five previous appearances in the Stockholm Open, bowed out in the third round yesterday to Goran Ivanisevic. The big-serving Yugoslav broke McEnroe once in each set for a 6-4, 6-4 victory to set up a quarterfinal meeting with Boris Becker. Becker, seeded second, beat Richey Reneberg, 6-4, 6-3. Edberg, making few mistakes, moved into the round of eight after beating Marc Rosset of Switzerland, 6-4, 6-4. Edberg will face Brad Gilbert today. The seventh-seeded Gilbert downed Andrei Chesnokov of the Soviet Union, 6-3, 6-4. Earlier, the United States Open champion, Pete Sampras, squeezed into the quarterfinals after winning a third-set tie breaker over Petr Korda of Czechoslovakia. Sampras won, 6-3, 3-6, 7-6, on the Globe Arena's fast Supreme Court. Wheaton, unseeded, eliminated No. 12 Michael Chang, 6-7, 6-2, 6-3. Also advancing to the quarterfinals were Nicklas Kulti of Sweden and Aleksandr Volkov of the Soviet Union. (AP) Advertisement Tauziat to Meet Graf Again: Nathalie Tauziat of France headed for another quarterfinal match with Steffi Graf by beating Catherine Suire, 7-6, 6-4, yesterday in the W.I.T.A. indoor tournament in Brighton, England. Tauziat has played Graf 11 times in her career, five times in a quarterfinal, and she has never won more than five games in any match against the world's top-ranked female player. Advertisement In other second-round matches, seventh-seeded Sabine Appelmans of Belgium was upset, 6-2, 7-5, by Cathy Caverzasio of Italy, and unseeded Sara Gomer of Britain eliminated Pilar Vasquez of Peru, 6-7, 6-4, 6-4. Graf reached the quarterfinals yesterday by defeating Nathalie Herreman in straight sets.(AP) HOCKEY Bruins Stop Losing Streak Reggie Lemelin shut out Vancouver for more than 57 minutes and Boston held on for a 4-2 victory over the Canucks last night, ending a losing streak at four games. Lemelin, a 13-year veteran who will be 36 on Nov. 19, appeared en route to his 12th career shutout until the Canucks threw a scare into the Bruins. The Canucks trailed by 2-0 until Trevor Linden ruined the shutout bid by intercepting Jim Wiemer's pass in the Boston zone and scoring his fifth goal with 2:48 remaining. The Canucks pulled its goalie, Troy Gamble, for a sixth skater and the strategy paid off at 18:33 as Garth Butcher scored his second goal, beating Lemelin from just outside the crease.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Vancouver pressed for the tying goal, but the Bruins checked the comeback bid as Cam Neely fed Bob Carpenter, who scored into an empty net with four seconds remaining. It was Carpenter's first goal of the season. (AP) Blues 8, Maple Leafs 5: Brett Hull recorded the first back-to-back hat tricks in Blues history as St. Louis routed Toronto at home. Hull got his league-leading 11th, 12th and 13th goals by 1:18 of the second period -- one night after getting three goals and eight shots in the Blues' 8-3 victory at Toronto. The three-goal performance was the seventh of Hull's career, all in the last two seasons. He deflected a pass off his skate and into the net at 4:41 of the first period, put a wrist shot between the legs of goaltender Jeff Reese at 15:45 and scored from a bad angle on a rebound during a power play for his third goal early in the second period. (AP) Advertisement Blackhawks 3, Capitals 2: Steve Larmer scored eight seconds into overtime to give the Blackhawks the victory at home. Larmer's second goal of the game and ninth of the season came when he beat the goalie Don Beaupre to the glove side with a 20-foot shot from the left wing. The Chicago defenseman Chris Chelios knocked in a rebound at 5.53 of the final period to tie the game at 2-2. Beaupre stopped Wayne Presley's 15-footer from the bottom of the left circle. But Chelios charged down the slot, picked up the rebound and scored his fourth goal of the season. (AP) Penguins 6, Nordiques 3: The left wing Kevin Stevens had his second career hat trick and the Penguins scored on their first four shots to make a quick exit for Quebec. (AP) We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 26, 1990, on Page A00032 of the National edition with the headline: Results Plus.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »