Advertisement By MALCOLM MORAN and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES In the kind of game that the 45-second shot clock supposedly eliminated, the University of Connecticut Huskies were pushed to the limit tonight in a come-from-behind 49-48 victory over Yale. The Bulldogs (1-2) controlled the pace of the game against the defending Big East Conference champions by taking just 34 shots, and making 17. Yale outrebounded the Huskies, 29-19. They went ahead by 10 points on the way to an 8-point halftime lead. And before a noisy, pro-Connecticut crowd of 7,873 at the New Haven Coliseum, the Bulldogs had their chance to win when Dean Campbell, a Yale senior who led his team with 7 rebounds, recovered a loose ball with 14 seconds to play. Desperation Shot After two Yale timeouts with 9 seconds to go, Ed Peterson took an inbounds pass and was met by the Connecticut junior Chris Smith. Peterson, who scored 12 points, stumbled as he tried to position himself for a shot. He fell to one knee, recovered, and forced a 19-foot shot that fell short of the rim as the horn sounded. Advertisement For the Huskies, who have struggled despite a 3-0 record, the search for a successful combination, with the expectations created by last season's rush to a regional final in the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament, was complicated by a series of minor injuries. Advertisement Smith led the Huskies with 15 points, and Rod Sellers had 12. When Smith put the Huskies ahead, 40-38, on a jump shot with 6 minutes 43 seconds to play, the Bulldogs fell behind for the first time in the game with the exception of a stretch of 3:23 in the first half. 'Just a Game of Numbers'  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Bulldogs, who did not play a post-season game last March despite a 19-7 record, established a deliberate and effective pace when their first 5 field goals in the game came on shots that were taken with 13 or fewer seconds to go on the shot clock. "We don't have a psychic makeup for that," said Jim Calhoun, the Connecticut coach. "We felt if we forced Connecticut to play a half-court game, they would be less effective," Campbell said. "It's just a game of numbers." Calhoun said the unusual pace of the game made it impossible for him to evaluate the growth of his team. "I don't feel any less about my team," Calhoun said. "I don't feel any more about my team." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 30, 1990, on Page A00031 of the National edition with the headline: Yale Scares Connecticut.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »