Advertisement  AP The International Olympic Committee plans to meet formally with government and sports leaders in South Africa for the first time since the I.O.C. expelled the racially divided nation more than 20 years ago. One anti-apartheid leader called the move among the most significant steps yet toward ending South Africa's international sports' isolation. Another held out the possibility of South African athletes competing in the 1992 Olympics, but stressed that a final decision would depend on how the rest of Africa viewed reforms by the Pretoria government. The I.O.C.'s executive board took the action at the first day of its meeting in Lillehammer, Norway, where the 1994 Winter Olympics will be staged. The I.O.C. accepted a proposal by its special commission on apartheid in sports to send a five-member delegation to Johannesburg in April, the first time since South Africa was expelled in a meeting in Amsterdam in 1970 that I.O.C. members have officially contacted South Africa. Advertisement "It is significant for the I.O.C.," said Fekrou Kidane, a journalist and anti-apartheid activist who works as a consultant for the committee on third world matters. "They want to see what is what. They want the full view of the situation. It is among the most dramatic developments."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The exact dates, length of stay and the officials to be contacted during the I.O.C. visit were not disclosed. Keba Mbaye of Senegal, the commission chairman, was quoted by NTB, the Norwegian news agency, as holding open the possibility of South African participation in the Barcelona Summer Games in 1992. Other I.O.C. officials, including the I.O.C. president, Juan Antonio Samaranch, have mentioned the 1996 Summer Games in Atlanta as the most likely time for a return. Advertisement The I.O.C. has repeatedly said that apartheid must be abolished before South Africa is readmitted. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 10, 1990, on Page C00003 of the National edition with the headline: OLYMPICS; I.O.C. and South Africa Set Talks After 20 Years.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »