A few players are warming up on the grass in advance of the season’s first game at Citi Field.  The Mets’ lineup has been posted.    Jose Reyes SS
   Angel Pagan CF
   David Wright 3B
   Carlos Beltran CF
   Ike Davis 1B
   Willie Harris LF
   Brad Emaus 2B
   Josh Thole C
   R.A. Dickey RHP   Davis, Harris, Emaus and Dickey are appearing in their first Mets home opener. Dickey will throw the first pitch of the game, scheduled for 4:10 p.m., and Ralph Kiner will throw out the ceremonial first pitch.   Jordan Zimmerman is set to start for the Nationals. He is 1-1 with a 3.54 earned run average against the Mets. Dickey is also 1-1 against Friday’s opposition, with a 4.18 E.R.A.   Mike Pelfrey, who was roughed up by the Philadelphia Phillies in his last start Wednesday, played long toss in the outfield and is now in the bullpen for an important bullpen session.  The pitching coach, Dan Warthen, and the bullpen coach, Jon Debus, are watching him intently. The New York Times reporters Tyler Kepner, Ben Shpigel, Jack Curry and Joe Lapointe, along with their Times colleagues, will bring baseball fans inside the run up to the 2008 baseball season with access, analysis and the latest updates from spring training. Tyler Kepner has covered the Yankees for The New York Times since 2002.  He joined The Times in 2000 as the Mets beat writer. A native of Philadelphia and a graduate of Vanderbilt University, Kepner has also covered the Angels for the Riverside Press-Enterprise in California and the Mariners for the Seattle Post-Intelligencer. He lives in Connecticut with his wife and their four children. Ben Shpigel has covered the Mets for The Times since 2005. Before then, he was a staff writer for the Dallas Morning News for two years. He also worked at The News Journal in Wilmington, Del., and for the Atlanta Journal-Constitution.  Shpigel received a bachelor's degree in English and journalism from Emory University and a master's degree in journalism from Columbia University. He and his wife, Rebecca, live in Manhattan. Jack Curry has covered baseball for the The New
York Times for 18 seasons.  Since 1998, he has served as the newspaper's national baseball writer.  Before that, Curry covered the Yankees from 1991-1997.  He was also the beat writer for the New Jersey Nets' 1990-1991 season and covered college basketball, college football and wrote for the Metro section. Born in Jersey City, N.J., Curry graduated from Fordham University. He and his wife, Pamela, live in New Jersey. 
			This blog’s regular features, including live game analysis, news and notes from Tyler Kepner, David Waldstein and others, can now be found on the baseball section of our website.Read more… 
			The free-agent second baseman Robinson Cano is reportedly still seeking a 10-year deal for $310 million, figures the Yankees are said to be unwilling to meet. Read more… 
			When asked what he has done thus far in the off-season, Mets General Manager Sandy Alderson responded with a joke. Read more… 
			The Mets maybe should, but most assuredly won’t, defy all expectations and make a legitimate bid to lure Robinson Cano away from the Yankees.Read more… 
			The Yankees are waiting to hear whether Curtis Granderson will accept their qualifying offer, and set their outfield for 2014, or test the market and send the Yankees chasing another free agent. Read more… Follow Advertisement