Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 18, 2014
 T. J. Warren scored 16 of his 25 points in the second half to lift North Carolina State over Xavier, 74-59, in an N.C.A.A. tournament First Four game in Dayton, Ohio, on Tuesday night. The 12th-seeded Wolfpack (22-12) pulled away in the final 11 minutes, led by the sophomore Warren, the Atlantic Coast Conference player of the year. Matt Stainbrook led Xavier (21-14) with 19 points and 9 rebounds despite an injured left knee. North Carolina State will meet St. Louis in Orlando, Fla., on Thursday. ALBANY 71, MT. ST. MARY’S 64 D. J. Evans scored 22 points, including two clinching free throws with 12.6 seconds left, to lead Albany past Mount St. Mary’s in Dayton for its first N.C.A.A. tournament victory. Advertisement It was a game of turnarounds, with the Great Danes bolting to leads of 13-0 and 21-2, only for the Mountaineers (16-17) bounce back with a 21-2 run of their own to pull even. The freshman Will Miller led Mount St. Mary’s with 21 points, all on 3-pointers. Albany (19-14) will meet the overall No. 1 seed, Florida, on Thursday in Orlando. AUBURN HIRES PEARL Auburn said that it had hired Bruce Pearl, a former Tennessee coach, to revive a struggling program that has not been to the N.C.A.A. tournament in more than a decade. Advertisement Pearl led Tennessee to the N.C.A.A. tournament in each of his six seasons before being fired in March 2011 in the wake of an N.C.A.A. investigation. He remains under an N.C.A.A. recruiting ban until August. Pearl was cited for lying to investigators about improperly hosting recruits at his home and for interfering with the investigation by contacting a recruit’s father. In a letter to fans posted on Auburn’s website, Athletic Director Jay Jacobs said he believed Pearl had “learned from his mistake.” Pearl succeeds Tony Barbee, who was fired about two hours after the Tigers lost to South Carolina in the first round of the Southeastern Conference tournament. A version of this article appears in print on March 19, 2014, on Page B16 of the New York edition with the headline: Warren Lifts N.C. State to Win.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »