United States Coach Bob Bradley made five changes to his starting lineup for Tuesday’s exhibition match against Paraguay in Nashville. The more noteworthy change is how those players will line up: Bradley has the U.S. in a 4-4-2 for the game, rather than the much more defensive — and largely ineffective, offensively at least — 4-5-1 that the Americans used in the first half Saturday’s 1-1 tie against Argentina.  The U.S. lineup: Marcus Hahnemann; Timmy Chandler, Jay DeMerit, Tim Ream, Jonathan Bornstein; Clint Dempsey, Maurice Edu, Michael Bradley, Landon Donovan (c); Jozy Altidore, Juan Agudelo. Marcus Hahnemann replaces Tim Howard in goal, and Juan Agudelo is rewarded for his performance on Saturday with his first start for the national team. The biggest changes are to the back four: Timmy Chandler, Tim Ream and Jonathan Bornstein replace Jonathan Spector, Oguchi Onyewu and Carlos Bocanegra. One has to think that if the injured Clarence Goodson and Omar Gonzalez had been available, Bradley might have trotted out an entirely new back four. He clearly feels much more certain of his choices in midfield, where Maurice Edu, Michael Bradley and Landon Donovan remain in their usual places. (Does his lineup card come preprinted with their names now?)  Now if he can just get this lineup to produce a lead for a change …. Goal, The New York Times soccer blog, will report on news and features from the world of soccer and around the Web.  Times editors and reporters will follow international tournaments and provide analysis of games. There will be interviews with players, coaches and notable soccer fans, as well as a weekly blog column by Red Bulls forward Jozy Altidore.  Readers can discuss Major League Soccer, foreign leagues and other issues with fellow soccer fans.
	 
			The Goal blog’s regular features, including live match analysis, player ratings from key matches, reader discussion, news and notes and more, can now be found on the soccer section front.Read more… 
			Crystal Palace won promotion to England’s Premier League on Monday. Now the club must retool under Manager Ian Holloway if it is to avoid relegation next season.Read more… 
			When congress opens, FIFA will be dealing with issues from President Sepp Blatter’s possible run for another term to accusations of vote-rigging among executive committee members.Read more… 
			Sacha Kljestan, who just won his second straight Belgian title with Anderlecht, could have a role to play for the United States in its exhibition against Belgium on Wednesday.Read more… 
			Alonso Hernandez, who plays in Mexico for Monterrey but has never represented the United States at any level, will get a chance to earn a place on the Under-20 World Cup team.Read more… Follow Advertisement