Advertisement By E.R. SHIPP and  Mike Tyson walks through the lobby of the City-County Building each day as if he were the world heavyweight champion entering the ring, with people cheering, applauding and reaching out to touch him. "We know you didn't do it!" they yell as he makes his way to the second-floor courtroom where he is on trial on charges of raping a woman last July, a trial that continues Monday. "Hang in there!" they scream. Kids, middle-aged men and women, blacks, whites -- they all become enthralled when Tyson is near. "Guess what? I almost touched Mike Tyson's hand!" one man was heard shouting into a telephone minutes after Tyson had passed. Advertisement On Thursday afternoon, a recess was called while Tyson's accuser, a primly dressed woman who seemed much younger than her 18 years of age, was on the witness stand. She had been describing in graphic detail the horror she said she had endured in the boxer's hotel suite. Advertisement As the recess took effect and she was escorted out of the courtroom, some of the spectators rushed up to Tyson. And there he stood, in the courtroom, signing autographs until the recess was over and the woman resumed her testimony. The accuser is a longtime member of a Baptist church in Rhode Island. She is a vice president of the church's usher board and teaches children in the early grades in Sunday school. Tyson is a member of the Holy Trinity Baptist Church in Cleveland, where he was baptized three years ago in a service that drew 700 people, including the Rev. Jesse Jackson and hordes of reporters. The woman has testified that she thought Tyson was a "nice person" when they first met, the day before the alleged rape. At that first encounter, he was wearing a button that said "Together in Christ" and later that same day she saw him praying with Jackson. His first words to her, she said, were: "You're a nice Christian girl, right?" She responded, "Yeah." That she may be, but the nation's largest black religious denomination, the 8.5 million member National Baptist Convention, U.S.A., Inc., has sided with Tyson. At a rally sponsored here Friday night by the national organization, local churches and Louis Farrakhan's Nation of Islam, several hundred people cheered when the Rev. Dr. Theodore J. Jemison, the National Baptist president, told them: "Our brother needs us."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. As Tyson sat in the pulpit of Christ Missionary Baptist Church with other ministers and elected officials, they wrapped him in their affection with songs and prayers. Advertisement The next morning some women here expressed their pique at the preachers. The men may hold sway in the pulpits, but the women had the floor in the beauty parlors. "So tell me," one beautician said while she tended to a client in a North Side salon, "did they pray for this woman?"  Dial a Deliberation There are telephone numbers to call for the time, the weather, sports scores and lottery numbers. So why not an update on the Tyson trial? Each day, Judge Patricia J. Gifford has her law clerk, Joe Champion, record a message on a local number that keeps the public apprised of where the trial stands. "This is Jan. 31, 1992," the message recorded after Friday's session began. "The state today called five witnesses and they have been examined. Witnesses will continue to be heard tomorrow, beginning at 9 A.M. The court is expected to conduct a full court session, beginning at 9 A.M. and ending about 6 P.M." Last Tuesday, when the public called, they learned that 17 passes to the trial would be available the next day. So several of them began queuing up before dawn. After passes were distributed, the scalping began. V. John Toms, a bail bondsman, bought a pass for $100. "You pay $25 for a concert ticket and this is much more important," he said. What Is Resistance? So just what    is    the rule? Confusion reigned briefly during jury selection early last week when a deputy prosecutor, Barbara J. Trathen, suggested that all that Indiana law requires is that a woman say no to unwelcome sexual advances. Once upon a time, she said, women had to physically resist with all their might. But now, she said, "if a woman does not consent, that is sufficient." Foul!, screamed the defense. The judge, refereeing her first public legal dispute in the trial, ruled for the defense. Advertisement "She's not required to have a knock-down, drag-out, but she is required to resist," Gifford ruled. Later, J. Gregory Garrison, the lead prosecutor, attributed Trathen's misstatement to fatigue. Restating the rule, he said: "She must say no and resist reasonably." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 3, 1992, on Page C00007 of the National edition with the headline: BOXING; Notes From Tyson Trial: Many Say It Ain't So.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »