Advertisement Supported by South: Kansas 80, Eastern Kentucky 69 By Bill Pennington ST. LOUIS — The Kansas players were aware of what had happened to Duke earlier Friday. The Blue Devils’ loss to Mercer in the Round of 64 was another reminder of the long history of upsets in the N.C.A.A. tournament, and its impact resonated on the Jayhawks’ bench before their South Region opener. “Nobody wants to be that high seed that gets shocked so that everybody is talking about you afterward,” Kansas forward Tarik Black said. “It’s on your mind. That’s why you see a lot of top-seeded teams playing with tournament jitters. You know what’s going on in your mind and what’s going on in the minds of people watching the game.” Trailing by 7 points early in its game Friday against Eastern Kentucky, second-seeded Kansas rallied. Late in the game, though, the Jayhawks still had not turned away a pesky opponent. The 15th-seeded Colonels were within 3 points with a little more than three minutes left in the second half. Kansas knew what was on people’s minds as the game neared its conclusion. “Somebody had to make some plays,” the Kansas reserve Jamari Traylor said. “We knew it, and Eastern Kentucky knew it.”  20 Photos View Slide Show › Lenny Ignelzi/Associated Press Relying on its depth, superior size and athleticism, the Jayhawks (25-9) averted the upset. With a 16-8 run in the final minutes, Kansas closed out Eastern Kentucky for an 80-69 victory. The Jayhawks won despite being outscored from behind the 3-point line, 36-0. Kansas missed all seven of its 3-point attempts. Andrew Wiggins led Kansas with 19 points, and Traylor contributed 17 points and a game-high 14 rebounds. Glenn Cosey led Eastern Kentucky (24-10) with 17 points. “We were determined not to have that awful feeling tomorrow — and it has to be the worst feeling to go out in your first game,” said Traylor, who was greeted by a loud ovation when he entered the Kansas locker room after the game. “This team knows how to apply pressure when we’re under pressure.” The Jayhawks opened the second half as if they planned to put away Eastern Kentucky so they could coast for the rest of the game. With 15 minutes remaining, Kansas had a 7-point lead. But Colonels guard Tarius Johnson hit a long 3-pointer, and after a miss by Wiggins, Eastern Kentucky’s Eric Stutz burst free for a running dunk. When Johnson buried another 3-pointer, the Colonels suddenly had the lead. It remained a seesaw game for several minutes. But Kansas ultimately wore down the Colonels. Traylor soared to grab a missed free throw and dunked the ball with a little more than eight minutes remaining to give Kansas a 59-56 lead. Wiggins followed with a drive down the lane, which became a 3-point play when he was fouled. Which team do you think will win? Eh, never mind that. Tell us which teams’ losses would give you the greatest joy, and which team’s success would make you most happy. Kansas extended its lead to 7 points again, but back-to-back Eastern Kentucky baskets made it a 3-point game with a little more than three minutes to play. Kansas’ edge on the boards continued to influence the flow of the game. Traylor got another offensive rebound, made a layup and was fouled. When he made the ensuing free throw, Kansas was ahead, 67-61, with 3:19 to play. Eastern Kentucky never seriously threatened again. Kansas’ comeback victory was another chapter in Traylor’s comeback story. Homeless as a teenager, Traylor had a daunting upbringing. “I don’t know that Jamari has had a better or more important game,” Kansas Coach Bill Self said. “You feel great for a kid that’s had to overcome as much as he has.” Eastern Kentucky raced to a 13-6 lead to start the game before Kansas charged back with 5 unanswered points. But the Colonels were not cowed. When Cosey, Eastern Kentucky’s point guard, sank a long 3-point shot, the Colonels’ lead was 23-14. A block by Black led to an alley-oop dunk by Wiggins, which sent the Jayhawks on a 13-5 spurt. But the teams traded baskets in the final minute before halftime, and the score was tied, 32-32, at the break.  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS