Advertisement By THOMAS ROGERS Led by the inspired slam dunks and board-crashing of its 7-foot-1-inch center, Shaquille O'Neal, Louisiana State pulled off the only major upset in college basketball over the weekend, a 92-82 home-court victory over Arizona. The Wildcats from Tucson had won their first seven games and were ranked second by The Associated Press's poll of sportswriters and broadcasters, 15 berths ahead of L.S.U. O'Neal dominated Saturday's game with a career-high 29 points, 14 rebounds and 6 blocked shots as the Tigers won for the fourth time in five games. On Friday night against Chapman College, a Division III school, the 18-year-old sophomore had 18 points, 16 rebounds and 6 blocks in only 20 minutes of playing time. "I tried to dominate the game," O'Neal told The Associated Press after the victory over Arizona. "I went out and played hard. I got into foul trouble as usual, but we played hard and we played as a team and we won." Advertisement Dale Brown, the L.S.U. coach, has helped his bright prospect along by bringing in Kareem Abdul-Jabbar and Bill Walton to give O'Neal some pointers on playing the pivot. Advertisement "I'd rather go on the road and play a non-conference game like this and get beat than play cupcakes at home," said Coach Lute Olson of Arizona, whose team was facing L.S.U. in basketball for the first time. Redmen Take Tourney St. John's, ranked No. 17, swept to its sixth victory without a loss as the Redmen won the championship in the Coungar Classic at Provo, Utah, by defeating Brigham Young, the host team, 67-62.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. As usual, Malik Sealy led St. John's, with 26 points, and he was selected the tournament's most valuable player. The Redmen led, 37-26, at halftime, but the Cougars closed to 59-55 with less than five minutes remaining before a 7-2 run by St. John's clinched the victory. Shawn Bradley, B.Y.U.'s 7-foot-6-inch center, led his team with 19 points. Top-ranked Nevada-Las Vegas sank a school-record 21 shots from 3-point range as the Runnin' Rebels crushed Nevada-Reno, 131-81, for their second victory in two games. The defending national champions broke the game open with a 34-10 streak over the final nine minutes of the first half with seven 3-pointers in the spurt. The guard Travis Bice scored all of his 18 points on 3-point shots, missing 10 shots from that range, and Anderson Hunt and Greg Anthony each hit four 3-pointers. "Our whole plan was to try to make them shoot the outside shot and Bice had his way with it," said Coach Len Stevens of Nevada. "They just wore us down." Arkansas Ends Missouri Streak Arkansas, ranked No. 3, won by 95-82 to snap Missouri's home winning streak at 34. Fourth-ranked Syracuse won the Carrier Classic and Coach Jim Boeheim achieved his 350th victory with a 113-99 rout of North Carolina-Charlotte. Duke, No. 5, rang up its 61st consecutive home victory against teams outside the Atlantic Coast Conference, winning by 75-68 over Michigan. Sixth-ranked Georgetown, missing the injured Alonzo Mourning, overcame a sluggish shooting performance to top Rice, 53-47. Indiana, No. 7, routed San Diego, 91-64, in the final of the Hoosier Classic as Calbert Cheaney scored 25 points. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 10, 1990, on Page C00007 of the National edition with the headline: COLLEGE BASKETBALL; O'Neal of L.S.U. Dominates Arizona.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »