Advertisement By AL HARVIN and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES Ken O'Brien's status as the starting quarterback for the Jets was in limbo today after he was benched in the fourth quarter of Sunday's 24-7 loss to Pittsburgh and replaced by Tony Eason. "I haven't decided as yet, maybe on Wednesday," was all Bruce Coslet, the Jets' coach, would say when asked if there would be any lineup changes for the game in San Diego this week. When he was pressed specifically on the quarterback question, he said, "I thought I already answered that question." When he was pressed again, Coslet said: "I'm not ruling out the tight end, the right guard, the free safety, the wide receiver or anything. I don't know what I'm going to do. I'm being honest with you, O.K.? I really don't know if that would do any good. "If it's good for the team I'll make the change. If I don't think it's good for the team, I won't make the change." Steinberg Quiet on Future Advertisement The Jets' general manager, Dick Steinberg, was noncommittal about his plans for the Jets' future. "I'm not going to go on record on our quarterbacks and I'm not going to get involved in beating up on our current players," he said. Advertisement "I don't think there's another Jeff George out there next year," said Steinberg, referring to the rookie quarterback for the Indianapolis Colts who was the first pick of the last draft. In any event the Jets don't even have a first-round choice next spring after taking Rob Moore in the supplemental draft this year." O'Brien, when asked about his benching by Coslet on Sunday, said: "I really haven't talked to him at all. All that is his decision." The Jets were only able to muster 173 yards of total offense in Sunday's game and O'Brien's passing statistics were a paltry 9 for 17 for 117 yards. He threw for one touchdown, but was intercepted twice. Eason wasn't much better, going 1 for 5 for 5 yards. No Sustained Offense  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The offense seemed unable to hold onto the ball and to mount a sustained offense. They had their lowest time of possession of the year, 20 minutes 35 seconds, and with the exception of Moore's 53-yard scoring pass from O'Brien, the Jets never got closer than the Pittsburgh 34-yard line. The benching must have been especially embarrassing for O'Brien, coming two days before his 30th birthday and on the day his former mentor, Joe Walton, returned to Giants Stadium as the Steelers' offensive coordinator. Walton, who has improved every quarterback he has coached -- Norm Snead and Fran Tarkenton with the Giants, Joe Theisman with the Redskins and Richard Todd and O'Brien with the Jets -- arrived with his latest project, Bubby Brister, in tow. O'Brien was rated 11th in the American Conference before Sunday's game, his 74.9 rating nearly 10 points lower than his career mark, while Brister was fourth in the A.F.C. at 84.0, almost 20 points above his career 64.7 at the start of the season. Whatever Coslet does about the quarterback situation, he insisted that he had not given up on this season, his first as a head coach. "No, that's the worst thing in the world we can do," he said. "For a lot of us there may be no next year. I want to get it done this week. We're not thinking about the bye or whoever we play after that, about Christmas or anything. We're thinking about getting it done this week." Kelly Out for Chargers' Game The only Jet reported definitely too injured to play in next Sunday's game against the Chargers in San Diego was the linebacker Joe Kelly, who has a sprained right knee. He'll have an extra week of rest because of the bye the following week. . . . Listed as doubtful for the next game are Mike Haight, the guard, with a turf toe. Darrell Davis, the defensive end, also has a turf toe but is listed as questionable, while Duane Thomas, the running back who missed Sunday's game with an ankle injury is listed as probable along with his backfield mate Johnny Hector, who has a pinched nerve in the neck and Jeff Lageman, who has a bruised arm. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 27, 1990, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: Jets' Quarterback Picture Cloudy.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »