Advertisement By JOE LAPOINTE and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES With his game-winning goal Tuesday night in Detroit, Brett Hull of St. Louis has scored 15 times in the first 12 games of the season. That pace over the 80-game schedule would give him 100; the record is 92, set by Wayne Gretzky in 1981-82. "I'm not going to talk about that," Hull said of his record pace. "It's 12 games into the season." After leading the league with 72 goals last season and signing a new contract for more than $1 million a season, was Hull worried about a slow start? "I was scared to death," Hull said, adding that he was deadly serious about his fears. Perhaps people would have said he is overpaid and complacent. Hull said he is annoyed by negative publicity about how his salary is causing inflation for the rest of the league. Advertisement "I've never seen a business that doesn't win without spending money," he said. "There are so many great players who haven't been getting the money they deserve for so long it is scary." Advertisement When someone joked that, in view of his torrid start, he might be underpaid, Hull replied with a smile, "I'm not going to renegotiate." Inquiry Into Bruin Victory Brian O'Neill, executive vice president of the N.H.L., viewed videotape in Boston yesterday with off-ice officials who work Bruins' home games in Boston Garden. O'Neill is investigating events at the end of Saturday night's 5-4 victory by the Bruins. During the last minute of play, it appeared to many at the game that Chicago had tied the score. But the goal light didn't go on and, some insist, the last seconds were allowed to tick off the clock after play stopped.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "The integrity of the game was jeopardized," said Mike Keenan, coach and general manager of the Blackhawks, who was restrained after the game when he tried to confront the off-ice officials. "Why did the goal judge not put the light on? Why did the timekeeper continue to let the clock run out when the referee signaled a goal with three seconds left on the clock? Why did the referee not confer with the goal judge? Why did the referee not confer with the timekeeper until he had already made his decision? How can five people in this particular case make a mistake? This is not a witch hunt. It has to do with the integrity of the game." Keenan said he has videotape that shows the puck in the net with time left on the clock. He said referees should use such videotape to settle such disputes. After the game, Keenan charged that off-ice officials are hired by Harry Sinden, general manager of the Bruins, and should be dismissed. Sinden said today that the league hires them after the home team recommends them. Sinden also conceded, "Obviously, somebody erred." Tour of Expansion Sites Advertisement An N.H.L. subcommittee on expansion is scheduled to tour three cities in Florida on Thursday. Mike Ilitch, owner of the Detroit Red Wings, Marcel Aubut, owner of the Quebec Nordiques, and Gilbert Stein, the league's general counsel, will visit Tampa, St. Petersburg and Miami. The N.H.L. has said it hopes to name at least two more expansion cities when its governors meet during the first week in December. Godfrey Wood, a Harvard goalie in the early 1960's, said he was optimistic that his Miami group would be chosen. "Very much so," he said. "We've got a great market, a strong ownership group, a good facility. In terms of what the league needs -- major markets to expand into where they can build on their TV contract -- Miami and South Florida is the sixth-largest market in the country." On the negative side, Wood said he could not yet reveal the names of investors who would put up the $50 million entry fee. Although ice conditions were terrible for an exhibition game there in September, Wood said those problems can be corrected easily. Although the potential team has a new building in which to play, it would have to share it with the Miami Heat of the National Basketball Association. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 1, 1990, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: PRO HOCKEY: NOTEBOOK; Blues' Star Is Looking Like a Million.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »