Advertisement By JOE SEXTON It could not have been diagrammed more perfectly. The puck, in continuous movement and with impeccable marksmanship, was zipped from right point to left point, from there to deep in the left slot, and then in an instant in front of the goal mouth. From there, the geometry was elementary. ''Once you get the hang of it,'' Darren Turcotte said of the stuff shot he executed to record the decisive goal for the Rangers, ''it's like walking. It doesn't take much work.'' And so with one display of precision, the Rangers offset an uneven, often ungainly performance and secured a 5-3 victory last night over the Winnipeg Jets at Madison Square Garden. ''When you have a 5-on-3 advantage, you should be able to do a good job with the puck,'' Roger Neilson, the coach of the Rangers, said of the situation that produced the critical goal early in the third period. ''We've been executing it well.''  Fifth Straight Victory The sequence occurred when the Jets found themselves down two men for 42 seconds with the game even at 3-3 and 2 minutes 30 seconds gone in the final period. Just 17 seconds later, the puck was in the net and the Rangers were on their way to their fifth straight triumph. Advertisement James Patrick slid the puck to Brian Leetch, who fed Ray Sheppard to Stephane Beauregard's right. Sheppard, fighting the urge to shoot, instead feathered a pinpoint pass to Turcotte. Advertisement ''I had the option to shoot,'' said Sheppard. ''As soon as the defenseman shaded to me, though, I was going to Turcotte. He made no mistake.''  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Mike Gartner then left no doubts about the final result by scoring his second goal past Beauregard 11 minutes later. The goal, in addition to securing the victory, extended what is developing into a nearly scary offensive run for the right wing. Gartner, acquired from the North Stars late last season, has now scored 18 goals in 19 games as a member of the Rangers, including 13 in the third period and seven in seven games this season. ''You get in a groove, you let it go,'' said Gartner. ''What can I say? It's been a big groove.'' The Rangers were embarrassed by the Jets through the game's second 20 minutes and were more than mildly fortunate to be level at 3-3 entering the third period. John Vanbiesbrouck, in a performance that alternated from sensational to sad, was twice beaten cleanly from long range as the Jets outscored the Rangers 2-1 to erase their early deficit. Dave Ellett, unloading a distant bomb of a slap shot from 50 feet, had the puck clang off the right post and into the net, the echoing ring an alarm that perhaps Vanbiesbrouck wasn't going to be the perfect goaltender he had been in blanking the Montreal Canadiens in his previous outing last Friday. The goal, the fourth of the season for one of the four offensively productive Winnipeg defensemen, evened the game at 2-2 at 6 minutes 41 seconds of the period. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 18, 1990, on Page B00018 of the National edition with the headline: Rangers Win With Two in 3d.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »