Advertisement By GEORGE VECSEY Maybe you saw them on television at the Monday night football game, four of them standing on the sideline near the Los Angeles Raiders. One of them wore the ominous black-and-white Raiders shirt with the legend Laimbeer 40 on it. Another wore a shirt with Thomas 11 on it. The other two, James Edwards and Joe Dumars, were as incognito as two-time pro basketball champions can be, rooting for the bad boys of football in front of a national television audience. It was no coincidence, no idle hero-worship, that four Pistons were on the sideline of the legendary skull-and-crossbones gang. Advertisement The Pistons' love of the Raiders is like the commercial in which a spaceship disgorges a swarm of Rodney Dangerfield clones. The real Rodney, on the ground, shouts, "Hey, what a bunch of good-looking guys!" Advertisement The Raiders of the short-pants set came rollicking into Miami on Monday, just in time for four of them them to root their alter egos to a 13-10 victory over the Dolphins. Then the Pistons did their own elbow-and-sneer routine over the Miami Heat on Tuesday night. Afterward, Isiah Thomas explained his lifelong affinity for the Raiders. Although he grew up in Chicago and now plays in Detroit, Isiah said he has always rooted for the team that began in Oakland. "I could tell you all their numbers," he said, smiling reverently about the assorted bullies and cutthroats Al Davis assembled. Bill Laimbeer said he, too, formed a bond for the Raiders, but only through the affable, suave, mild-mannered Notre Dame lads like himself who went on to play for the Oaklands. The link was forged between these two organizations in Los Angeles in June 1988, when Thomas sprained his ankle as the Pistons lost the sixth game of the finals. "The Lakers wouldn't let me use their facilities," Thomas recalled, a glint of malice just below his ever-present smile. Advertisement Thomas's predicament reached Mike Ornstein, then the press officer with the Raiders, whose training base is in El Segundo, near the Forum. "Al Davis arranged for us to use their training room, everything," Thomas said. "Their two trainers, Rod Martin and Todd Sperber, worked on me for 14 or 15 hours straight to get the swelling down."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Helped by the treatment, Thomas was able to play in the seventh game, which the Lakers won. And the Pistons were now serious members of the Raiders' family. "They gave us shirts," Thomas said. "That's where we picked up our attitude." Well, some people would insist that the Pistons were a bit rough around the edges before using Al Davis's whirlpool. Years before, they were champions, Rick Mahorn and Laimbeer set a tone for smirking and swatting. Hours after the Pistons won the 1989 championship, Mahorn was given away in the expansion draft. According to legend, Laimbeer then proclaimed that Mahorn was now the enemy, and, personally, Just Plain Bill did not want to talk to him any longer. "That sounds like Bill," impish Scott Hastings, the Pistons' 12th man, said Tuesday. "Bill has a nice side to him that he tries to keep only to his family." The Pistons are now two-time champions, who should be appreciated for their crisp passing and opportunistic defense even more than their just-win-baby persona straight out of Al Davis. In 26 other cities, the fans come to hate them. The soft pastels of the Miami Arena do not camouflage the hip, urban aggressions of the fans (about 75 percent Manhattan and 25 percent Havana), who came out to hiss the Pistons Tuesday night. "Hey, Chuckie baby, the jacket doesn't match the pants," one fan jeered at dapper Chuck Daly, the coach. Advertisement "Hey, Salley, baby, you got a girl's name," a fan shouted at elongated John Salley, who does stand-up comedy in his spare time. "Yeah, but I have two championship rings," said Salley, as he crouched in front of the scoring table. After a Jack Benny pause, Salley added, "Would you like me to show them to you?" as he displayed two fingers not normally associated with rings. The fans cheered his comedian's timing. As the Pistons' guards played their zippy game, the big boys muscled and provoked the home troops. "I don't think they're trying to knock your eyeballs out," said Willie Burton, a rookie, "but I don't think things just happen. When they throw those cheap shots, you have to hold your ground. You have to give them credit. That's why they're good." Al Davis, the patron saint of the Pistons, would approve. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 23, 1990, on Page D00011 of the National edition with the headline: SPORTS OF THE TIMES; The Raiders' Tallest Fan Club.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »