Advertisement By ALEX YANNIS The managament, the coaches and the players of the Devils agree wholeheartedly that for a team to win the Stanley Cup, it has to finish among the top five teams in the National Hockey League in the regular season. "When you're in the top five," Lou Lamoriello, the New Jersey president, said yesterday, "it means you play consistently well and you can carry it through the playoffs." Lamoriello and John Cunniff, who is in his first full season as coach, said this week that they were satisfied with the Devils' progress so far this season and were encouraged enough to express Stanley Cup aspirations for their team. Based on the team's overall performance in the first half of the season, Lamoriello, Cunniff and the rest of the Devils have every right to aim for hockey's ultimate prize. Advertisement Despite an ineffective Sean Burke, the goalie who is supposed to be the cornerstone of the franchise, the Devils are on the verge of making the top-five list late in the season for the first time in their history. Advertisement Even with Burke winning only six times (6-6-4) in the first 40 games, the Devils finished the first half of the season Saturday night with a record of 19-13-8, thanks primarily to superb goaltending by Chris Terreri. 'Story of the Year' Terreri went 13-7-4 in the first 40 games and his emergence as the team's premier goaltender is the reason the Devils were playing for a share of first place in the Patrick Division last night against the Rangers. "Chris is the story of the year so far," said Eric Weinrich, the rookie defenseman, who is a good story himself as the league's leader in plus-minus ratio with a plus-25 going into Saturday night's games. In addition to Terreri, the best news for the Devils so far has been the play of the right wing John MacLean, who is developing into a genuine all-star. Going into the game last night at Madison Square Garden, MacLean was second in the league in goals with 27 in the first 40 games, putting him on pace to become the team's first 50-goal scorer. He had 41 last year and 42 the season before. Burke Has Been Injured "We're fortunate to have the type of goaltending we have with Sean and Chris," was the way it was put by Lamoriello, who coached Terreri at Providence College before becoming president of the team and maybe a little biased. "People lose sight of the fact that Sean was hurt twice this year," was the way Max McNab, the executive vice president, attempted to explain the difference between Terreri and Burke, who suffered from lower back spasms in the pre-season and then missed three games in the frist month after straining his right knee.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. If there has been one turning point in the season thus far for the Devils, it was the back-to-back victories over Philadelphia behind Terreri, after Burke had lost game No. 20 to Hartford at home and had beeen jeered mercilessly by the crowd. Advertisement "I feel more comfortable now," said the 25-year-old Terreri, who is in his second full season in the league. "I know now that I can play in this league. I don't get nervous before games or anything." Terreri has appeared in six consecutive games twice, the first time primarily because Burke injured his right knee and the second time simply because Burke was ineffective. After Burke lost to the Washington Capitals on Dec. 7, to put the team's record at 15-11-4, Terreri appeared in the next six games before Burke came up with back-to-back victories, over Quebec and Toronto last weekend, for the first time this season. With a goals-against average of 2.74 in his first 24 games, Terreri has helped the team cut down on its overall goals-against average, which appears to be the biggest barometer of a team's success in the eyes of Cunniff. "I think we're developing," the coach said. "We know we have the physical ability. Now we have to get it mentally." The Devils showed a lot of mental toughness in a 4-4 deadlock with Buffalo on Saturday night, starting with Cunniff himself. Cunniff could have easily pulled Burke after the towering goaltender allowed four goals on eight shots in the first 23 minutes of the game, but the coach stuck with him and Burke justified Cunniff's decision by playing brilliantly the rest of the way. It was, however, the players, who displayed remarkable composure despite their repeatedly missing chances. They never gave up and tied the game with 2:06 left in regulation on a night they set a franchise record for shots on goal in a game with 54. "No way we would have done this in the past," Kirk Muller said after the Devils came back from a two-goal deficit in the third period. "It's a sign of progress. We just kept digging and digging until we walked out of it with at least a point." Advertisement Said McNab: "Starting with the coach, there's an assortment of the right ingredients here to go far. You have 14 home-brewed players here and that's what wins cups for you." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 31, 1990, on Page 1001045 of the National edition with the headline: Devils Deserve to Ponder Cup.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »