Advertisement  HOCKEY Maple Leafs End Losing Streak Gary Leeman poked in a rebound with 49 seconds left to cap a four-goal Maple Leaf comeback in a 5-4 victory over the Minnesota North Stars in Toronto last night. Wendel Clark's goal at 13 minutes 36 seconds of the third period had forged a 4-4 tie. Toronto, 2-10-1, ended a four-game losing streak. It was the Leafs' first game since Tom Watt was named head coach on a permanent basis Monday. Neal Broten had two goals for the North Stars, 2-7-4, who remained without a victory in seven road games. (AP) Blues 5, Red Wings 2: Brett Hull broke a second-period tie with his league-leading 15th goal as the St. Louis Blues extended their unbeaten streak to seven games with a victory over the Red Wings in Detroit. Dave Lowry added two goals for St. Louis (8-3-1), which posted its fourth straight victory while ending the Red Wings' (6-4-3) six-game home-ice winning streak. After Gerard Gallant tied the score at 2-2 midway through the second period, Hull, left unattended in front of the Detroit net, converted a centering pass from Rod Brind'Amour for his 11th goal in the last six games. (AP) Penguins 6, Flyers 2: Mark Recchi had a goal and three assists and Frank Pietrangelo stopped 33 shots for his fourth straight victory as the Flyers' losing streak reached four games. Pittsburgh (6-6-1) won its second straight game and third in its last four. The game marked the return of the Flyer right wing Tim Kerr, who played in his first game since his wife Kathy died Oct. 16 from complications of child birth. He missed the team's last six games. Kerr, who received a brief standing ovation on his first shift, was stopped by Pietrangelo on a pad save just outside the crease at 7:40 of the opening period. Philadelphia (6-6-0) outshot the Penguins, 24-10, through the first two periods, but Pietrangelo kept Pittsburgh in the game with numerous key saves. Kevin Stevens gave the Penguins a 1-0 lead when he took a cross-ice pass from league-leading scorer John Cullen, faked the goalie, Ken Wregget, and flicked a shot past Wregget's stick side at 5:49 of the first period. A minute later, Rob Brown took a pass from Bob Errey, who had two assists, from behind the net and fired a shot past Wregget in the slot at 6:49. Joe Mullen scored his 10th goal of the season and seventh on the power play for a 5-1 advantage when he pushed a shot over Wregget's stick side at 6:45 of the final period. (AP) TENNIS Sampras Struggles but Wins Pete Sampras struggled yesterday in winning his Paris Open debut over Carl-Uwe Steeb, 7-6, 3-6, 7-6. Sampras looked rusty in edging the German Davis Cup player in the second round of the $2 million tournament. Ninth-seeded Goran Ivanisevic also moved into the third round with a 6-2, 6-4 victory over Magnus Gustafssson. Mats Wilander made a quick exit, losing to Jakob Hlasek, 6-3, 6-2, in less than an hour. Hlasek next meets John McEnroe. (AP) Kelesi Upset by Provis: Nicole Provis defeated second-seeded Helen Kelesi in straight sets last night, becoming the fifth player to upset a seeded player in the first round of the $150,000 Virginia Slims of Nashville tournament. Provis, ranked 52d in the world, overpowered the hard-hitting Kelesi by drawing her to the net for a 7-6, 6-3 victory. Elise Burgin upset fourth-seeded Claudia Porwik, 6-4, 1-6, 6-4, and third-seeded Raffaella Reggi beat Amanda Coetzer, 6-4, 6-2. (AP) We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 31, 1990, on Page B00008 of the National edition with the headline: RESULTS PLUS.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »