Advertisement By GEORGE VECSEY Nobody wanted to give a football scholarship to Derek Dooley. Everybody wanted to give one to Terry Kirby. That they should wind up as teammates is a sign of the bizarre doings at Thomas Jefferson's school. But teammates they are: Dooley, a fifth-year receiver, too slow and too small to be recruited, and Kirby, a sophomore running back who would only attend a school that would allow him to be the Bo Jackson of autumn and winter. On Saturday, Dooley and Kirby and all their undefeated teammates will swarm onto the field against Georgia Tech as the top-rated college team in the country. In this delightful throwback town, where some males wear ties and some females wear dresses on Saturday night, and they actually go on what anthropologists call "dates," there has often been the proud claim of being No. 1. But not in the extracurricular activity of Derek Dooley and Terry Kirby. Advertisement Virginia has been listed at the very top of America's public universities, partly for its academic strength, partly for its favored site just below the Blue Ridge, partly for its reputation for good times, and partly for the beauty and history on Jefferson's campus. Advertisement "I was here 30 seconds and I said, 'This is where I am going to college,' " Dooley said. To walk on the Lawn, below the Rotunda Jefferson designed, is to make even the most content middle-aged visitor dream of somehow having it to do all over again. This rush of envy is tempered slightly when male and female inhabitants of the historic apartments scurry past in bathrobes, carrying toiletry kits. Jefferson did not have running water available in 1819, and besides, a short outdoor trek in midwinter builds the character that can sustain the school's honor code. The 54 apartments are awarded only to select achieving seniors who want to live in the past. Dooley said: "I love history but I also love living with advanced technology." The inhabitants of the Great Lawn tend to be an eclectic lot, whose doorways contain small notices of dance and literary troupes and even a color poster of Toto Schillaci, Italy's soccer star of last summer's World Cup. Orange-colored football mania is the dominant motif, however, and is about to produce the most intense Saturday afternoon in the history of the campus. Virginia has never been the kind of school to collectively dream of playing bowl games on national television in the first hours of the new year. Derek Dooley has observed that brand of football up close, as the son of Vince Dooley, whose Georgia Bulldogs were the unofficial national champions of 1980.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Dooley was a star receiver on an excellent high school team but he did not receive a scholarship offer. His parents advised him to play and study at Princeton, but, Dooley said: "I grew up around college football. There would have been a big void in my life if I didn't try it." Advertisement As a member of the scout team as a freshman, Dooley said he noticed "some people didn't mind losing. The freshmen have our own locker room, which was a good thing." "Everybody was more or less embarrassed at this attitude," he added. "We would talk among ourselves and say, 'It's not going to be like this when we're seniors.' "We respected the seniors as individuals, but not so much for their attitudes. We felt they felt football was not a big priority. For us, it was." That was changing. George Welsh had come in from the Naval Academy in 1982 and upgraded everything, from weight room to attitudes, to recruiting, without sacrificing standards, the school assures us. Dooley's parents paid over $20,000 in tuition and costs before he earned a scholarship. After three years of spot duty, he is the team's second-leading receiver, but he will be in law school next year, not the National Football League. Since Dooley enrolled, Virginia began attracting some of the best players in the country, including Terry Kirby, from Tabb High School near Hampton. "I'd been coming up since I was in the eighth grade, when they were going 2-9," Kirby said. "I know they graduate 90 percent of their athletes, and that's important to me because I know football and basketball are not going to be there all my life." Virginia let him play both sports as a freshman, and he gained 311 yards in football and averaged 3.4 points in 17 basketball games. This year he has gained 734 yards. Kirby dreams of being a renaissance man in professional football and basketball, simultaneously. Jefferson, the statesman who designed this school, might have understood. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 31, 1990, on Page B00009 of the National edition with the headline: SPORTS OF THE TIMES; New History Being Made At Virginia.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »