Advertisement By MURRAY CHASS In a game in which Dennis Eckersley was shell-shocked and Gary Ward was shaking, the Yankees registered their most remarkable victory of the season yesterday, a 7-6 decision over the Oakland Athletics. The Yankees, known throughout the season for their inability to win games in the late innings, erupted for five runs in the ninth inning, stunning the Athletics, the team with the most victories in the major leagues, and Eckersley, the relief pitcher with the most saves. ''I'm shell-shocked,'' Eckersley said minutes after an infield single by Rickey Henderson capped the eight-hit rally. ''It was quick. Bam bam. They just hit the heck out of the ball. They were awesome. I can't remember getting hit this hard for a long time. That ball Phelps hit, he crushed that ball.'' Key Hit for Phelps Ken Phelps struck the biggest blow of the inning, a three-run home run over the left-center field wall, but the single by Ward was just as critical and was achieved in a more difficult circumstance. He batted as a pinch-hitter with a two-strike count. Advertisement The Yankees began the ninth losing by 6-2. They had rallied for a run against Eckersley in the eighth inning, but Jose Canseco added to the Oakland lead with his 33d home run, a two-run shot off Scott Nielsen, in the ninth. Advertisement Claudell Washington and Don Mattingly were the first two batters in the Yankees' half of the ninth, and they singled. Then Phelps clouted the home run, his sixth in 53 times at bat with the Yankees, that slashed the Athletics' lead to 6-5. Concern for Double Play ''I wanted to make sure I stayed out of a double play,'' Phelps said. ''I wanted to hit the ball hard somewhere, score the run and hopefully keep things going. I've hit the ball hard against Eckersley, but I've never had any success with him.'' Eckersley entered the game with 35 saves in 40 save opportunities. He had also allowed only 12 earned runs in 56Z innings, meaning he gave up only one shy of half that total in one inning yesterday. ''Maybe I should have taken time to pause,'' the right-hander said. ''I like to work fast. That stuff is contagious. Maybe I threw too many strikes. All I know is I got my butt kicked.''  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. When Dave Winfield followed Phelps's home run with his third successive single, Manager Tony LaRussa changed pitchers, bringing in Greg Cadaret, a left-hander, to pitch to the left-hand-hitting Mike Pagliarulo. ''The decision was to bunt with Pagliarulo or send Ward up to hit,'' Piniella said. The initial decision was Pagliarulo and the bunt, but after he got two strikes, Piniella switched to Ward, who had been 2 for 12 as a pinch-hitter this season, and those were times he had no strikes against him. 'I Was Shaking' ''If I was the manager, I wouldn't have sent myself up, not the way I've been pinch-hitting,'' said Ward, a usually taciturn player who was almost bubbling with elation. ''And with two strikes, that's one shot, not three. I've never done that before. I told myself, anything looks close, I got to swing. I was shaking. I didn't even think I'd be able to control the bat because I was shaking so much.'' Ward took the first pitch for a ball, then fouled off the next two pitches. The fourth pitch he lined to right-center for a single that sent Winfield scampering to third. Advertisement Gene Nelson, who had not allowed the Yankees a run in 19 innings as a two-year member of the Athletics, replaced Cadaret, and Winfield scored the tying run as Don Slaught grounded into a double play. The Yankees, though, were not finished scoring. Luis Aguayo and Rafael Santana stroked singles, putting runners at first and third, and Henderson ended the game by rapping a grounder off the glove of Tony Phillips, the third baseman, for an infield single. ''This was a good come-from-behind win,'' Piniella said. ''It's the best win we've had all year.''  LONG WAIT The victory gave the Yankees two consecutive victories for the first time since Aug. 6-7, both of these coming in the ninth inning. It also gave them a 2-42 record in games they trailed after the seventh inning. They got their first victory of that kind last Friday. . . . John Candelaria gave up three runs in one and one-third innings, leaving in the second inning because his right knee was ailing. Nielsen gave up three runs in seven and one-third innings of relief. . . . Terry Steinbach drove in three runs for Oakland with a single and a double. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 25, 1988, on Page D00023 of the National edition with the headline: Yankees Win on 5 In Ninth.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »