Advertisement By ROB HUGHESMAY 12, 2014
 LONDON —  England’s marathon season is over, but the Spanish league limps on and on. For the second straight weekend, all three teams at the top of La Liga failed to win. Giants can be made to look Lilliputian when opponents sense they are tired, tense and distracted. Real Madrid left Cristiano Ronaldo, Gareth Bale, Karim Benzema and other regulars out of its starting lineup Sunday, and the subsequent 2-0 loss at Celta Vigo meant it surrendered any remaining hope in winning the domestic title. Real’s coach, Carlo Ancelotti, scarcely hid the reason why. “We have to look forward,” he told reporters at the Balaídos stadium late Sunday night. “We have a great chance to make a dream come true for Real Madrid.” That dream lies beyond Spanish soil, though not very far away, because on May 24, Madrid will fight Madrid for the Champions League trophy in Lisbon. Advertisement Ancelotti admits that the intensity of his players dropped, once they knew they were in the Champions League final and had a chance to be Europe’s champion for a 10th time, a record that would put Real in a class of its own. Advertisement But — and it is a mighty but — the neighbor just three miles away, Atlético Madrid, is still clinging to its own double ambition. Atlético doesn’t have the wealth of Real or Barcelona, the other team at the top. Atlético does have the very thing that Ancelotti admits Real has forsaken — sheer intensity. All season long, both in Spain and abroad, Coach Diego Simeone has driven Atlético on, with the club often being much more than the sum of its parts. To be sure, age and extreme efforts and injuries are eating into Atlético. The absence of the team’s top striker, Diego Costa, because of a strained hamstring was a severe blow to the club, as was the fact that Arda Turan clearly was not running at full speed after his injury. So, Atlético was ground down to a 1-1 tie against Málaga on Sunday, even though it was playing in its in its cacophonous Vicente Calderón stadium in Madrid. After going a goal down, Atlético picked its weary bones off the floor. It came back with a typical set-piece goal, headed in by Toby Alderweireld, a reserve defender who had been at fault in the opening goal. Roared on by a 58,000-strong home crowd that is living dreams not known in decades, and cajoled on and screamed at by Simeone on the sideline, Atlético threw everything at Málaga. One man, a countryman of the Argentine Simeone, defied that onslaught. Right arm or left, flying save in the top corner or low smothering dive at the feet of the forwards, Willy Caballero simply refused to be beaten a second time in Málaga’s goal. How this keeper is not going to the World Cup with Argentina, only the national coach can know. Add those heroics to the fact that David Villa, the all-time leading scorer for Spain’s national team, snatched at and missed game-winning chances, and you understand why Atlético was held, 1-1. Villa is not what he once was. He is not Diego Costa, and Atlético is, not yet, the champion of Spain. Advertisement But it is what Simeone describes as two finals away from the impossible double. On Saturday, Atlético needs only to draw against Barcelona in the Camp Nou to win La Liga. The following Saturday, the two Madrid clubs face off in the Champions League final.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Barça is looking as weary as any side in La Liga. Its coach, Gerardo Martino, knows that his position has already been offered to Luís Enrique, a man steeped in the Barcelona way of playing and currently managing Celta Vigo. Martino, who was parachuted into Barça when the coach Tito Vilanova fell terminally ill last year, might yet return home to Argentina with a Spanish league winner’s medal in his luggage. Like most people, he thought the league title was gone when the team failed to win after Vilanova finally lost his fight for life two weeks ago. Barcelona got another chance after Real cooled off and Atlético relapsed, too. But the team, again, is emotionally and physically tired. Try though Lionel Messi, Andrés Iniesta and others did at Elche on Sunday, it found no way past the defenses of a team that needed one point to ensure its own safety in La Liga for next season. Iniesta rattled the crossbar with a volley. Messi and Alexis had personal duels with Elche’s goalkeeper, Manu Herrera. But the keeper, like Caballero against Atletico, defied the expected defeat unto the end. It finished scoreless in Elche. So a season of 38 league games for each team boils down to Barça versus Atlético, in front of 98,000 Catalans, this coming Saturday. Atlético is not Real. It will hold nothing back, and Coach Simeone will be a stride away from the field, exhorting until he has no voice, for one last mighty heave by his unfancied team. Who will win? On paper, based on individual names and reputations, and with its own crowd behind it, you would think the title is Barcelona’s to retain. Advertisement Yet the teams have met five times in three competitions this season — the league, the Spanish Super Cup and the Champions League. Not once has Barça come out on top, and the La Liga meeting at Vicente Calderon ended with neither side scoring a goal. If that happens again this weekend, if the contest is tied with any number of goals, Atlético is the new champion. Barça can boast the best goal difference in the league, but it counts for nothing in Spain. If Barcelona wins the last match, it will be equal on points with Atlético — and awarded the title on the basis of the head-to-head results. The Spanish league and the Champions League is down to two games. The nation then expects the players to defend the World Cup in Brazil. A version of this article appears in print on May 13, 2014, in The International New York Times.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »