Advertisement By JOSEPH SIANO Bill Elliott, who came as close to dominating stock-car racing as is possible, is -- in a career sense -- about to restart from the middle of the pack. As Elliott prepares to compete in a 500-mile race today in Dover, Del. (TNN, noon), he is considering a number of choices for next year, including driving for another team. His family-run team, which includes his brothers Ernie and Dan and is based in Dawsonville, Ga., is losing its main sponsor after this season and has undergone other turmoil in the last year. Mike Beam, brought in as crew chief on Nov. 30, 1989, left for Junior Johnson's two-car team this season. Dan Elliott, who used to be one of the tire changers in a crack pit crew, decided to stay home on race weekends to spend more time with his family. And in the season-ending race last November in Atlanta, Mike Rich, a member of Elliott's crew, was killed when he was hit by another car during a pit stop. Caught in the Grind Whenever that many things happen within a racing team, Elliott said last week, "It's like gears in a transmission; things don't start meshing just right." Advertisement The idea of Bill Elliott's driving for anyone but his family's team would have seemed unthinkable in 1985, when he won a record 11 superspeedway events on the Winston Cup tour and $2,433,187, also a single-season mark. In 1988, he followed that up with his first Winston Cup title. Advertisement But the problems began soon after. Practicing for the season-opening Daytona 500 in 1989, Elliott crashed and broke an arm. Although he came back that year to win three races, the season was essentially shot. Inconsistency in Shop  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. When Beam came on to run things in 1990, there was a natural period of adjustment. Elliott closed well last season to finish fourth in the final point standing, but was never a real title contender. "It's hard to maintain consistency on the race track when you're inconsistent in the shop," he said. Now, the strongest rumor has Elliott driving the Junior Johnson car that Geoff Bodine will vacate after this season. Elliott, speaking over the telephone last week, wouldn't say anything about that. "I really haven't made up a good decision of what I'm going to do yet," he said. "I've got several options in the works, none I can really discuss at the moment." Whether he can remain with his brothers next season depends on finding a new sponsor, he said. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 15, 1991, on Page 8008004 of the National edition with the headline: AUTO RACING; Elliott, Amid Turmoil, Considers His Choices.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »