In Low-Profile Stunner, Blues Trade Erik Johnson If the N.B.A. had an in-season trade in which a recent first overall draft pick was dealt for two standout young players, it would be analyzed for weeks. The N.H.L. is a lot more understated. Very early Saturday morning – so early that even many of the Web sites were napping – the Blues traded the 2006 first overall selection, Erik Johnson, along with Jay McClement, to Colorado for Chris Stewart and Kevin Shattenkirk. To add to the wow factor, and make the trade even more difficult to break down, Colorado will receive the Blues’ first-round pick in June (as long as it is not in the top 10) and St. Louis gets the second-round selection of the Avalanche. McClement has been a steady checking forward for the Blues for the last five seasons, but this deal – yes, it is a blockbuster to hockey folk – is essentially Johnson for Stewart and Shattenkirk. St. Louis drafted Johnson first over all five years ago, envisioning the 6-5 defenseman as the cornerstone of a contending team. (Jordan Staal, Jonathan Toews, Nicklas Backstrom and Phil Kessel were chosen with the next four picks.) He missed the 2008-9 season when he wrecked his knee failing to put the brakes on a golf cart at a charity outing before training camp. Despite the setback in his development, Johnson made Team USA for the Olympics last February.
 Adrian Dater summed upÂ Colorado’s motivation for the trade in The Denver Post: Johnson’s acquisition is the centerpiece of Rebuild 2.0. While management became enamored of having a quick-skating team that could move the puck, the team’s defense became porous and too easy to play against, partially from a lack of size. So, adding a player such as Johnson was too good to pass up, despite a career so far that has drawn some criticism for not being up to the level of what a first overall pick should be. In his first year of pro hockey after three at Boston University, Shattenkirk surprised scoutsÂ by making aÂ quick adjustment to the N.H.L. with his puck-carrying skills. He had 7 goals and 26 points in 46 games with the Avalanche. His production will help offset the departure of John, and the Blues have the 2008 fourth overall pick, Alex Pietrangelo, as the team’s new No. 1 defenseman of the future. Stewart has even more upside. A 6-foot-2, 235-pound right wing, he scored 28 goals last season and had a strong start this season before breaking his hand in a fight. StewartÂ scored only two goals over the last month for Colorado, but scored two in his St. Louis debut, a 9-3 victory over Anaheim on Saturday. The Blues’ president, John Davidson,Â told Jeremy Rutherford of The St. Louis Post-Dispatch thatÂ his team traded from a position of strength to fill a need at power forward. “When you get into that position, you go, ‘Is there somebody out there we can get and really enhance a different need on our club, knowing that we can get something without killing us back there?'” Davidson said. “You look at needs, and we need a power forward and scoring. We’ll see where it goes. There are no guarantees.” In an era when the majority of trades in the N.H.L. are driven by the salary cap as much as performance and potential, and 10 days before a trade deadline likely to be headlined by the “rental” acquisitions of a veteran for draft picks, the Blues and the Avalanche came together on an actual hockey trade – one with big risks for both clubs. Colorado gave up a pair of young players who are good and could become very good. The Blues dealt a defenseman with franchise potential, and Davidson knows it. “This isn’t an indictment on anybody,” he told Rutherford. “It’s the nature of pro sports, movement among players. We’re working at this. Erik was a very important part of the Blues reconnecting with this city. Since he has been here, this building has gotten full. We have a responsibility as an organization to make St. Louis a better place and Erik was a large part of that. We had to improve our team with a deal like this. But it’s not a knock on anybody.” Flames and League Coffers Are Victors in Heritage Classic Rene Bourque scored two goals and Mikka Kiprusoff made 37 saves as the Flames shut out the Montreal Canadiens, 4-0, in the Heritage Classic on Sunday before a crowd of 41,022 at McMahon Stadium in Calgary. The moderate hype around the event did notÂ cause the surging Flames to lose their edge. After a poor first half of the season that cost General Manager Darryl Sutter his job, Calgary is 11-1-2 in its last 14 games. The timing of the Heritage Classic meant both teams had more at stake in the battle for playoff berths in their respective conferences. Urged by Coach Brent Sutter to “enjoy the moment” and keep the play simple, the Flames outshot the Canadiens, 19-8, in the first period and took a 1-0 lead. When Montreal did muster some offense, Kiprusoff was sharp throughout. (The sun was not a problem at ice level when the game started at 4:15 local time). Off the ice, the Heritage Classic was another financial bonanza for the N.H.L. The league reported that advertising revenue for the game in Calgary surpassed the New Year’s Day game at Heinz Field in Pittsburgh between the Penguins and the Washington Capitals. The columnist Damien Cox of The Toronto Star offered this take: Just as had previously been the case in Buffalo, Pittsburgh, Boston, Chicago and Edmonton, hockey customers in Calgary gratefully lapped this stuff up despite the fact a $130 ticket bought a seat 50 yards beyond the nearest crease from which you might see the helmets of a few players, something along the lines of watching a swim meet while underwater. The N.H.L. being the N.H.L., more is always considered to be better (think expansion), so it appears the Bettman administration is going to sell this outdoor idea and sell it some more until some city, someday, turns up its nose. Goal of the Weekend: From 195 feet Coaches tell their players all the time: “Put the puck on net.” That’s what the Denver University freshman David Makowski did in one of the most incredible goals in recent history at any level of the sport. After Denver won a face-off in its own zone, Makowski sailed a wrist shot toward the Michigan Tech net. Goalie Kevin Genoe misplayed the puck – perhaps he lost it in the lights – andÂ the PioneersÂ had a short-handed goal and 3-1 lead on their way to a 5-1 victory.
 Christopher Botta is a senior N.H.L. writer at FanHouse and the managing editor of the blog Islanders Point Blank. Slap Shot, the New York Times hockey blog, reports on the Rangers, the National Hockey League and anything that glides quickly across a frozen surface anywhere on the globe, from the snowy prairies of Saskatchewan to the frigid steppes of Russia and beyond, like, say, Phoenix.
 
			Thank you for visiting Slap Shot. This blog’s regular features, including live game analysis, reader discussion, news and notes from Jeff Z. Klein and others, can now be found on the Hockey section front.Read more… 
			With the 65th overall pick, the Rangers chose Adam Tambellini, a 6-foot-2 center whose father and brother each played for the Islanders. Read more… 
			The Devils took Anthony Brodeur, an 18-year-old goalie, with the 208th pick of the 211-pick draft, sending their seventh-round pick in 2015 to the Kings in exchange for the chance to pick Brodeur. Read more… 
			The Islanders sent Nino Niederreiter to Minnesota for Cal Clutterbuck, and took defenseman Ryan Pulock with the 15th over all pick in Sunday’s N.H.L. draft.Read more… 
			The Rangers announced Friday that they would not use their remaining compliance buyout this summer, ensuring that Brad Richards will return to the team for at least one more season.Read more… Follow Advertisement