Advertisement  HOCKEY Soviet Union Is Out Brent Sutter's goal with 5:18 left in a Canada Cup game last night gave the Canadians a 3-3 tie with the Soviets (1-3-1), which was already eliminated from the medal round by virtue of Sweden's 5-2 victory over Czechoslovakia. Canada (3-0-2), playing in Quebec, finished with 8 points. The United States was a 4-3 winner over Finland, which also advanced. The Americans finished 4-1-0 for 8 points, but Canada finished first because it had earlier defeated the United States. TENNIS Bruguera Advances Top-seeded Sergi Bruguera of Spain eased into the second round of the Geneva Open yesterday with a 6-3, 6-2 victory over unseeded Bart Wuyts of Belgium. Bruguera, ranked No. 9 in the world, won his opening match in 1 hour 3 minutes. In other matches, third-seeded Goran Prpic of Yugoslavia overcame Gilad Bloom of Israel, 4-6, 6-4, 6-4, and eighth-seeded Omar Camporese of Italy was upset by Carsten Arriens of Germany, 6-3, 6-4. (AP) Leconte Loses: Henri Leconte of France, playing his first match since undergoing an operation on his back, lost in the opening round of the Bordeaux Open in France. Leconte fell to a qualifier, Tarik Benhabiles of France, 3-6, 6-2, 7-5. (AP) GYMNASTICS Soviet Union Leads At the world championships in Indianapolis yesterday, the Soviet Union led the women's team scoring after completion of the compulsories with 197.371 points. The United States, with what appears to be its best team since the Mary Lou Retton-led Olympic squad of 1984, was second going into today's optionals with 196.208. Romania was third with 195.795. China was fourth with 195.270. Competition in the men's optionals began later yesterday. The Soviet Union held a comfortable lead after compulsories. The United States team was in fifth place and without its top athlete, Lance Ringnald, who separated his right shoulder Sunday and had to withdraw from the championships. (AP) HORSE RACING World Record on Grass Known Ranger, a 5-year-old gelding from England, matched the world record for running a mile on the grass yesterday at Belmont Park when the horse won the Snow Knight Handicap in 1:322/5 and came within one-fifth of a second of matching Dr. Fager's world record set on the dirt 23 years ago. The gelding, owned by Claiborne Farm and trained by Bill Badgett Jr., was ridden by Julie Krone over the Widener turf course, which was officially labeled "fast." Known Ranger won by two lengths over the favorite Fourstardave, who had four lengths on Sifting Gold. The winner, who paid $6.40 for $2 to win, carried 113 pounds, 11 fewer than Fourstardave but 1 more than Expensive Decision carried on Oct. 8 when he set the world record for a mile on the grass at Belmont. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 10, 1991, on Page B00009 of the National edition with the headline: RESULTS PLUS.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »