Advertisement  AP Luc Robitaille scored twice as the Los Angeles Kings rallied for four third-period goals tonight to beat the Calgary Flames, 5-3, in the opener of their Smythe Division playoff series. Calgary led, 3-1, early in the third period before the Kings, playing without Wayne Gretzky, scored three goals in just over six minutes. Todd Elik and Tony Granato both scored on power plays and Steve Kasper added an empty-net goal as Los Angeles took a 1-0 lead over the defending Stanley Cup champions in the four-of-seven series. Gretzky, receiving treatments in Los Angeles for a back injury, missed his first playoff game in 10 years. Advertisement The Kings were leading, 1-0, when Mike Krushelnyski threw his stick in an attempt to block a shot by Al MacInnis with 3 minutes 8 seconds left in the first period. Referee Kerry Fraser called for the penalty shot, the 20th in Stanley Cup history and the first for a Flame. MacInnis broke in, waited for Kelly Hrudey to go down, then shot the puck over him. Advertisement Jets 7, Oilers 5 EDMONTON, Alberta (AP) - Pat Elynuik's goal early in the third period broke a 4-4 tie as Winnipeg recorded its first playoff victory ever at the Northlands Coliseum.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The victory, only the Jets' second in six playoff series with the Oilers, gave Winnipeg a 1-0 lead in their Smythe Division semifinal series. North Stars 2, Blackhawks 1 CHICAGO (AP) - Brian Bellows scored two goals and Jon Casey stopped 30 shots as Minnesota won the Norris Division semifinal opener. Bellows scored his first goal on a power play in the first period and then broke a tie early in the third period with the game-winner. So adept were the North Stars that Chicago was unable to pull its goalie until 6 seconds remained. Blues 4, Maple Leafs 2 ST. LOUIS (AP) - Ron Wilson, who had only three goals in the regular season, scored twice and Jeff Brown had a goal and two assists as St. Louis won in the Norris Division semifinal. Brett Hull, the league scoring champion, also scored for the Blues, who lost seven of eight games to Toronto during the regular season. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 5, 1990, on Page D00026 of the National edition with the headline: Kings Rally to Beat Flames In Opener of Playoffs, 5-3.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »