Advertisement By PETER KERASOTISMARCH 16, 2014
 TAMPA, Fla. —  It is only two starts, and it is only spring training, but like a developing piece of film, a clearer image of Masahiro Tanaka is emerging, and it continues to dazzle. Tanaka faced a mostly major league lineup in his start on Sunday against the Atlanta Braves and encountered few problems through four and a third innings, striking out six while allowing one run and three hits in a 7-4 Yankees win. It was not just that Tanaka got outs with seeming ease, but also that he continued to get swing-and-miss strikes against established major league hitters. “That’s what I like to see,” catcher Brian McCann said. “When you have swing-and-miss stuff and you can attack the zone with four pitches, it’s special. There aren’t many guys who can get their pitches to move like that.” Advertisement McCann was held back at the last minute from heading to Panama with a Yankees split-squad team that played two weekend games against the Miami Marlins, mostly so he could work with Tanaka, whom the Yankees signed in the off-season to a seven-year, $155 million contract. It was also a chance for McCann to play against the Braves, his former team, whom he left in the off-season via free agency. Advertisement “I was really excited coming to the park and seeing a lot of guys I spent a lot of years with,” he said. But the guy he saw from behind the plate is what he — and the Yankees — is most excited about. Tanaka went 24-0 with a 1.27 earned run average last year in Japan, pitching for the Rakuten Golden Eagles. It was impressive, but would it translate to the major leagues? So far, in his two starts and three outings this spring, Tanaka has pitched nine and a third innings, yielding seven hits, two earned runs and two walks. He has struck out 10. Against the Braves, he faced a lineup that included both Upton brothers — B. J. and Justin — Jason Heyward, Freddie Freeman, Dan Uggla, Andrelton Simmons and Ryan Doumit. Only the prospect Tommy La Stella did any damage, hitting a run-scoring double off the left-field wall in the fourth inning. Other than that, Tanaka gave up only two singles, one a bunt. “I wanted to keep the number of pitches a little lower,” said Tanaka, who threw 74, which is a bit high for less than five innings. “But the result of just giving up one run, I’m satisfied with that.” High pitch counts are usually the residue of high strikeout tallies, which Tanaka is getting even though his top velocity continues to hover in the low-90-mile-per-hour range. “He gets outs on every pitch he has,” McCann said. “He’s really good at setting up hitters. He knows what he’s doing out there.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. When reminded that Tanaka is coming from another country and is only 25 and already showing such mound savvy, McCann nodded his head. “It beyond surprises me,” he said. “But it shows you the experience he has. To be only 25 years old and understand how to maneuver through a lineup is really impressive.” Advertisement Tanaka is next scheduled to pitch Saturday against the Minnesota Twins, and the Yankees expect more of the same. “He’s handled everything with ease, as if he’s done it before,” General Manager Brian Cashman said. “It feels like he’s always been a part of this team and this organization. The transition has been transitionless.” The only negative for the Yankees on Sunday was that center fielder Jacoby Ellsbury, signed in the off-season to a seven-year, $153 million contract, was scratched before the game with tightness in his right calf. He will also sit out Monday’s game against the Pittsburgh Pirates in Bradenton, Fla. That puts Ellsbury in line to play again Tuesday, which happens to be when the Yankees host his former team, the Boston Red Sox. “I really haven’t thought about it,” Ellsbury said. He added that had Sunday’s game against the Braves been a regular-season game, the tightness he felt in his calf would not have prevented him from playing. “He wanted to play and he could’ve played, except we wanted to make sure we knock this thing out before anything serious happened,” said the third-base coach Rob Thomson, who is filling in for Joe Girardi as the manager while Girardi and the rest of the team are in Panama. INSIDE PITCH The left-hander Manny Banuelos, who returned this spring from Tommy John elbow surgery, was optioned to Class A Tampa. In two spring outings, Banuelos allowed four hits, seven runs, three walks and a home run. ... Shortstop Brendan Ryan, slowed this spring with a sore lower back, hit off a tee and took grounders Sunday. He had been swinging a broomstick. Rob Thomson said Ryan was close to playing in a spring game. ... Russ Canzler, who is nursing a sore left hip, has improved but still has not taken part in any on-field work. ... Ichiro Suzuki collected two solid hits, one of them a double, while also drawing a walk in four plate appearances. A version of this article appears in print on March 17, 2014, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: In Two Starts, Tanaka Has Made It Look Easy.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »