Advertisement By MICHAEL MARTINEZ and  Good news apparently wasn't enough to carry the Toronto Blue Jays tonight. Buoyed by the loss of the second-place Boston Red Sox earlier in the evening, the Blue Jays still fell flat, losing to the California Angels, 10-9, but holding their game-and-a-half lead in the American League East. The Blue Jays, 4-8 in a 23-game stretch against American League West teams, struggled to come from behind after starter Tom Candiotti gave up seven runs to the Angels in the first inning. Candy Maldonado drove in four runs with a homer and a double, and Toronto closed to 9-8 by the fourth, but the Angels held on with one run in the fifth. Lee Stevens and Max Venable each drove in three for California. Scott Lewis, who replaced Angels starter Chuck Finley in the fourth, was the winning pitcher to go 3-5. Advertisement The two teams combined for 26 hits. Unsightly Hitting Circus What should have been an enticing pitching matchup -- Candiotti, the league's earned run average leader, against Finley, one of the Angels' three 17-game winners -- disintegrated into an unsightly hitting circus in which neither starter lasted beyond the fourth inning. Advertisement Candiotti's night was especially short. He retired the first two batters of the game routinely and then began pitching batting practice. The Angels loaded the bases on two hits and a walk, got a three-run triple from Venable and added a double by Ron Tingley for two more. Candiotti left with the bases loaded, but his replacement, Dave Weathers, served up a two-run single to Dave Gallagher. Candiotti's E.R.A. Blasted By the time he was done, Candiotti's e.r.a. had grown from 2.23 to 2.50, dropping him behind Roger Clemens of Boston (2.43) for the league lead.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Candiotti's difficulties may have been caused by an abscess in his tooth that required three injections of novocaine to reduce the pain, the last one coming just before the start of the game. But even with a 7-0 lead and Candiotti gone, Finley simply could not pitch effectively. He surrendered a two-run homer to Maldonado in the second and a two-run double to Maldonado in the third. California scored twice in the bottom of the third, but Finley gave up doubles to Manuel Lee and Roberto Alomar for one run in the fourth, then walked Joe Carter and was pulled by Manager Buck Rodgers. As he reached the dugout, Finley yanked off his cap and tossed it into the seats. He was done, but Toronto was not. With Lewis on the mound, the Blue Jays scored one run when Tingley, the Angel catcher, threw the ball into right field on a steal of third by Alomar, who came home. Kelly Gruber followed with a two-run home run, his 20th of the season, and the score was 9-8. California tagged on another run in the fifth, this one off Bob MacDonald, on a double by Stevens, but Toronto got it back in the seventh when Dave Parker, released earlier this month by the Angels, led off with a double, took third on a ground out and scored on a sacrifice fly by John Olerud to make the score 10-9. Henke Out of Series The Blue Jays began the series knowing that Tom Henke, their best reliever with 32 saves, was unavailable. Henke, bothered by tendinitis in his right rotator cuff and bicep, received a shot of cortisone earlier today and is not expected to pitch again until Friday when Toronto returns home. Even then, Henke said, there was no guarantee that he would be 100 percent. "I hate to get my hopes up too high," he said before the game. "I'm not going to hurt the team's chances of winning. If I can't pitch, I won't go out there." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 24, 1991, on Page B00010 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Blue Jays Try Chasing Angels After 7-0 Deficit, but Lose, 10-9.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »