Advertisement By ZACH SCHONBRUNMAY 25, 2014
 BALTIMORE —  Duke needed eight playmakers, six goal scorers, five key defensemen and two goalies to beat Denver on Saturday and advance to the N.C.A.A. men’s lacrosse title game for a third time in five seasons. But against Notre Dame on Monday, the Blue Devils’ depth may be a moot point if they cannot get shots past Conor Kelly’s hot hand in net. With 37 saves in his past three games, Kelly has stepped up at the right time for the Fighting Irish, who used his brilliance to stifle Maryland, 11-6, on Saturday at M&T Stadium. The game was only Kelly’s seventh since he took over as the full-time starter after splitting time with Shane Doss early in the season. Notre Dame Coach Kevin Corrigan said Kelly had come into his own, a transformation the coaching staff began to see during the season. Advertisement “He’s been coming to that,” Corrigan said. “You guys see it as a snapshot, but I see it as an evolution over the course of weeks and months. We’ve seen Conor have some ups and downs this year, but there’s a reason why he’s back in goal for us right now.” Advertisement Kelly, a junior who had played in only one game before this season, said dealing with the uncertainty at the beginning of the season required a mental adjustment. Since taking over in net, he has made physical adjustments that have paid dividends, too. “I’m playing my angles better,” Kelly said, “and putting myself before the shot in better positions that give me the best chance of saving it.” When Notre Dame played Duke on April 5, Kelly entered midway through the game, with the Fighting Irish trailing by 6-2. He made seven saves but let up nine goals in a 15-7 loss, and it was not until several weeks later that he earned the starting spot for good.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. While his late emergence represents a major change for Notre Dame since that matchup, Duke has remained relatively static — the same offensive juggernaut, with a host of talented scoring options and seemingly unparalleled depth. The Blue Devils played Denver without their second-leading scorer, the injured Josh Dionne, but it hardly mattered; they scored 15 goals on 38 shots, committing just six turnovers. “The way we look at it is, there’s six offensive players,” the senior Christian Walsh said. “We have designated attack and midfield positions, but in our offense, everybody can play every position.” He added, “That’s kind of what our offense is about: sharing the ball, playing unselfish, and everybody can play every position.” A factor in Maryland’s struggles against the Irish’s defense was the team’s inability to get shots low on Kelly, who made most of his saves at eye level. If Notre Dame can make that happen against Duke, the Irish could neutralize the Blue Devils’ many weapons. “Hopefully, we can give C. K. shots that he likes to see,” Notre Dame defenseman Stephen O’Hara said, “and he can eat them up.” A version of this article appears in print on May 26, 2014, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: Notre Dame’s Goalie Emerges as Possible Answer to Duke’s Versatile Offense.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »