Advertisement By ANDREW KEHMARCH 17, 2014
 Life these days without Kevin Garnett has seemed remarkably easy for the Nets and their fans to tolerate. It has been an unexpected but hugely welcome surprise because he may not be returning any time soon. Coach Jason Kidd revealed Monday night that Garnett, who had missed the previous eight games because of back spasms, would be sidelined at least through Saturday. Then the Nets went out and ran over the Phoenix Suns, 108-95, at Barclays Center, improving their record during Garnett’s absence to 7-2. No one would dispute Garnett’s value to the team, but his teammates have put on an impressive show of depth. “He’s our anchor defensively,” said Deron Williams, who played a superb game, scoring 28 points while shooting 11 for 13. “He’s the loudest. He’s the most vocal. We definitely miss his leadership, his presence, out there on the floor.” Advertisement The Nets hardly showed it while improving to 34-31. They shot 58.6 percent and never trailed, and all five starters scored in double digits. Williams looked particularly nimble. He turned several Suns defenders the wrong way with nasty crossover dribbles. And midway through the fourth quarter, he led the Nets on a fast break, elected to take it all the way himself and elevated for a dunk — his first one this year — over Ish Smith. The Nets stretched their home winning streak to nine games, the team’s longest at Barclays Center. The victories continued to lift the mood in the locker room. Several Nets made jokes about whether Williams’s dunk was legitimate. Kidd joked that he would have to review the videotape. “A coach is supposed to have your back,” Williams said, laughing. “I can’t do nothing but shake my head.” He added about Kidd, “He was never a dunker in his day.” Levity aside, it was a symbolic and encouraging moment for Williams, who had much of his explosiveness stripped by injuries to his ankles earlier this year. He added four assists and three steals and was constantly attacking the basket. Advertisement “When he’s playing like this, it’s fun to watch,” Kidd said. The happy vibes around the team have helped alleviate any worry about Garnett. The Nets host the Charlotte Bobcats on Wednesday and the Boston Celtics on Friday before flying out Saturday night to begin a three-game trip. The Nets will visit three cities in four days. It is conceivable that Garnett will stay home, allowing him a few more days to recuperate. Specifics about Garnett’s injury have been hard to come by. He has not addressed the news media since the Nets lost to the Portland Trail Blazers on Feb. 26. Garnett’s last game was the next night, in Denver against the Nuggets. After an initial five-game layoff, Garnett was penciled into the lineup March 10. But he was scratched just before that game after tightening up during warm-ups.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Garnett, until Monday night, had essentially been listed as “day-to-day,” and Kidd has persistently denied suggestions that Garnett had had any setbacks. Kidd’s message changed within a few hours Monday. At the team’s morning workout, Kidd said that Garnett was “feeling better, so we’ll see how he feels tomorrow.”  An hour and a half before the game, Kidd shifted gears. “We felt that we could hold him out until Saturday and then re-evaluate him before we leave for Dallas,” he said. The Nets went 1-6 in the previous seven games Garnett had missed this season. But Kidd said the Nets had been able to cope during this latest stretch because players had done a better job embracing their expanding roles. Crucial to this effort has been Mason Plumlee, a 24-year-old rookie from Duke, who has been starting at center during Garnett’s absence. His growth during this time has seemed like an ancillary benefit of Garnett’s injury. Plumlee said it was most beneficial to be playing meaningful minutes. “It’s not like earlier in the season, where we’re down 20, here’s 10 minutes,” Plumlee said. “They’ve been crucial minutes in big games.” Halfway through the first quarter Monday, Plumlee swooped to the rim past his brother Miles, a center, and finished a two-handed dunk. Inside the final minute of the first half, he crammed in an alley-oop pass from Marcus Thornton. Plumlee finished with 14 points and 11 rebounds. “It’s almost a blessing for him to get the playing time right now, because come playoff time we’re going to need him,” Williams said. Advertisement Williams’s own sense of timing has been fortunate, too. After a frustrating first half to the season, Williams is looking spry and confident. It has helped to make Garnett’s absence easier to take. A version of this article appears in print on March 18, 2014, on Page B14 of the New York edition with the headline: Nets Miss Garnett but Keep Winning Without Him.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »