Advertisement By JOE LAPOINTE and  While the National Hockey League prepares for its 75th season with several storm clouds on its wide horizons, the Islanders opened their 20th training camp today under their localized version of threatening skies. The leaguewide problems include a possible players strike, an embarrassing lack of a United States television contract and the reluctance of the league's top draft choice, 18-year-old Eric Lindros, to sign with the the Quebec Nordiques, the team that selected him. The Islanders' troubles include a weathered for-sale sign on the front lawn, a possible boycott by their best player and a plunging number of season-ticket holders. Although many of these issues were on many minds here today, none interfered with the official program, which called for rookies to report to the Marriott hotel across the parking lot from Nassau Coliseum. There, they underwent physical examinations and will transfer Thursday to Lansingburg, N.Y., for training camp. Advertisement The veterans -- those not playing in the Canada Cup tournament -- will report for physicals on Friday and will travel to Lansingburg for the first day of scrimmages on Saturday. Al Arbour, who is back as coach for the third full year of his second full term, admitted that it was awkward to work under the uncertain circumstances surrounding the franchise. 'Nothing We Can Do' Advertisement "But there is nothing we can do about these things, so you try to keep things on a positive note and get prepared," he said. "Let these things take care of themselves. Eventually, this is going to be settled. We know we're getting a new owner." If Arbour coaches all 80 games in the regular season, he will surpass the league record of 1,437 games set by Dick Irvin of Montreal.Why is Arbour, who will be 59 years old on Nov. 1, returning for another year on a job he doesn't really need? "We've had a lot of good times here," said the coach who led the team to four consecutive Stanley Cup championships from 1980 through 1983. "We'll gut it out through the hard times." Missing from the rookie arrivals was Scott LaChance, the team's first draft choice last June, who is playing for the United States Olympic team. Veterans who aren't expected Friday include Pat LaFontaine, Brent Sutter, Randy Wood and Jeff Norton. All are playing in the Canada Cup tournament. Sutter is playing for Canada; the rest are playing for the United States.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. LaFontaine, who has been offended by management's unwillingness to renegotiate his contract, has said he would not report unless the team is sold by the owner, John O. Pickett. Although Pickett put the club up for sale last winter, no buyer has yet been announced. "The process is proceeding," said Louis Susman of Salomon Brothers, who is brokering the sale for Pickett. Asked if his firm's recent legal problems might affect the sale of the Islanders, Susman replied: "Of course not." Who Needs Tickets? As for season tickets, the totals are down, as might be expected for a team that finished in last place for the second time in three seasons and did little to improve itself over the off-season. Jim Johnson, director of sales for the team, said full and partial season ticket plans this season will probably total "about 7,000," down from "about 9,000" last season. Advertisement Despite the low number of subscriptions, Johnson said the team will show a profit this season. "There's no question we make money," said Johnson, who cited revenue from cable television, luxury suites and arena advertising. The television picture isn't as lucrative for the league at large. After earning $51 million over three seasons for limited geographical coverage on SportsChannel America, the N.H.L. still has nothing new to announce despite many months of negotiations. Ziegler said that the league had no deadline for a new television deal and that it might begin the season without one. He was in New York today to preside over a meeting of the board, which is trying to negotiate a new collective bargaining agreement with the Players Association to replace the one that runs out on Sept. 15. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 5, 1991, on Page B00016 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; Islanders Are Back, So Are Problems.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »