Advertisement By BARBARA LLOYD A sagging marine market has put new life into the coming boat-show season, which moves into full swing next month. Manufacturers and trade organizers are finding they must look for new ways to sell their wares along waterfront sites. The fall boat shows are ablaze with hype, much of it directed at the first-time buyer. Free sailing lessons are offered, as well as seminars for fishermen and demonstrations for navigators on a wide array of new marine electronics. Some shows are offering free admission for children under 12. Others are setting up brokerage offices on special boats; reluctant buyers need only step aboard to negotiate a loan. America's Cup on Display The Newport International Sailboat Show, Sept. 5-8 in Newport, R.I., plans to display the 140-year-old America's Cup as a kind of nautical roadside attraction. The trophy is returning to Newport for the first time since 1983, when it was lost to Australia in the cup races that year. Advertisement "With the way the sailboat economy is going, we felt we had to go beyond what we have ever done," said Karla Holmes-Little, the Newport show's manager. Inside, there will be fashion shows, seminars and a forum on the next America's Cup race series. On display will be Weatherly, the 1962 America's Cup defender, and Amoco Procyon, one of the industry's most technologically advanced sailboats. Advertisement The innovation is mostly in presentation, not substance these days with much of the marine industry in a holding pattern, consolidating wherever possible to stay afloat. "It is very, very rough out there," said Greg Proteau of the National Marine Manufacturers Association, a trade group based in Chicago. Not Many Legitimately New Designs> "You don't see a great deal of legitimately new products and designs. It makes sense for manufacturers not to make dramatic changes. It would take away the incentive for buyers to look at models already on the market." Estimates by the manufacturers group, which represents about 80 percent of the marine market in the United States, shows that the number of boats sold has dropped by nearly one-third in the last two years, from 749,000 to 504,100. The sailboat industry, which has been reeling from poor sales for more than five years, sold 21,000 new boats last year compared with 27,000 in 1989. The powerboat industry, which reached a peak in 1988, sold 339,000 boats last year compared with 445,400 in 1989. Opposition to Tax  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Over all, my guess is, especially with the hit we've taken with the excise tax, it's going to be down again," Proteau said about 1991 figures. The Federal excise tax adds a 10 percent tax on boats costing more than $100,000. The manufacturers group has lobbied for the tax's repeal, maintaining that it has decreased big-boat sales and created unemployment in the industry. Jay Silberman, an organizer of the Atlantic City In-Water Power Boat Show, is trying to attract that upper-bracket buyer to his show. "The boats that are soft are between $100,000 and $250,000," he said. "After that, it doesn't matter as much." One of the newest craft being shown at the Atlantic City show (also Sept. 5-8) this year is a 45-foot speedboat, the Apache Kid. The $750,000 craft is built with three 1,292-horsepower turbocharged engines and travels up to about 40 miles an hour. The bread and butter of the powerboat industry continues to be the runabout. Sea Ray plans to introduce an affordable boat and trailer package at the Norwalk International In-Water Powerboat Show in Norwalk, Conn., Sept. 12-15: its new 16-foot outboard limited comes with a 50-horsepower outboard engine and specially designed trailer for about $8,000. Bayliner Marine, which introduced the first boat and trailer package in 1984, offers similar packages this year. Advertisement Many of the trade shows are stressing accessories, especially in marine electronics, according to Michael Duffy, manager of the Norwalk show. The Independence Group, a fledgling yachting syndicate based in Cos Cob, Conn., has offered $2 million to organizers for the next America's Cup races in San Diego. The proposed gift comes with the provision that the Independence group be allowed to race as a defense team. The America's Cup Organizing Committee has refused the offer, maintaining that the Connecticut group has not demonstrated that it has legitimate funding or expertise. The organizing committee met in San Diego with Al Constantine, promoter for the Independence Group, last June. The two official America's Cup defense syndicates, Team Dennis Conner and America 3, plan to announce a new sponsorship agreement Tuesday in New York. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 1, 1991, on Page 8008013 of the National edition with the headline: Boating; Fall Boat Shows Will Feature Hype.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »