Advertisement 

      By IAN LOVETT

JUNE 16, 2014
 
Join us here as we cover every match of the World Cup with live analysis, photos and graphics.
 If the first few days of this World Cup have taught us anything, it is that no 1-0 lead is safe.  Brazil, the Netherlands, the Ivory Coast, Switzerland and Costa Rica have all come back to win after conceding the first goal. And now, Belgium has done the same.   The first half was a nightmare for the Belgians, who are favorites to top Group H, and considered dark horses to win the tournament. After giving away a penalty kick early in the game, Belgium trailed, 1-0.   Algeria defended deep, with the entire team sometimes packed into its own defensive third, and Belgium struggled to create any clear chances.  The second half was a different story. Belgium brought on three substitutes, who completely changed the game. One of them, Marouane Fellaini, tied the game with an impressive header. Then another substitute, Dries Mertens, won it for Belgium with a powerful strike into the roof of the net to finish off a lightning-quick counter-attack.   Algeria defended bravely for most of the game, but, as the United States learned on Monday, it is difficult to defend for 90 minutes when your team does not possess the ball, which Algeria did not.   Ultimately, after a disappointing start, the Belgians’ attacking quality asserted itself. They will need to improve if they want to go deep into the tournament, but this come-from-behind win showed the team’s spirit and depth. They are, without question, a dangerous team.  Full story » What a nightmare start for Belgium. Vertonghen gives away a penalty, pushing the Algerian attacker from behind as he struggled to defend a cross. Feghouli coolly slots the penalty home for Algeria. 1-0. Shocking start!    De Brunye plays a great ball into the box from the left side and Fellanini and his huge tuft hair rises highest and heads into the Algerian goal. Fantastic impact since he came on as a sub.     All three Belgian substitutes have really changed the game. Origi, who is quick as lightning, has become a perpetual thorn in the side of the Algerian defense. Mertens and Fellaini, meanwhile, are driving the team forward, adding pace and determination that the team was lacking in first half.  Belgium are now creating one chance after another, many of them off crosses from the wings. Algeria, who were defending so comfortably for much of the game, are now just trying to hang onto this 1-1 score with their fingernails. Fantastic counter-attack goal. Algeria push a few players forward for once, and, when they lose the ball, they pay for it.  Hazard picks up the ball near midfield and drives forward at the defense. He feeds Mertens on the right side of the box, who hammers it into the roof of the net. 2-1. Now Belgium, after all their struggles today, are solidly in control.    Belgium is playing in a major tournament for the first time since 2002, but the team is experiencing something of a golden generation. Its attack is filled with options, including this year’s breakthrough Premier League star, Romelu Lukaku; Chelsea’s Eden Hazard; and Wolfsburg’s Kevin De Bruyne. An unsung hero is Axel Witsel, who directs play from a defensive midfield position.
Algeria could be in trouble. Its top scorer, Islam Slimani of Sporting Lisbon, is one of many on the team plying their trades for second- or third-tier European teams. Belgium is a favorite to advance from this group, but will want to seal that by getting 3 points in what should be its easiest match. Algeria would be delighted with a point in its opener. Advertisement