Advertisement By GEORGE VECSEY The day of the big game dawned bright and clear. In New York. Warm spring Saturday, potential for jogging or puttering, but something better to do: the Boston Garden. This weekend, Boston was the hub of the universe: the Bruins finished off their grudge round with the Canadiens on Friday night; the Red Sox beat the Oakland Athletics at Fenway Park Friday night. And yesterday, Celtics versus Knicks, the first round of the playoffs. The Knicks hadn't won in the Boston Garden since Feb. 29, 1984, leap year, 25 games and counting. Some traditions go on forever. Others last a few months: the headlines at the newsstand at the shuttle said Donald was trying to unload his airline, to come up with some cash for amazing new deals. Or maybe it's for alimony and lawyers, for making whoopee. Advertisement No harm in taking a few paper cocktail napkins with that ugly red-T logo on them. A few months from now they could be collector's items. ''Remember that guy, Donald Trump? He was fun while he lasted.'' Advertisement Boston looked great on final approach: low tide, pale New England skin being exposed for the first time at the beaches. Deplaning was Richard Evans, president of Madison Square Garden, having a bad corporate week what with the Rangers going down and the Knicks looking bad. No big bucks in May. He took a cab anyway. Some people prefer the ritual of the shuttle bus and the M.T.A. blue line. Inbound, fans in green shorts, green ball caps, green shirts, heading for Uncle Red's Steambath on Causeway Street. It is always a surprise to encounter Boston in the spring. The city is at its best on a clammy February night, everybody in ratty raincoats, coming out of the Garden into a few inches of new snow. Bermuda shorts are so incongruous at North Station. The Garden was quiet two hours before game time. Tall man in white jeans and pink sport shirt walked through the darkened lobby. Vendors extended their hands and asked for five. Larry Bird risked his shooting fingers to slam a few palms. Narrow corridors. Ancient restrooms. Archaic stairways. Rudimentary refreshment stands. A club official said they will start digging for the new Garden as soon as the playoffs are over, target date 1993. Progress, maybe.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Two ballboys shot baskets in semi-darkness. Sixteen, count 'em, 16, Celtics' World Champions banners hanging overhead. The parquet floor. Susan Waldman of New York radio station WFAN recalled her well-spent childhood in Newton: ''We used to come here for games when Cousy and Russell were playing. The only time the Garden sold out was for the Bruins. You could hear Red Auerbach instructing his players during the game. You were learning basketball from Red Auerbach.'' Players ambled out, stretched on the parquet, practiced their shots. Paul Silas, assistant coach of the Knicks, defying the heat in white shirt and tie, smiled broadly and proclaimed, nicely, ''We're gonna kick butt today.'' No butt-kicking last Thursday. Knicks were out-shoved and out-thought. Did Rick Pitino know what he was doing, going to Kentucky after two years? Maybe he got everything possible out of this team, saw there was no further to go, leaving Mark Jackson behind, observing a year of mourning. Advertisement First quarter: Garden not as hot as in some past Lakers series. The Knicks try to make the elderly Celtics run. Not a bad idea. With Knicks down by 5, Charles Oakley can't resist clobbering Dennis Johnson during a Knick fast break. Earl Strom spots it. Break averted. Second quarter: Mark Jackson sent in for weary Mo Cheeks with 9:13 to go. Black braces on both knees. Can't work his way around butterball John Bagley. Celtics expand lead from 9 to 15 with 6:34 left. Jackson removed after only 2:39. Sad. Knicks still down by 15 at the half. Third quarter: Knicks forget to work ball in to Patrick Ewing, or maybe Ewing forgets to call for it. Celtic fans near the Knick bench hound Strom for a call while lead is worked up to 30. After another timeout, Ewing dunks ball with vengeance, hanging on rim. Dunk still counts for only 2 points. Knicks down by 28 after three. Fourth quarter: Early garbage time. No matter who the players, what the decade, ball zips around like in a pinball game, same crisp passes. Ping-ping-ping. Fans cheer the subs. Knick bench players trudge toward dressing room with time still left. Fans cheer final totals. Final score is 157-128, highest ever by one team in a playoff game. So much for making the poor old guys run. Series moves to New York on Wednesday. Would the league please do a favor to the Knicks and schedule them in here on Feb. 29, 1992? It's their day. The old barn will still be standing. Maybe longer, with any luck. There will always be a Boston Garden, with the banners. Time to go back to the shuttle to see if that ugly red-T logo is still on the planes. Some things last longer than others. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 29, 1990, on Page 8008004 of the National edition with the headline: SPORTS OF THE TIMES;   A JOURNEY TO THE CENTER OF THE WORLD.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »