Advertisement By CHARLES R. ALLEN JR. A recently published book, "Roger Maris*, A Title to Fame," (Prairie House, 1991) by Harvey Rosenfeld is not simply the best, fully documented brief in behalf of installing Roger Maris forthwith into the baseball Hall of Fame. It is also a gripping, sensitive, yet angry story that defies the reader to put it down. Moreover, the pairing of the book's author and the book's subject seems to make up a publishing event that challenges any press agent. Dr. Rosenfeld is a professor of English on the faculties of the City University of New York and St. John's University and an Orthodox Jew, who edits "Martyrdom & Resistance," the journal of international scholars and writers that chronicles Israel's memories of the Holocaust. A Brooklynite, Rosenfeld is also impatient, quick, nonstop. Roger Maris was a stolid, reserved, quiet Midwesterner, as are the good people at the book's publishing house, Prairie House, in North Dakota. Yet the combination works, and upon closer examination author and subject are not such an unlikely union. Advertisement One of Maris's close friends back in his hometown, Fargo, N.D., was the city's Jewish Mayor, Herschel Laskowitz. To this day, Maris remains a hero to the 200 or so Jews of Fargo, who have been tireless in the effort to have Maris achieve election into the Hall of Fame.  Documents 1961 Home-Run Chase Advertisement With the touch of the scholar, "Roger Maris*" documents how the Yankee outfielder chased Babe Ruth's storied record of 60 home runs in one season (1927), caught and passed that monumental achievement with his 61st on Oct. 1, 1961. Rosenfeld tells the story against the broader context of an entrenched baseball establishment run by old men and an eagerly pliant and aggressive media determined, by and large, to hound Maris into a paralysis of frustration, fatigue and futility that sought to block him from breaking the Babe's mythic standard. The book painstakingly documents exactly how this vicious "holy war" was orchestrated and carried out. From the tampering with the rule of organized baseball by Ford Frick, then commissioner of the major leagues, who alone decreed sacrosanct the 154-game home-run record (Ruth's) as opposed to Maris's 162-game campaign, to the New York media's vilification of Maris and favoritism shown Mickey Mantle's simultaneous run at the record.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. (At the request of the current commissioner, Fay Vincent, on Sept. 4 baseball's committee on statistical accuracy voted to eliminate the notation -- the mythical asterisk has never existed -- next to Maris's name in the various record books explaining that he hit 61 home runs in a 162-game season.) How Maris fought through this onslaught to his ultimate triumph makes for compelling, page-turning reading. A Larger Story But the author has told another, largely unknown aspect of Roger Maris's character: his quiet commitment to fighting anti-Semitism. Maris's first and closest friend when he came to the Big Apple was Big Julie Isaacson, a Brooklyn labor leader. Their relationship, in Rosenfeld's words, "blossomed into an unshakable friendship." In the book, Big Julie said: "He was a country kid from North Dakota. I grew up in Brooklyn. He was basically quiet. I was very loud. He was a Catholic. I was a Jew." Once, Big Julie could not come up with an appropriate bar mitzvah gift for a close friend's son. On the spot, Maris suggested that he himself go with Big Julie as the youngster's "gift." "Are you the Yankee fan who became a man today?" the celebrated ballplayer asked the awestruck youngster. Big Julie recalled, "Roger sang along for 'Hava Nagilah.' I couldn't even sing the words myself. Roger just worked hard to show his friends he cared." Advertisement Finally, the book stands as a cogent demand that Roger Maris be bestowed with his "Title to Fame": his overdue and rightful place in the Hall of Fame. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 29, 1991, on Page 8008013 of the National edition with the headline: BACKTALK; The Man Behind the Asterisk: Another Side of Maris.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »