Advertisement Supported by Roundup By The Associated Press Miguel Cabrera hit a three-run homer off Tommy Hunter with two outs in the ninth inning, and the visiting Detroit Tigers, down to their last strike, rallied past the Baltimore Orioles, 4-1, on Tuesday night. After being held scoreless on three hits in the first eight innings, the Tigers were helped by a reversed call. Hunter held a 1-0 lead before giving up a leadoff single to Alex Avila. Pinch-runner Rajai Davis was called out trying to steal, but Detroit Manager Brad Ausmus challenged the call, and after looking at the replay, the umpires overturned it. Hunter (1-1) got two straight outs before working the count on Torii Hunter to 1-2. The at-bat ended in a walk, and Cabrera hit an 0-1 curveball over the center-field wall for his sixth home run. “It’s a chance that we win or we’re going to lose,” Cabrera said. “You don’t have to think too much of it. You’ve got to go out there and try and see what happens.” Victor Martinez then homered as well. BREWERS 5, PIRATES 2 Jonathan Lucroy hit a bases-loaded, two-run single, and battered Milwaukee withstood the early exits of the star outfielders Carlos Gomez and Ryan Braun to beat visiting Pittsburgh. Gomez scored the second run on Lucroy’s single in the third after being hit by a changeup from Gerrit Cole (3-3). ASTROS 8, RANGERS 0 Dallas Keuchel pitched a seven-hitter for his first major league shutout, leading host Houston past Texas. Keuchel (4-2) struck out seven without a walk. He gave up just one extra-base hit, a double by Adrian Beltre in the first inning, and threw his second career complete game. ROYALS 5, ROCKIES 1 James Shields cooled down hot-hitting Colorado over seven innings, Lorenzo Cain and Salvador Perez homered and host Kansas City beat the Rockies. The only run Shields allowed came on a run-scoring single by Justin Morneau in the fourth inning. Shields (5-3) followed it up by retiring the final 10 batters he faced. PADRES 2, REDS 1 Chase Headley homered in the ninth inning off Aroldis Chapman, the first hit Chapman allowed since his return from being hit in the head by a line drive, and visiting San Diego beat Cincinnati. The Padres got their season-high fourth straight win despite managing only three hits. Seth Smith had the only two hits that Mike Leake allowed in the first eight innings. ANGELS 4, PHILLIES 3 Luis Jimenez hit a tiebreaking, two-run double in the sixth inning, Matt Shoemaker tossed five effective innings and visiting Los Angeles beat Philadelphia. Mike Trout went 1 for 5 with more than 4,000 fans from his hometown, Millville, N.J., in the crowd. The two-time All-Star center fielder grew up in the small town 45 minutes south of Philadelphia. BLUE JAYS 5, INDIANS 4 R. A. Dickey won for the third time in four starts, Juan Francisco homered and host Toronto beat Cleveland. Dickey (4-3) allowed two earned runs and four hits in six-plus innings.    Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS