Advertisement By JOE SEXTON The season that can't conclude fast enough for the Mets last night was sabotaged by a doubleheader that didn't seem to want to end. The Pirates, after having a 2-0 lead vanish in the ninth inning and then a 3-2 advantage turn to mist in the 14th inning of the opener at Shea Stadium, ultimately prevailed, 4-3, over the Mets in 15, the longest game of the season for both teams. The Mets won the second game, 2-1, finishing the doubleheader a little before 1 A.M. The first game, a marathon of insignificance, lasted 4 hours 20 minutes and featured a total of 27 men stranded on base. "If we had been in a pennant race, it would have been a heck of a game," said Mets Manager Bud Harrelson. 3 Outs from Victory Advertisement For eight innings, it appeared destined to be a predictable defeat for the Mets. Randy Tomlin, the left-hander with the weird mechanics and the unblemished record against the Mets, entered the ninth with a shutout, needing three outs to improve his career mark against the Mets to 6-0. Advertisement But Garry Templeton followed singles by Mark Carreon and Terry McDaniel with a two-out ground rule double that produced a run. Reliever Stan Belinda's wild pitch then scored the tying run, and with the moon rising and the temperature sinking, the Mets and Pirates entered extra innings. "It felt kind of good just to get Tomlin out of there without a win," Harrelson said. The Pirates were again positioned to win in the 14th. An infield single by Lloyd McClendon scored Gary Redus, and even the fans at Shea were applauding the apparent resolution of the game. But those same fans certainly weren't booing when Todd Hundley sent a 3-2 pitch from Bill Landrum screaming over the fence in the 14th to level and lengthen the game with his first home run in the major leagues. Home-Run Surprise  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "I wasn't trying for the home run," Hundley said, to no one's surprise. "I was trying to hit the ball hard." Everyone has hit the baseball hard against Wally Whitehurst the second half of the season, and so the game was at last decided for good in the 15th. Barry Bonds singled to lead off and Don Slaught doubled to hand Whitehurst his 12th loss of the season. "I don't know about the players," said Harrelson, "but I was getting tired." Harrelson three hours later was smiling through his fatigue more convincingly. The Mets took their time but took the decision, a triumph achieved in regulation, if not with ease. Howard Johnson, his franchise mark for runs batted in expanding nightly, delivered Keith Miller from third base in the eighth inning to snap a 1-1 deadlock. Miller walked against Roger Mason to start the inning, was sacrificed to second, advanced to third on Gregg Jefferies's infield hit and became Johnson's 112th r.b.i. of the season when the right fielder lifted a fly to right. INSIDE PITCH Manager BUD HARRELSON said he did not want to have to wait until after the World Series or baseball's winter meetings in December to learn his fate for next season. "But if I have to wait, I'll wait," said Harrelson. . . . JOHN SMILEY, who was going for his 19th victory, left after five innings after being struck in the left arm with a GREGG JEFFERIES line drive. ORLANDO MERCED, the first baseman, also left the game for the Pirates with an injured right foot. . . . JOHN FRANCO earned his 28th save by working the ninth inning of the nightcap. DWIGHT GOODEN returned to his Florida home Wednesday night and will not return to be with the Mets this season. He will continue his rehabilitation from shoulder surgery in St. Petersburg, Fla. . . . DAVE MAGADAN, the first baseman who had both shoulders operated on recently, departed for Tampa, Fla., yesterday. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 27, 1991, on Page B00008 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Mets Take Their Time To Split.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »