Advertisement By THOMAS GEORGE and  Ricky Ervins was describing his slippery but solid running on the rain-soaked field against the Atlanta Falcons last Saturday. Ervins just as easily might have been summarizing much of his football past and his entire rookie season, one in which he vaulted from obscurity to provide the Redskins' versatile offense with another wicked weapon. "There were a lot of times where I slipped," Ervins said of his 104 rushing yards in the playoff victory against the Falcons, "but luckily I stayed up." Ervins has a knack for remaining steady. It rubs off on others and keeps opportunities flowing his way. He was born in Fort Wayne, Ind., but grew up in Pasadena, Calif., and said he had taken charge in helping some people close to him overcome problems with drug abuse. Ervins said that he never needed drugs, that football had always provided his high, even when he was on the fringes of the biggest games, including in high school when he worked as a parking attendant at the 1987 Rose Bowl. 'Jackrabbit' Overcomes Hurdles Advertisement An ankle injury caused him to lose most of his senior season at Southern Cal. In the 1991 draft, he was a third-round pick, with seven other backs being selected before him. It took him awhile to learn his Redskins blocking assignments and to overcome Coach Joe Gibbs's fear of giving the football to a rookie running back. Advertisement But as Washington prepares to play the Detroit Lions on Sunday in the National Conference championship game, Ervins enters as the top gainer among N.F.C. rookie running backs. He compiled 680 rushing yards on 145 carries this season with a long run of 65 yards, which went for a touchdown. He is only the fifth Redskin to gain 100 rushing yards in a playoff game. Earnest Byner remains the Redskins' starting tailback, but Ervins's workload is increasing. Against Atlanta, Byner had 14 carries, Ervins 23. Ervins is the Redskins' "changeup" back. He has more speed and more moves than Byner, and he enters the game after Byner has hammered the opponent with runs that develop slower but are more bruising. Ervins describes himself as a "jackrabbit running in tall grass." Others say he hit the ground running here in temperament as well as in production. They call him a "mudder" now, a guy who runs on wet surfaces as well as he does on dry ones. He is built like one of those plastic whiffleball bats with the large barrel and the skinny handle. He is 5 feet 7 inches, 200 pounds, wears a size-42 jacket, has a 34-inch waist, wears a size-9 shoe and has smallish hands.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. He can absorb a hit and deliver one. And this, the Redskins love: Ervins has fumbled only once in 168 pro carries. "I guess I'm put together a little differently and I have a low center of gravity," Ervins said. "I can't say anything about the teams that passed me up in the draft. I was hurt almost the whole year as a senior. I'm just fortunate the Redskins believed in me. "In learning our offense, you've got to know defenses. You've got to know who to block, when to go out on pass routes, learn to catch the ball and know when to break off your routes when there is a blitz. There's a lot to learn and I'm still learning. No one moment sticks out from this season. Hopefully, that's yet to come." Ervins has been Barry Sanders this week in Redskins' practices. Washington has tried to prepare to defend against Sanders, the Lions' All-Pro running whiz, by using Ervins and kick-returner Brian Mitchell in the way that the Lions use Sanders. Ervins said Sanders, like other backs, will try any type of move to fool defenders. The difference, he said, is Sanders looks good doing it while others look foolish. Advertisement "Before I got hurt in my senior year at U.S.C.," said Ervins, "I asked a friend to get me in touch with Barry. I was having a rough time and I was kind of down. He told me I shouldn't be psyched out. He told me that even though I wasn't getting big yardage, to stick with it and things would go pop! He said believe in your line. That's all still good advice for today. I admire Barry a lot." And Byner, too. Ervins said he and Byner are like brothers. "I always wanted a big brother," Ervins said. "Earnest and I have a great bond. I go to his house a lot and we talk. He's helped me learn the offense and helped me handle everything this year. He lives for the Lord and he is not selfish. I'm very lucky to be playing behind him." Byner said he sees a lot of himself in Ervins, especially in desire and in attitude. Byner understands there is room for Ervins in the Redskins' scheme and that Ervins will play more against Detroit this time. In the Redskins' season-opening 45-0 victory over Detroit, Ervins did not enter the game until the fourth quarter and was involved in only six plays. "A lot of things have changed since that game," Ervins said. "They're a 13-3 team since then. They've got what we've got, good receivers, a good quarterback and an aggressive team. It kind of scares you, makes you nervous. But I won't change what I've been doing or try to approach anything differently than I have. I've come too far to change now." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 10, 1992, on Page B00007 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL; In Fair Weather or Foul.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »