Advertisement By NELSON BRYANT There is considerable disagreement among biologists and anglers over whether Atlantic coast stocks of Atlantic striped bass have recovered sufficiently to allow more harvesting by sport and commercial interests in the coming season. Once the most sought-after inshore game fish along the Northeast coast, stripers of Chesapeake Bay origin went into precipitous decline in the early 1970's. Historically, the Chesapeake has accounted for most of the species that wander up and down the coast. Various reasons have been advanced for the striper's plight, among them overfishing by sport and commercial interests, pollution (including acid rain) and unusually low water temperatures during the striper's spawning periods. Midway in the last decade, fisheries managers took the one option immediately available: severe reduction of the catch. In 1984, Congress passed the Striped Bass Conservation Act, which required the coastal states from Maine to North Carolina to adopt a striper management plan promulgated by the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission. The act gives the Federal Government the power to shut down all fishing for the species in states that do not follow the plan. Advertisement In 1985, Maryland went beyond the plan's requirements and imposed a total moratorium on striper fishing. Maryland said its ban would not be lifted until the Chesapeake's striped bass young-of-the-year index reached a three-year running average of 8. Advertisement The is index is a measure of relative abundance of juvenile stripers. (The commission's plan called for sharply reduced harvesting and no increase until the running average of 8 was attained.) The index, intended to provide a measure of spawning success, has been computed for 36 years. It involves counting the numbers of juvenile stripers taken - at 22 specific sites in the bay in July, August and September - in 132 haul seine samplings. The index of 8 is the approximate average over the entire period the samplings have taken place. The highest index, in 1970, was 30. It was below 5 in the 80's save for 1982, when it was 8.4, and last year, when it was 25.2. A key element in the commission's plan was protecting the females of the relatively abundant 1982 year class with minimum-length limits that crept upward a few inches season after season, the idea being to give those fish a chance to spawn at least once. Last year - with some exceptions - the basic recreational limit for coastal-migrating stocks of stripers was one fish a day, 36 or more inches long. Last fall, the 25.2 index figure prompted the commission to announce that it would relax its restrictions in 1990. The recreational limit would remain at one fish a day, but the minimum size would be dropped to 28 inches. Each state would be required to limit its 1990 harvest to 20 percent of its average annual landings from 1972 through 1979. Some of the striper's champions questioned the 1989 Maryland index. They included Joe Boone, who, until he retired in 1986, ran Maryland's striper sampling program for 27 years. Boone said the '89 sampling was skewed by two abnormally successful seine hauls in the Choptank River. It was a good year, he added, but not good enough to warrant any significant relaxation of regulations.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Boone has not been alone in this view, and a short while ago an article in Sports Illustrated by Robert Boyle questioned the plan to allow more stripers to be caught. Boyle quoted Dr. Ian Fletcher, who is chief scientist at the Great Salt Bay experimental Laboratory in Damariscotta, Me., as having said that the Maryland sampling procedure had always been invalid. Reached by telephone, Fletcher said, among other things, that he was amazed that the commission's technical committee hadn't made Maryland aware of this. A redesigned and valid sampling procedure, would not, he said, cost any more to operate than the one now in effect. Fletcher is also a professor of oceanography at the State University of New York in Stony Brook and his affidavits on the Hudson River's striped bass helped defeat the Westway project. The coastal states have been busy preparing their proposed striper regulations for 1990. The minimum-length limits being contemplated by some of them follow, but it should be understood that all these plans are subject to approval or rejection by the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission. The daily recreational limit is always one fish unless otherwise stated. Advertisement Massachusetts, which has a significant commercial rod-and-reel fishery for stripers (103,000 pounds were caught in that fishery in 1988), had planned to drop the minimum size to 28 inches. But opposition from sport-fishing interests was so intense that it was decided to leave the size at 36 inches. Rhode Island will go for the 28-inch minimum. Bob Jones, chief of Connecticut's Bureau of Natural Resources, said his office would undoubtedly propose a minimum length greater than 28 inches. Connecticut, which for decades has banned the sale of stripers caught in its waters, has no problems associated with commercial fishing for stripers as do Massachusetts and New York state. In New York State, Gordon Colvin, director of the Division of Marine Resources, said his office's plans were still being formulated. Stocks of Hudson-spawned stripers have been doing very well and account for many of their kind that are caught in the state's waters. It is possible that they could sustain a commercial fishery, but bass of Hudson origin are contaminated by PCB's, some above the level deemed fit for human consumption. Because of this, New York closed commercial fishing for them more than a decade ago. New Jersey is proposing a 28-inch minimum for coastal-migrating stripers and a 36-inch minimum for those caught in the Delaware River or Delaware Bay. The state will also submit a plan that would allow coastal anglers to take one additional ''trophy bass'' of 38 inches or more in length each day. The technical committee of the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission meets April 10 to consider the states' proposals. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 25, 1990, on Page 8008004 of the National edition with the headline: Outdoors;   Disagreement on Striped Bass.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »