Advertisement By CLAIRE SMITH and  There were only 13 games left for the Boston Red Sox when they took to the field tonight, in pursuit of their second straight American League East title. An unlucky number, perhaps, for those given to such superstitions. And a black cat appeared on the field right before a crucial error favoring Baltimore. But good karma, bad karma or no karma at all, one thing was certain: Boston had no luck at all. Saddled by sloppy play (three errors), stymied by a slick rookie reliever by the name of Jim Poole, who retired 14 of the 15 batters he faced, the Red Sox went quietly against the Orioles, 4-3. "I was pumped to play against a team in a pennant race," Poole said. "The adrenaline was flowing, and I almost hyperventilated." Advertisement The Red Sox entered the game trailing the Blue Jays by a game and a half. Toronto played later in the evening at California. The Boston loss, though not critical, chipped away at the aura of invincibility the Red Sox had built by winning 8 of their previous 10 games. Advertisement The Red Sox, who fell to the Yanks in 10 innings Sunday, lost their second game in a row and faced the possibility of losing ground to the Blue Jays on consecutive days for the first time since Aug. 24-25. Starting on Positive Note The game actually started on a somewhat promising note for Boston as the Red Sox milked two first-inning runs out of two singles and two doubles off Orioles starter Jose Mesa. Baltimore unveiled its attack of the day an inning later, chipping away at Boston starter Mike Gardiner by taking advantage of the rookie's wildness. Gardiner walked two in the inning, the most crucial pass coming with two out, a runner on second and one run in. He respected No. 8 hitter Chris Hoiles (11 home runs, 28 runs batted in) just a bit too much, walking him on six pitches. Then Gardiner drove the count to 3-2 against Billy Ripken, a .224 hitter, before giving up a run-scoring single. Gardiner finally got the grounder he needed, but it came right after that cat -- one of many that live in Memorial Stadium -- strayed from the visiting dugout, of all places, onto the field. And the ball was hit just a second before Luis Rivera commited his 23d error of the season. Rivera had the ball pop off his chest and, by the time he recovered, his throw to first was late. The go-ahead run had scored.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Orioles lost the lead in the fourth as Boston managed to get one run out of a bases-loaded, no-out situation, courtesy of a double-play grounder off the bat of pinch-hitter Tom Brunansky. The Orioles took the lead that same inning, again by using mirrors and another spate of wildness by Gardiner (9-8). Leo Gomez's one-out double set up the opportunity; a four-pitch walk drawn by Billy Ripken with two out prolonged it, and Mike Devereaux cashed it in by delivering a single. "That was a great illustration for instructional camp -- it shows you you've got to throw strikes to win," said Gardiner, who threw 122 pitches altogether, 36 pitches in the second and fourth innings each. "I got behind the left-handed hitters and that hurt. I just didn't get the job done." Poole (2-0), meanwhile, retired 13 straight, including 10 on groundouts or infield popups, to pick up the victory. Advertisement "He had a good slider and threw the ball well," Red Sox first baseman Mo Vaughn said. "He wasn't overpowering, but he got ahead of the hitters and made us hit his pitch." Tigers 2, Indians 1 DETROIT, Sept. 23 (AP) -- Bill Gullickson became the American League's first 19-game winner as Detroit snapped a six-game losing streak with a 2-1 victory tonight. Gullickson (19-9) is the Tigers' first 19-game winner since Jack Morris won 21 in 1986. Gullickson gave up six hits, walked none and struck out four in seven innings. Mike Henneman worked two perfect innings for his 20th save. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 24, 1991, on Page B00010 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Red Sox, in Need of Luck, Get Everything but, and Lose.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »