Advertisement By ALEX YANNIS and  The Devils gave more than enough evidence tonight that they are not forgiving to those who walk out of training camp over contract disputes, even if the player involved is the captain. The team traded Kirk Muller to the Montreal Canadiens along with veteran goalie Roland Melanson for Stephane Richer and Tom Chorske. Lou Lamoriello, the New Jersey president, announced the trade at the beginning of the second period of the team's exhibition game with the Rangers at Byrne Meadowlands Arena, and it shocked many of the Devils players. "I was bombed out when I heard," said John MacLean, the team's most productive goal scorer the last three years, who is in a contract dispute himself. "It's something very sad," added MacLean, who was nearly in tears. "Let's hope everything will work out his way." Advertisement Muller, who is one of MacLean's closest friends, sounded ecstatic at the news of his trade when he was reached by telephone at his home a few miles from here. He was there because he walked out of camp Monday morning over a contract dispute. Advertisement Tonight, he said that he loved the Devils, but that hockey is a business and trades are part of the business. "I'm really happy," said the 25-year-old Muller, who has been one of the most dedicated players in his seven years with the Devils. "Any kid that grows up in Canada is excited about playing in Montreal. It's a great move for my hockey career." Muller left as the team's leading career scorer with 520 points. But he left in the context of an unsettled atmosphere, brought on by an arbitrator's decision early this month to award star defenseman Scott Stevens to the Devils as compensation from St. Louis for Brendan Shanahan. Stevens, who has not joined the Devils, is scheduled to make $875,000 this season. Muller was going into the option year of a $325,000 contract, and had been seeking $850,000 or a trade. Lamoriello said that the purpose of trading Muller was not to send a message to other Devils in contract disputes, specifically Ken Daneyko, who this month became the second player in the Devils' history not to report to camp at all. He is still out. (The first such player was Pat Verbeek, three years ago, and he was sent packing to Hartford.) Lamoriello admitted, however, that Muller's desertion of the team Monday morning made him think. He said he had discussions with Serge Savard, his Montreal counterpart, only in the last few days. "The team is bigger than anyone," Lamoriello said. "We felt we had an opportunity to do something to improve our team. I'm looking at this as an improvement for our team."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The 25-year-old Richer (pronounced REE-shay) is the key player in the trade for the Devils. He is a powerful and explosive right wing who has played all of his National Hockey League career with the Canadiens, scoring 198 goals in 413 games. Muller, a native of Kingston, Ontario, had 185 goals in 556 games for the Devils. He also had 335 assists, and he missed only four games in his seven years with the Devils, who made him the second draft pick over all in 1984, after Mario Lemieux. Richer was the 29th choice in the same draft. Like Muller, he is in the option year of his contract, and he had contract disputes with Montreal. Richer was skating in the warm-ups of an exhibition game against the Bruins in Montreal tonight when he was called off the ice to be informed of the trade. Advertisement "Richer is an explosive player who can bring a new dimension to our team," Lamoriello said. "He is a player who has also won a Stanley Cup." Chorske, who was drafted 16th in the 1985 draft by Montreal, played his first full season with the Canadiens last year. He is also a right wing with a lot of speed, but he is not a scorer. He has 12 goals in 72 N.H.L. games. Melanson was involved in the trade, which came a day after a blockbuster deal between Edmonton and Toronto involving Grant Fuhr and Glenn Anderson, because he had no chance of making the Devils. He played at the Devils' top affiliate in the minor leagues, the Utica Devils, the last two years, and he was destined to return there. Asked if he planned any more trades, Lamoriello said: "We're not looking for anything. We're just looking to settle down our team and get ready for the season." SLAP SHOTS CRAIG BILLINGTON went all the way in goal for the Devils, making 29 saves in the 6-1 triumph over the Rangers despite allowing the game's first goal, to JODY HULL. The Devils settled down afterward and got goals from six different players -- CLAUDE LEMIEUX, JOHN MacLEAN, SCOTT NIEDERMAYER, WALT PODDUBNY, JEFF CHRISTIAN and DAVE BARR. All the goals were against BORIS ROUSSON, who faced 30 shots. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 21, 1991, on Page 1001027 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; Shipping Out A Walkout: Muller Traded By the Devils.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »