Advertisement Supported by By Scott Cacciola As co-owner of the Los Angeles Clippers for the past 33 years, Rochelle Sterling has been a largely silent partner. But now, as the N.B.A. pushes for the permanent removal of her husband, she does not want to go away quietly. Sterling, known as Shelly, has been married to Donald Sterling for 58 years. They have shared ownership of the Clippers through a family trust.  In an hourlong interview Monday in a penthouse suite at the Ritz-Carlton New York, Sterling, 79, and her lawyer, Pierce O’Donnell, vowed to fight the league if it tried to force her out. In their minds, she is collateral damage. Donald Sterling, 80, was suspended for life by N.B.A. Commissioner Adam Silver as a result of an audiotape in which he made racist remarks. Citing the N.B.A. constitution, Mike Bass, a league spokesman, said that if three-quarters of team owners terminate the interest of a controlling owner — in this case, Donald Sterling — the interests of all other partners are terminated as well. “It doesn’t matter whether the owners are related,” Bass said, adding, “These are the rules to which all N.B.A. owners agreed to as a condition of owning their team.” Nevertheless, O’Donnell said he was determined to challenge the league’s interpretation of its own constitution. “We’re ready to go to war if we have to,” he said.  And here is what Rochelle Sterling had to say:  Q: You said over the weekend that you plan to file for divorce at some point in the near future. Why now? A: Well, I’ve considered it a lot, for the last 20 years. Right now, we’re estranged. I live in one house, and he lives somewhere else. It’s been like that for a little over a year. What precipitated that living arrangement? Well, quite a lot of things. My son died about a year ago, and that was one of the things that came between us. I mean, he’s never been a real husband, as far as being with the kids. And there’s many issues. What do you know about the audiotape itself? Personally, I think it was deliberately done. [V. Stiviano] taped it in September of last year. So why would someone tape it and keep it? This is the way I see it: I can’t see anyone taping somebody unless they have a plan in mind, and I guess she did. Have you talked to your husband about this? No, we were in San Francisco for a playoff game when the whole thing flared up. Other than that, I haven’t really talked to him. I haven’t talked to him in maybe a week and a half, two weeks. What is his physical and mental state? I’ve been saying for the last year or so that he forgets things. He forgets people’s names, people he’s worked with for 20 years. I don’t know much about dementia, but it seems like his forgetting names, his forgetting things — he has different types of moods. Has he ever expressed racist views to you? I’ve never heard him use a racial slur in the time I’ve been married to him. When those tapes came out, I was disgusted. I was sick over it. I mean, I couldn’t believe it. Has he changed over the course of your marriage? Yes. In the last 20 years, he’s been more difficult, and just had different girlfriends, which I didn’t realize at that time because I was raising my kids. When you’re married to somebody and you’re involved with work and your children, and taking care of your parents, life is so complicated. And then all of a sudden, you realize that this is not going to work. This is not good. And I just felt that I had to get out of it somehow. And for the last 10 years, I’ve been going to different attorneys, talking to them. I’m a very strong person in business, very strong in life. But I guess I was weak at relationships. You say you haven’t talked to him recently, yet you were seen leaving a Los Angeles restaurant with him not long after the audiotape surfaced, right? That was the night after the audiotape was released. Andy Roeser, who was the team president, called me and said, “Shelly, I’m trying to convince Don to make a statement, and he won’t listen to me. Maybe you can talk to him.” The day before had been his 80th birthday, and we just didn’t even talk. I couldn’t talk to him. So Andy said, “Should we go out and try to talk to him?” So I suggested we eat at a place near the airport and try to talk to him. And that’s exactly what we did. We were just trying to talk him into making an apology, and I guess he was confused. He vacillated between saying, “O.K., what am I apologizing for?” and, “It was a private conversation, and I don’t even know why she taped our conversation.” He was confused. Andy took him home, and I went back to my house, and that was it. The N.B.A. placed Roeser on indefinite leave. Do you think that’s fair? I O.K.’d it when the league told me they had found somebody else. Have you talked to Roeser since then? We were supposed to meet in Pierce’s office, and he didn’t show up. I called him and said, “I have to know a few things.” And he said, “I’ll have my attorney call your attorney.” How would you describe Stiviano’s relationship with your husband? I didn’t even know there was any relationship for a while. And then she would come to the games, and she would sit across the court and blow kisses to him. Everybody saw it. I go, “What’s this all about?” I ask him, and he says, “She works for me; she drives me around.” This and that. And I started realizing it’s not just driving him around. I guess it was a relationship. Doc Rivers, the coach of the Clippers, recently said that it would be a “difficult situation” for the team if you were to retain ownership. What was your reaction to his comments? I didn’t hear anything about that. Why would that be? Most teams have owners who don’t maintain the team. They hire the general manager, but they don’t actually have much input. So why would it be difficult for me if I hired the right people? I’m very qualified. I take care of much of the business that we have. I’m a strong person. So I don’t think it would be difficult, any more than it would be if I were any one of the other 30 owners. Have you spoken with any other N.B.A. owners since your husband’s suspension was announced? No, I haven’t. But I often wonder: If the wife of one of the owners had done this, and if the roles were reversed, would they take the team away from the man? Is it something sexist? Is it the man’s club? The owners are afraid of their own issues. Because I’m sure if anybody goes into all their records, they have skeletons in their closets. They would probably like to defend Donald, because he’s one of the oldest owners. But I think they’re all afraid because of their players. They’re afraid to get involved because if one sticks up for him, then maybe the players will go against them. O’DONNELL: The situation here from a legal perspective is unprecedented. No professional sports league has ever terminated an owner’s interest involuntarily. And what Mark Cuban, the owner of the Dallas Mavericks, means when he refers to a “slippery slope” is that if they can do it to Shelly Sterling, they can do it to any other owner. And that invokes a precedent that could then be cited. I’m sure other owners have said things in private. We’ve had owners who have taken anti-civil rights stands on certain issues over the years. So is there dirty laundry? When the owners think about this in the quiet of their thoughts, and they have to render a vote, they have to think about the implications of it. So if you sue the N.B.A., would you depose other owners and their team personnel? O’DONNELL: I’d certainly be entitled to discovery. Any fair administrative process would allow us to get discovery. And I want to know a lot of different things about the records of the N.B.A. and what information they have about the conduct or misconduct of other owners that was not acted upon. The N.B.A. is as much at risk as Mr. Sterling to have this whole thing aired publicly. So it’s not risk-free for either side. To answer your question, of course I’ll ask for discovery. But it’s in everybody’s best interests to avoid Armageddon. Why are you pursuing this so aggressively? STERLING: The Clippers have been our team for 30-something years. I’ve been a very passionate fan. I went to the playoff game the other day, and I’m sitting up there in the box. The fans all below me — there were about eight rows — they were high-fiving me, telling me not to give up, telling me to fight for it. I get emails; I get texts. I mean, people have nothing against me. I didn’t do anything wrong. Why should I suffer and lose my team? I would like it to be left as a legacy to my family, and I’ve helped build it. I just can’t see me not owning it, or a piece of it. This interview has been condensed and edited.  This interview has been condensed and edited.    Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS