Advertisement By THOMAS GEORGE and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES When Northern Iowa took a timeout with only 10 seconds left and the team's coach, Eldon Miller, inserted Maurice Newby into the lineup, the Missouri Tigers recognized Miller's plan. The score was tied at 71-71. The task for Newby, a junior guard who had made two 3-point shots in 12 minutes of play, was to shoot if free. After the inbounds play, Missouri tried swarming the ball and then throwing hands, arms and elbows at Newby, but the Northern Iowa player was able to let the ball fly with two seconds left. As his rainbowlike 22-footer sank cleanly through the nets today, third-seeded Missouri was eliminated from the Southeast Regional, 74-71. The itsy-bitsy Northern Iowa Panthers, seeded 14th, upset the mighty Tigers of the Big Eight before a sellout crowd of 11,051 in Richmond Coliseum. And after the victory was secured, the Panthers used the court for a wild fist-pumping celebration. Next Foe: Minnesota ''I'm just glad it went in,'' Newby said of his shot. Miller said: ''There are no words to describe the feeling. The problem is putting the feeling aside and getting ready to play again.'' Advertisement Yes, Northern Iowa of the Association of Mid-Continent Universities - not Iowa but Northern Iowa from Cedar Falls - advanced to a Sunday game against Minnesota, which beat Texas-El Paso, 64-61. Advertisement And the Panthers did so because they played an effective helping defense, rebounded well, scored nine 3-pointers and got the big basket from Newby. Northern Iowa (23-8) had beaten Iowa of the Big Ten in the regular season, and the Panthers were indeed ready for prime time. Missouri was not. The Tigers, the nation's No. 1 team for a stretch of the regular season, had lost three of their last four games. They finished with a 26-6 record, after trailing by 42-31 at halftime and by as many as 15 points, with 5 minutes 28 seconds left. Stuggling From Tip-Off Doug Smith, a junior forward, who scored 20 points, fouled out with 6:46 left. Anthony Peeler, a sophomore guard who was averaging about 18 points a game, scored only 3 today, hitting 1 of 7 shots from the floor; he was benched at the start of the second half. Nathan Buntin (21 points) and Lee Coward (10 points) helped keep the Tigers close, but Missouri struggled from the tip and never quite meshed. ''We were flat,'' said Norm Stewart, the Tigers' coach, ''And when I say that, I don't take anything from their effort. We'd been struggling a little. No, not a little but quite a bit. Maybe we overachieved. Some of the problems we had we've encountered before and won ball games. We couldn't do that today.'' Syracuse 70, Coppin State 48 The Orangemen's Derrick Coleman grabbed 12 rebounds to become the top career rebounder since 1973, when the N.C.A.A. made freshmen eligible to compete and created a new classification for rebounding records. Coleman, with 1,516, surpassed Ralph Sampson, who had 1,511 rebounds in four years at Virginia.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Syracuse started fast and finished strong, building a 31-21 halftime lead. Coppin State hit only 9 of 31 shots from the field (29 percent) in the first half. The guards Larry Yarbray, Reggie Isaac and Derrick Orr were a combined 1 for 16 in the half, and Coleman played a role in their shooting miseries, often causing them to alter their shots when they drove to the basket. Advertisement Coppin State's press was expected to be a problem for the Orangemen, but Coleman, a 6-10 senior center, helped solve that, too, often helping the Syracuse guards to dribble the ball up the floor. Jim Boeheim, the Syracuse head coach, pulled his starters with two minutes left and the Orangemen ahead by 62-42. Syracuse was led by Stephen Thompson with 19 points. Larry Stewart scored 19 for Coppin State, which hit only 19 of its 64 shots in the game, only 29.7 percent. On Sunday, the Orangemen (25-6) will play Virginia. Minnesota 64, Texas-El Paso 61 With their overtime victory over Texas El-Paso, the Gophers showed how they have matured from being a team that would buckle in the closing seconds of a game. With 20 seconds left and Minnesota ahead by 60-59, Willie Burton hit two free throws. And after a Texas-El Paso miss, Melvin Newbern broke free for a lay-in that sealed the victory for the Big Ten team. Minnesota (21-8) led by 24-23 at halftime against the taller Miners (21-11), whose roster included Greg Foster, a 7-footer, and five other players 6-8 or taller. ''They're big as trees,'' Burton said. Virginia 75, Notre Dame 67 In the final game tonight, Virginia benefited from a strapping defense and a crisp, efficient offense. Notre Dame managed only 18 first-half points and trailed at halftime by 10 points. LaPhonso Ellis took only three shots in the half and finished with 2 points, although he played the entire half. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 17, 1990, on Page 1001047 of the National edition with the headline: N.C.A.A.: Southeast Regional;   Northern Iowa Stuns Missouri With 3-Pointer.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »