Advertisement 
Extra Bases  By                     
 TYLER KEPNER
 
MAY 24, 2014
 Manager John Gibbons sat in the Toronto Blue Jays’ dugout at Fenway Park last Tuesday and motioned toward the Green Monster, where the American League East standings are updated daily. “You look at that board there, and you see us in the middle,” Gibbons said. “In the past, you might have only seen that in the first week of the season. Usually, that’s the way it’s been for the last few years. But I think the division’s up for grabs.” By the end of the three-game series, the Blue Jays were on top, having used their bruising offense to sweep the Red Sox. Melky Cabrera homered twice in the series and had six hits, increasing his season total to 64, which ranked second in the majors through Friday. Batting after Jose Reyes in the order, Cabrera has sparked a lineup that easily leads the A.L. in extra-base hits. “He’s been tremendous at the top,” said Jose Bautista, the Blue Jays’ star right fielder. “Even when Reyes was out for a little bit, he was that rock up there at the top of the lineup, just getting on base constantly. That’s not easy to do when you’re not somebody that takes a lot of walks to begin with. He constantly puts the ball in play, hits the ball hard and gets base hits.” Advertisement This is how Cabrera looked for the San Francisco Giants in 2012, when he was the most valuable player of the All-Star Game while engaging in one of the most egregious cons in recent memory. Cabrera was found to have tested positive for elevated testosterone that August and served a 50-game suspension, though not before an associate created a fake website in a clumsy attempt to challenge the test. Advertisement This is old news, and all parties swiftly moved on: The Giants won the World Series without Cabrera; Major League Baseball, at Cabrera’s request, removed him from consideration for a batting title he otherwise would have won; and the Blue Jays signed him to a two-year, $16 million contract — theoretically more than he would have made without cheating, but less than he would have made had he not been caught. Now Cabrera is playing for a contract again, and playing very well, after a 2013 ruined by injuries. What does it all mean? “As his teammate,” starter R. A. Dickey said, “I feel like I have to take it at face value, and face value is that he’s been tested many times. I’ve even seen him tested a lot this year, and it hasn’t come back for anything. So I’d have to say that he served his penalty and he owned up to it — gave back his batting title, all that stuff, and he’s trying to do it the right way now. “He wasn’t healthy last year. The hope is that what we’re seeing now is authentically who he is. I’m certainly going to believe the best about him.” Cabrera, a Dominican native, has always been quiet and somewhat shy in public, and his interpreter was not available in Boston to conduct an interview. But Cabrera’s back says a lot about his journey. A tattoo with the M.L.B. logo, applied when he was still in the minors, adorns his shoulder blade. A scar on his lower back, along his spine, reveals the trauma of 2013. Cabrera, 29, struggled all season with leg injuries that defied explanation. Tests routinely came back negative. “They couldn’t find anything,” Gibbons said, “just normal wear and tear, so nobody knew what it was. Of course, all you’d hear is, ‘Well, the year before, he was on steroids, so maybe this is the aftereffect of that.’ But it shouldn’t affect you that much.” Advertisement Gibbons added: “He couldn’t run, man. Balls were dropping in. We talk about how much our pitching struggled last year, but, shoot, if there was a ball airborne out there, we weren’t getting it. And it finally got to the point we had to shut him down. So he’s rehabbing down in Florida, his back started hurting him and he went and got an M.R.I. — walnut-size tumor, right on his spine.” Cabrera told reporters this spring that he initially feared for his life. But the tumor was found to be benign, and now that he moves better, he hits better, too. Cabrera earned a degree of skepticism by the choices that led to his suspension, but Bautista said Cabrera deserved credit, not suspicion, for the way he was playing. “The only thing that he’s proving is that he’s healthy,” Bautista said. “I think he could have put up these types of numbers last year if he would have been healthy. It’s not something that surprises me. “I have known how good a player he was, and has been, since he was in the minor leagues, and I played against him when he was with the Yankees and I was with the Pirates. I know his work ethic. He busted his butt this off-season; I was there working out with him. I knew that going into this season and spring training, he was certainly prepared. That, coupled with being healthy and being a guy with a lot of ability, is a recipe for success.” The Blue Jays, who have not finished higher than fourth in the A.L. East since 2007, had the lowest starters’ earned run average in the division entering the weekend, at 3.85, led by the veteran Mark Buehrle, who is 8-1 with a 2.16 E.R.A.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But the offense, boosted by a better Cabrera, is their biggest strength. “It’s a good lineup,” Gibbons said. “We feel it’s as good as any in baseball, offensively. So we’ll see where that takes us.”  A Cavalcade of Casualties  The bad omens started for the Texas Rangers in January, when Derek Holland hurt his knee after his boxer, Wrigley, tripped him on the stairs at his home. Holland had microfracture surgery and has not pitched this season. The injuries have continued to pile up. Catcher Geovany Soto had knee surgery. Starter Matt Harrison has a displaced vertebra in his back. Starter Martin Perez had reconstructive elbow surgery. Second baseman Jurickson Profar tore a shoulder muscle in March, had a setback last week and will miss at least two more months. Then there is first baseman Prince Fielder, who is scheduled to undergo cervical spinal fusion this week, which would end his season. Advertisement “I haven’t been part of anything quite like this,” General Manager Jon Daniels said, adding later, “I think you try to plan all off-season to give yourself depth at certain spots, but there’s a limit to how many premium innings you’re going to lose and really replace, and a limit to how many key position players you can really replace.” The Rangers have hovered around .500, and Daniels said he was proud of the way the team had responded to adversity. But the Fielder injury particularly stings, because durability had been one of his attributes. Fielder missed only one game in the last five seasons before joining the Rangers in a trade from Detroit last November. Texas assumed $138 million in salary over seven years in that deal, but did not perform a physical examination on Fielder. Daniels said the team would not have detected the neck problem because the Rangers for now do not perform a cervical M.R.I. as part of their standard test. “There’s really nothing you can do about a lot of those,” Daniels said after listing several of the injuries. “We’re going to focus on the things that we can control and really review our processes.” One obvious candidate to replace Fielder as a power bat in the middle of the lineup is Kendrys Morales, who remains unsigned after turning down Seattle’s $14.1 million qualifying offer last winter. If a team waits until after the June 5-7 draft to sign Morales, who hit 23 home runs last season, it will not have to sacrifice a draft choice.  Throwback Power  Max Scherzer, the reigning A.L. Cy Young Award winner, is not the only elite Detroit Tiger facing free agency after the season. Designated hitter Victor Martinez, perhaps the quietest four-time All-Star in the majors, is also coming to the end of his contract and was leading the league in slugging percentage (.599) and was fifth in batting average (.323) through Friday. Perhaps more impressive is that Martinez has almost as many home runs (12) as strikeouts (13). Martinez led the league in at-bats per strikeout last season (9.8), but he still fanned 62 times to go with 14 home runs. Though Martinez is unlikely to keep up his pace, it is fun, anyway, to see how rare a feat it would be to have more home runs than strikeouts for a season. Just two players have done it since 1956, with a minimum of 20 homers: George Brett in 1980 and Barry Bonds in 2004. Years ago, it was more common. Joe DiMaggio had seven such seasons, Yogi Berra had five and the muscular Ted Kluszewki, the Cincinnati Reds slugger, did it four years in a row in the 1950s. A version of this article appears in print on May 25, 2014, on Page SP1 of the New York edition with the headline: The True Cabrera, So the Blue Jays Hope.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »