Advertisement By JERRY GARRETTMAY 24, 2014
 INDIANAPOLIS —  Kurt Busch, discussing why he was planning to race Sunday in the Indianapolis 500 and then in the 600-mile Nascar Sprint Cup event in North Carolina, recalled a week in 1997 “that was kind of my fork in the road.” “My career could have gone either way,” he said of the week he was offered rides in a stock car and in an open-wheel car. “I took the stock car path. I have no regrets about that. But now I get to sort of go back and take a look at what might have been down that other road.” Busch, then 18 and a freshman at the University of Arizona, was entered in a made-for-television stock car series, “Winter Heat,” based in Tucson. Busch distinguished himself in a class that included the future Cup drivers Greg Biffle, Ron Hornaday Jr. and Kevin Harvick. In three years, Busch was competing in Nascar’s elite divisions. By 2004, he was a champion. A couple of months ago, Busch, who has a regular ride with the car owner Gene Haas in Nascar this season, was offered the chance to drive for Andretti Autosport, one of the top teams in IndyCar racing, in Sunday’s 98th running of the Indianapolis 500. Advertisement “I love to have this chance,” Busch said last week. “It’s just so exciting to talk about it. It’s just still hard to put it all into words.” Advertisement To accept the challenge and maintain his commitment in Nascar, he had to overcome a number of logistical, personal and physical hurdles. Busch proved a quick study; he easily qualified 12th in the 500’s 33-car lineup — just 0.285 of a mile per hour slower than Ed Carpenter’s pole-winning 231.067 run. After the 500, which begins just after noon Eastern, Busch aims to fly in a carefully organized sequence of helicopters and private planes to his 600-mile Nascar nightcap, with minutes to spare before the 6 p.m. start. His tightly scripted program can be derailed by the slightest interruption — rain, crashes and, yes, even winning. Three drivers previously managed the double: John Andretti, Robby Gordon and Tony Stewart. “The double is America’s auto racing version of the Ironman, with the added obvious element of danger,” said Eddie Cheever, a former Indy 500 winner. “Kurt’s junkyard-dog mentality behind the wheel will serve him well Sunday.” But why even try? Busch, with 25 career victories, would seem to have little to prove. “I’m just a fan of all motor sports,” he said. “I’m a racer.” The Nascar driver Dale Earnhardt Jr., who has toyed with the IndyCar idea, said: “We all like to race. So I can understand his enjoyment. I can’t wait to watch and pull for him.” Earnhardt added: “He’s representing the entire sport. Whether he knows it or not, he’s got a lot of people, drivers, crew and just about everyone in the infield pulling for him to do well because he is representing all of us.” Jimmie Johnson, a six-time Nascar champion, has dreamed of doing the double, but his wife, Chandra, asked him not to. Advertisement “My desire to compete in the Indianapolis 500 has not diminished one bit,” Johnson said. “But I made a deal with my wife. So a deal’s a deal.” He added: “I’m so proud of Kurt. He’s doing an awesome job.” Precision is the key difference between Busch’s 230-plus-m.p.h. Dallara-Honda and his Chevrolet stock car, which averages about 185 m.p.h. on the same track.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “The Indy car demands a lot of respect,” Busch said. “You are on that razor-blade edge when you are out there driving. Everything is very precise. It’s almost like being a surgeon.” One tiny slip, and it’s easy to wind up in the wall, as he did Monday when he demolished his primary Indy car in a fiery practice crash. “I’m glad that I experienced it,” Busch said. “It might sound stupid, by saying that I’m glad I wrecked at 220 m.p.h.” Johnson said: “Finding a limit is something you need to do. It’s better to tear them up in practice than on race day.” Busch agreed. “Mistakes help you get to the next level in life,” he said. “That is how you advance: learning from your mistakes.” Busch walked away from that impact, he said, because of his rigorous training: a body-toning boot-camp-style regimen that includes running, cardio work, martial arts and even psychological exercises to master his fiery temperament. “It’s hard to show emotion in the car but not out of it,” Busch said. “On the body, the demands from driving both cars are the same. Upper-body strength is important in both. Core strength is what I have worked most on — to be able to use your core to not overexert your arms, or to have your legs cramp up.” For race weekend, he is bulking up with carbohydrates like a boxer before a bout. “I’m packing on a little extra weight knowing that I’m going to burn that all off on Sunday,” he said. Advertisement Asked if he had further IndyCar aspirations, Busch sighed and said, “Ask me Tuesday.” A version of this article appears in print on May 25, 2014, on Page SP6 of the New York edition with the headline: Busch Intends to Drive 1,100 Miles in a Day.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »