Advertisement By WILLIAM C. RHODEN and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES The wild, winding road to the Final Four, already filled with upsets and spine-tingling finishes, took a crazy and controversial turn tonight. Georgia Tech, a team that has specialized in heroic comebacks and last gasp victories this season, outdid itself tonight in defeating top-seeded Michigan State, 81-80, in overtime. But the shot that forced the overtime created the controversy. With Georgia Tech trailing by 75-73 with 6 seconds left in regulation, Kenny Anderson, the Yellow Jackets' outstanding freshman guard, raced downcourt and put in a leaning jumper that one official first called a winning 3-pointer. Officials Confer After a conference of officials at the scorers' table, the shot was ruled a 2-pointer because Anderson's foot was touching the 3-point line, making the score 75-75 and forcing the overtime. That ruling did not end the controversy, because television replays seemed to show that the final buzzer sounded before Anderson released his shot. Advertisement The clock at the Superdome, where the semifinals took place, does not show tenths of a second, unlike the clock at the Meadowlands, where, on Thursday night, Connecticut's Tate George released a shot with one-tenth of a second left that beat Clemson. Advertisement Dennis Scott, the Yellow Jackets' 6-foot-8-inch forward, hit a twisting off-balance shot with 8 seconds left to give Georgia Tech the victory. Scott hit his shot just 15 seconds after Steve Smith had put Michigan State ahead by 80-79 on a pair of foul shots with 23 seconds left. Suggestion From Heathcote Michigan State called timeout with 4 seconds left, but Ken Redfield's 30-foot heave hit the back of the rim and caromed out as the buzzer sounded. Jud Heathcote, the Michigan State coach, said, ''I think we won the game in regulation but lost it in overtime.'' Heathcote seemed resigned to the loss, saying that ''I don't know who I can appeal to.'' But the Spartans' coach added: ''In crucial games, I'm not sure we shouldn't be using the so-called instant replay. You've got an awful lot at stake here in a game like this. There should not be a mistake made by the officials on whether a shot beat the buzzer or didn't beat the buzzer.'' For his part, Anderson simply said: ''I definitely beat the buzzer. I don't know if it was a 2 or a 3, but I beat the buzzer.''  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Appointment With Minnesota No officials attended a news conference called after the game, and no statement was released. With the victory, Georgia Tech advances to the Southeast Regional final against Minnesota, which upset Syracuse in the earlier semifinal, 82-75. Lost in the controversy was the miss by Smith, the game's top scorer with 32 points, that opened the door for Georgia Tech. With the Spartans ahead, 75-73, with 6 seconds left in regulation, Smith missed the front end of a 1-and-1 free-throw situation, which led to Anderson's basket and a premature celebration by the Yellow Jackets. Advertisement Dwayne Stephens made a pair of foul shots with 23 seconds left, but Scott managed to get the ball down low and spin for the winning basket. Scott finished with 18 points.  Top-seeded Michigan State, which had won its last 10 games, finished at 28-6. Georgia Tech started out hot, building an 8-0 lead on 3-pointers by Anderson and Scott and a layup by Johnny McNeil, who finished with 12 points. Tech twice held 9-point leads before the Spartans fought back for a 31-30 lead on Mike Peplowski's 3-point play 3:26 before halftime. The Yellow Jackets led by 39-35 at intermission and went in front by 49-43 on Anderson's 17-footer with 14:33 left. The lead changed eight times down the stretch before Anderson sent the game into overtime. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 24, 1990, on Page 1001045 of the National edition with the headline: COLLEGE BASKETBALL: Southeast Regional;   Georgia Tech Edges Spartans in Overtime.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »