Advertisement By VIV BERNSTEINMAY 25, 2014
 CONCORD, N.C. —  The clock showed 3:17 p.m. when Kurt Busch’s No. 26 Honda crossed the finish line at Indianapolis Motor Speedway. He had just completed the Indianapolis 500, racing 500 miles at more than 220 miles per hour in a grueling event that left his back and hands aching. Most racers would call it a day after that. But Busch’s day had just begun. Moments later, he was on a golf cart that took him to a police car that drove him to a waiting helicopter. Busch headed directly to the executive terminal at Indianapolis International Airport, where he boarded a Cessna jet. And then he was racing again. Forty-nine minutes later, Busch was at Concord Regional Airport just outside Charlotte, N.C. Another helicopter awaited and he was off again for a five-mile flight to the infield at Charlotte Motor Speedway. He touched down on the long swath of grass on the front stretch about 4:53 p.m., the trip from track to track taking 1 hour 27 minutes. After all that, Busch strapped himself into the No. 41 Chevrolet for the Coca-Cola 600 to drive in the longest race of the Nascar Sprint Cup season. Advertisement Busch lost two pounds racing at the Indy 500 and knew he could lose as much as seven more in the 600, traveling at nearly 200 m.p.h. He took a liter and a half of fluid intravenously during the flight to rehydrate while drinking a mixture of B12, liquid oxygen drops, potassium, electrolytes, sugar, beet juice and water. He snacked on raisins and beef jerky and grabbed peanut butter and jelly sandwiches as he stood outside his racecar in Charlotte. He slept for 20 minutes. Imagine California Chrome running the Kentucky Derby in the afternoon and the Belmont Stakes at night. Or imagine competing in a triathlon and then doing another for laughs the same day. That is essentially what Busch did Sunday. Advertisement Racecar drivers call it the Double — competing in the Indianapolis 500 and the Coca-Cola 600 on the same day. Busch is one of four drivers to attempt it and the first since Robby Gordon in 2004. Tony Stewart was the only driver of the previous three to run all 1,100 miles without mechanical difficulties. Busch was angling to be the second after finishing sixth at Indianapolis. But he fell short of that goal, lasting 271 laps, or 406 miles, before his engine failed. He completed 906 miles in all. He had raced as high as fifth at Charlotte. “I was hoping to do 1,100 miles today; I can’t let what happened here dampen the mood of what happened in Indianapolis,” Busch said after climbing out of his racecar in the Cup garage. “Today is a memory I’ll have forever. “My hands are a little sore, my feet are a little sore just from working it, and over all, I can stand here with a smile knowing I gave it my all for six months trying to get to this point.” But why even try? “I’m a racer,” Busch said last Thursday, listing off the other drivers who had attempted the Double before. “Tony Stewart is a racer, Robby Gordon is a racer and John Andretti is a racer. He added: “I’m doing this for a lot of different reasons, but at the end of the day I think motor sports can use the shot in the arm to go, You know what, this is a guy that has never been in an Indy car. We want to watch that race then we want to follow him to Charlotte to see what he can do down there running that full 600 miles.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. First, though, Busch had to pull it off. And the logistics weren’t easy. Much of it was managed by his longtime girlfriend, Patricia Driscoll, the president of the Armed Forces Foundation, who used the Double as an opportunity to promote the nonprofit that provides services for members of the military and their families. Advertisement “The driving, though, is just driving, just get down to business and just do it,” said Andretti, who raced the Double in 1994. “For Kurt Busch, Tony Stewart, Robby Gordon, the other guys that have done it, it’s really just — people focus on the driving part of it — it’s really all the logistics that go along with it that really add to it that make it difficult.” The fans weren’t the only ones watching to see how Busch would pull this off. Drivers were following the Double, too. Many wanted Busch to make a statement about the talent level of Nascar drivers. “He’s representing the entire sport,” Dale Earnhardt Jr. had said. “Whether he knows it or not, he’s got a lot of people, drivers, crew and just about everyone on the infield pulling for him to do well because he is representing all of us.” Busch, not always a favorite among fans or drivers in Nascar, has gained new acceptance through this effort. In the black-and-white, good-vs.-evil, hero-and-villain casting of the Nascar garage, Busch has always been the bad guy. But now fans were applauding his grand entrance in advance of the Coca-Cola 600 on Sunday night, and drivers congratulated him as he sat backstage before driver introductions at Charlotte Motor Speedway. His Stewart-Haas Racing teammate Danica Patrick, once the darling of the Indy 500, gave him a hug and pat on the knee. Stewart, Busch’s teammate and boss, hugged him as well. It was a good showing for Busch and Nascar. And perhaps the beginning of something more. Would other drivers attempt it now, too? “I think so,” said the six-time Cup champion Jimmie Johnson, who considered competing in both races earlier in his career but has said he won’t try the Double now that he has children. “I feel like there’s been an open door there. There are always some challenges but it might. And I hope that it does. I think it’s great for motor sports to see this happen.” If any driver does it again, it may be Busch. “Would I do it again?” Busch said when he was done racing Sunday night. If the right teams allow him to try, he said, “I’d love to do it again.” Jerry Garrett contributed reporting from Indianapolis. A version of this article appears in print on May 26, 2014, on Page A1 of the New York edition with the headline: Big Travel Day? He Drove 906 Miles in 2 Circles.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »