Advertisement By ALEX YANNIS and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES The goaltending, the defense, the special teams, the offense - everything worked effectively for the Devils tonight in their 4-1 triumph over the Oilers at the Northlands Coliseum. With Peter Stastny playing his best game, from Chris Terreri, who allowed only a goal to Petr Klima, down to the last line, the Devils are suddenly playing with great confidence, and everyone attributes the confidence to Stastny. The impact Stastny has had on the Devils from the moment he stepped into the dressing room last week is similar to when Sean Burke arrived two years ago this month to lead the team to its first playoff berth. Contributions 'Unbelievable' ''It's unbelievable what he has done to this team in terms of confidence,'' Eric Weinrich, one of the younger members of the Devils, said about Stastny, who was acquired from Quebec at the trading deadline last week. ''He came in and took a leadership role from the start. It's amazing how players respond to a guy they respect, a guy who has been a star for years.'' Advertisement Stastny scored the first goal, won crucial face-offs at both ends of the ice and helped the penalty-killing unit keep the Oilers at bay during their three manpower advantages. Advertisement ''Stastny gives us a lot,'' Coach John Cunniff said after the game, in which Stastny scored his 29th goal of the season and was voted one of the game's three stars. ''He can play everywhere, he kills penalties, wins face-offs, and just brings confidence to the guys.'' #2 Goals for Shanahan Brendan Shanahan had two goals and John MacLean tallied the other for the Devils, who posted their sixth victory in their last eight games and solidified their second-place position in the Patrick Division. Shanahan, who had the last goal in the game in the 5-4 loss to the Flames in Calgary two nights ago, has been productive in recent games. With his two goals and the assist on MacLean's goal, Shanahan has 5 goals and 4 assists for 9 points in his five-game point-scoring streak. Shanahan showed plenty of persistence and courage on his first goal and displayed his deadly wrist shot on his second before MacLean sealed the victory with his 37th goal of the season.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 'Feeling Pretty Good' ''I've been feeling pretty good,'' Shanahan said after scoring his 26th and 27th goals of the season. ''I haven't been doing things any differently. It's just that I have a little more confidence.'' Burke, who was in goal in the first two games of the series this season against the Oilers, a 6-6 deadlock here Nov. 1 and a 2-2 deadlock in New Jersey Feb. 6, yielded the starting position in tonight's game to Terreri, who faced 18 shots in winning his fifth successive start. Terreri was hardly busy in the first period, as the Oilers had only four attempts against him, but he had to work twice as hard as he had the entire first period in the first 6 minutes of the second, when he faced seven shots. Unfortunately for Terreri, the first shot he faced in the second period sailed past him from the stick of Klima from close range on the right only 1 minute 19 seconds into the period, Klima's 27th goal of the season. Advertisement Terreri prevented the Oilers from extending their lead with heroic saves on Craig MacTavish and Adam Graves shortly afterward, inspiring the Devils to look forward and score the next two goals. Makes Most of a Rebound Shortly after MacLean's attempt over the falling Bill Ranford sailed over the crossbar, Stastny tied the score for the Devils from close range on the left by pouncing on the rebound of a shot by Bob Brooke, 10 minutes 6 seconds into the middle stanza. Shanahan's persistence paid off for his 26th goal of the season with 5:10 left in the second. Shanahan withstood the pushing and shoving of one of the Oilers and managed to poke the puck past Ranford as he was falling. The Devils started the third period on the power play and pinned the Oilers at their end of the ice, but Ranford held his ground and thwarted the Devils four times during the advantage. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 18, 1990, on Page 8008007 of the National edition with the headline: PRO HOCKEY;   Stasny Again Fires Devils to Victory.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »