Advertisement  AT what should have been a supreme moment of his life, Harold Connolly was embarrassed. He was standing on the winner's platform at the 1956 Olympics in Melbourne. Photographers were screaming at him to raise his arms above his head in the traditional gesture of victory. They grumbled when he raised only his right arm. Harold was stubborn, cranky, uncooperative, they thought, which was true. He also didn't want the world to see his left arm, damaged at birth, a twisted, dysfunctional arm four inches shorter than the arm that had just flung the hammer to an Olympic record. "The thought of being patronized made me sick," says Harold Connolly now. "I wanted to play by the rules, not rules adapted for me because I was disabled. My coming to the Special Olympics three years ago was strictly a quirk of fate, but now I think it was my calling all the time." Harold Connolly came to New York Wednesday on an educational mission: Sargent and Eunice Shriver, the founders and driving forces of the 23-year-old sports and training program for the mentally retarded, have taken exception to several columns about Ron Jones, a San Francisco recreation therapist and Special Olympics coach who has accused the organization of abandoning the most profoundly retarded in its quest for international expansion and major funding. Connolly and I had not seen each other in almost 25 years. The aloof, driven athlete, a master at psyching out rivals and snubbing the press, has become a friendly, thoughtful quasi-public man. He is 60 years old. Advertisement "I think you have to be selfish to be a world-class athlete," he said. "For more than 20 years my life revolved around throwing the hammer. I think I'm a better person now. Certainly a better father. I've mellowed, matured. Some of it's this job." Advertisement Connolly is the director of United States Chapters Programs. He oversees the management of the Special Olympics American franchises. It is a very big business now. On this day, a former physical education teacher, Janet Riley, who bears the title, assistant executive director for operations, New York City, shepherded us to two Special Olympics projects in Manhattan. At Coler Memorial Hospital, a long-term care facility on Roosevelt Island, we watched preternaturally cheerful recreation therapists wheel a dozen severely retarded children through a "baseball" game. According to Linda Dianto, Coler's director of activities, a training team from Special Olympics had inspired her staff by showing them that there could be sports activities even for those whose therapeutic scenarios might never end more dramatically than with a smile of recognition. The hospital will send a higher-functioning team, the Coler Cougars, to the Metro Special Olympics in May. At Public School 158 on the Upper East Side, a "unified" volleyball team performed a practice for the visitors. This is a fairly new Special Olympics concept, mixing the mildly retarded with the mainstream. Special Ed kids are socialized, Regular Ed kids are sensitized. A Special Olympics grant got the program started, although the city runs and staffs it. Riley hopes to start unified programs within corporations, mixed teams of say, "normal" stockbrokers and retarded messengers.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Connolly speaks easily these days about Special Olympics's "mission" to lead the retarded from the dark corners of inattention and shame, to "maximize" their potential, "normalize" their lives and make them feel good about themselves. There are few other gold-medal winners who can bring to such rhetoric so compelling a personal story. It is not a story he has often shared. Connolly was raised in working-class Brighton, outside Boston, and he remembers struggling to keep from being assigned to classes for the handicapped. In his senior year in high school, he managed to pass the football physical by keeping his crippled arm behind his back while a bored school doctor listened to his heart. Faced with the permission slip, the coach reluctantly allowed Harold to try out. He "went nuts" on the field, tackling everything that moved, often with his legs since his left arm didn't work. By the fourth game, he was a starter. He was a mediocre shot-putter at Boston College until his senior year. Trying to hurry up track practice to get a ride home, he retrieved the hammers and threw them back. He threw them farther than the hammer throwers. At the '56 Olympics, Harold met Olga Fikotova, the beautiful Czechoslovak gold medal discus thrower. It was a complicated international love story. They married, raised four children in California, divorced. Connolly later remarried, and had two more children with his present wife, Pat, a freelance track coach. After retiring from 30 years in the Santa Monica school system, Connolly answered an ad for Special Olympics. Connolly has been at Washington headquarters for three years now, and the job has made him think about himself. He can still see the look on the flight attendant's face 35 years ago as he tried, unsuccessfully, to get his carry-on bag up to the overhead bin. He was an Olympian with an arm that didn't work. "You could have been some disabled poster boy," I said. "What a role model." "I think about that," said Connolly. "But times were different, they didn't treat the disabled with dignity then. I couldn't stand to be treated differently. I wish I had been able to talk about my arm then. I guess I might have helped some people." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 13, 1991, on Page B00021 of the National edition with the headline: SPECIAL OLYMPICS: ROBERT LIPSYTE; At Last, Harold Connolly Raises Both Arms.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »