Advertisement By MICHAEL JANOFSKY For motivation, he needs to consider only his age and heritage. At 43, Mohamad Hadid will be one of the oldest athletes competing in the Albertville Olympics in February. He will have the further distinction of being the only athlete representing Jordan. While the combination may not be enough to assure him a medal in speed skiing, an Olympic demonstration sport for the first time, he is guessing that other Jordanians might benefit merely by his participation. "It was the combination of things, really," Hadid said the other day from his home in Aspen, Colo. "Maybe I can bring out a little attention for Jordan. There are a lot of young people in our part of the world who don't realize that you can go out and do these things. For me, it was just something else I needed to do, maybe another goal to set for myself while there's not much going on in the construction business." Hadid's father, a native Palestinian, worked for the United States Information Agency throughout the Middle East, then brought his wife and eight children to the United States in 1964, settling in Arlington, Va. Advertisement Mohamad, who was born in Nazareth, attended North Carolina State University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology before establishing a development company. By 1989, he said, he was a major partner in a chain of Ritz-Carlton Hotels. Later, he sold his interest in all of them except for one under construction in Aspen. The Background Issue Advertisement Along the way, he married, had two children, girls now aged 11 and 8, and always made it a point of showing that his ethnic background was not a disadvantage and should not be considered one. "A lot of people use background as a negative," Hadid said. "I've always tried to use it as a positive. Our company became the fourth-largest development company in the Washington area. To be there, we had to deal with a lot of Jewish people and Anglo-Saxons. In the beginning, there was resistance, as there would be with any new company. But then they would realize that they they could work with you, help you, even become partners with you. I found that as long as you do the right thing, people are willing to work with you." He found the same to be true of Franz Weber, an Austrian who was the world speed-ski champion for six years through 1985. Hadid and Weber became friends several years ago, when Hadid was only a downhiller and Weber was several years beyond his retirement as a competitor. When they learned in 1989 that speed skiing had been added to the Olympic program, Weber decided on a comeback and suggested that Hadid come along for the glide. Hadid agreed, and by last summer, after training several weeks in Chile and refining his technique in a Pasadena, Calif., wind tunnel, he declared himself ready to challenge at Albertville. While it would have been ideal to ski for the United States, his adoptive country, he knew that making its Olympic team would be virtually impossible. Instead, taking advantage of his dual citizenship, he petitioned the Jordan Olympic Committee, and Jordanian officials approved.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Weber, now a 35-year-old sports management consultant in Reno, once marveled at Hadid's ability in the downhill. When they first discussed the idea of converting, Hadid had been skiing for only four years. "Mohamad's quite an athlete," Weber said. "He's very determined, and he has a lot of courage. He knows fear but he also knows how to calculate it. He certainly won't do anything stupid." The Winning Time The winning margin at most major skiing events is generally hundredths of a second, and for some the first victory serves as a psychological breakthrough. It was for A. J. Kitt of Rochester, when he won a downhill World Cup event at Val d'Isere, France on Dec. 7. Advertisement But even though his winning time came on the same mountain to be used for the Olympic downhill, it does not necessarily give him any sort of advantage. In fact, Kitt cannot envision any downhill specialist performing well in Val d'Isere. The Olympic run, he said, is a slow, technically demanding course, perhaps better suited for a slalom skier. "I don't think any downhillers will do well on the course," he said recently. "It's not a good downhill; it's more a super-G course, more difficult. It will be a real struggle to ski fast, unless they change the course." Strengh in Hockey The United States is expected to have its strongest hockey team since 1980, but that first match, against Italy, might not prove it. Nearly two-thirds of the Italian team are players with experience in North America, including four who played in the National Hockey League -- Bob Manno (Vancouver, Toronto, Detroit), Frank Nigro (Toronto), Gaetano Orlando (Buffalo) and Roberto Romano (Pittsburgh, Boston) . . . The United States Olympic trials in speed skating conclude this weekend in West Allis, Wis., and at least six 1988 Olympians -- Bonnie Blair, Dan Jansen, Nick Thomez, Eric Flaim, Mary Docter and Peggy Clasen -- are certain to qualify for the team of 12 men and 8 women . . . Donna Weinbrecht of West Milford, N.J., continues her mastery of the World Cup freestyle ski circuit, keeping her the favorite for the gold medal in Albertville. After winning the opening event on the Olympic course in Tignes, France, earlier this month, she placed second in Zermatt, Switzerland, five days later and won the next competition in Piancavallo, Italy three days ago. She has one more event, in Morzine, France, before the tour's Christmas break. Hansjoerg Raffl and Norbert Huber of Italy, the favorites in the luge doubles at the Olympics, won their fourth consecutive World Cup race of the season on Tuesday and increased their World Cup lead to 80 points over Kurt Brugger and Wilfried Huber of Germany. In singles, Duncan Kennedy of the United States ranks second, just 1 point behind Marcus Prock of Austria. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 20, 1991, on Page B00018 of the National edition with the headline: OLYMPICS; Construction Was Slow, So . . .  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »