Advertisement By FILIP BONDY One run, six hits, and no Don Mattingly. That depressing line score added up to the wrong start on a long doubleheader evening. The Yankees fell yesterday, 5-1, to Detroit in a punchless first game, as club officials debated whether to put their star first baseman on the disabled list. Mattingly's absence from the lineup, due to a stiff back suffered stretching for a throw on a rainy Friday night, was felt immediately. The Yankees' crippled offense failed to trouble Detroit starter Mark Leiter during the team's fourth straight loss, its 15th loss in 19 games. Mattingly, the Yankee first baseman, didn't want to talk about his problems, and he certainly couldn't play. The Yankees' impatient captain stalked the trainer's room before yesterday's games, huddling with team officials. Then, he left for home. "He's got a kink in his back, and he thinks once he gets it out, he'll be fine," said Manager Stump Merrill. Advertisement At first, the Yankees' general manager, Gene Michael, was going to place Mattingly on the 15-day disabled list. After talking with the determined player, Michael decided to wait one more day before making an official roster move he did not want to make. Meanwhile, Torey Lovullo, a multipositional player batting .285 at Columbus of the International League, was recalled for the third time this season. He will be activated today, if Mattingly's injury is judged to be as serious as the Yankees suspected. Advertisement "We'll see if the back is still stiff tomorrow," said the team physician, Dr. Stuart Hershon. In the meantime, Hershon prescribed medication and an exercise program. Without Mattingly, and without ailing outfielders Jesse Barfield and Roberto Kelly, the Yankees' attack was lacking in both power and average. Kevin Maas, batting .224, started the first game in place of Mattingly at first base. Pat Sheridan, at .211, was the designated hitter. Together, they produced two of the Yankees' hits, but no runs or runs batted in. 'We Have No Offense' "Things could be better, with a third of our lineup out," Merrill said. "We have no offense. But last year, Maas stepped forward. Let's see who steps forward now." Mattingly, 30 years old, had missed 60 games last season and six more this year because of back problems. Barfield is already out for an indefinite period with a stress fracture of the left foot. Kelly's progress from his sprained right wrist continues to be slower than expected. Kelly said yesterday he was still "days" away, although he was now pulling the ball better in batting practice. The first game yesterday was no thriller, and ended sourly in the failure of reliever Lee Guetterman and the mental errors of shortstop Alvaro Espinoza.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Starter Scott Sanderson lasted seven-plus innings, striking out seven while giving up just three runs and five hits. He survived a shaky third inning, when he gave up a two-run home run to Lou Whitaker -- Whitaker's fourth homer in his last five games against the Yankees. Sanderson nearly yielded another two-run homer to Cecil Fielder in the same inning. Fielder was called out by third-base Umpire Chuck Meriwether on fan interference, but replays clearly showed that Yankee Hensley Meulens already missed Fielder's drive to left field before a fan in the stands grabbed for and deflected the ball. The Yankees finally scored a run off Leiter in the seventh inning, when Pat Kelly tripled and then scored on Bernie Williams's grounder to second base. But Guetterman relieved Sanderson with one on and nobody out in the eighth inning, immediately yielding three successive singles that eventually led to three runs. Twice, Espinoza tried to tag runners out going from second to third base and missed, with the bases loaded. Advertisement "I don't know what he's thinking," Merrill said. "Those balls have got to go home." Victory for Leiter For Leiter, the victory over his former team was pinstriped revenge. "I wanted to win as bad as I had any game," said Leiter (4-2), who gave up six hits, one run, and struck out seven batters in seven innings. "I was here last year and didn't get the opportunity." The victory was an easier task for Leiter without Mattingly at the plate. Mattingly was batting .303, with seven homers and 46 runs batted in. His .354 on-base percentage was best among the Yankee regulars. On Friday night, Yankee Manager Stump Merrill said the weather had much to do with Mattingly's problem. Yesterday, however, Merrill, would not blame the umpiring crew, headed by Rich Garcia, for the decision to play the aborted game. The start of the game was delayed for nearly four hours, and then again for more than an hour before it was postponed. "When you've got all these doubleheaders, you've got to try to get the game in," Merrill said. The Yankees face two more doubleheaders, today against Detroit and Tuesday against Kansas City. Maybe all without Mattingly. INSIDE PITCH The third-inning call by CHUCK MERIWETHER that nullified a home run by CECIL FIELDER might affect the American League home run race. Fielder entered yesterday's games with 32 home runs, just one more than JOSE CANSECO. . . . STUMP MERRILL, faced with a pitching shortage because of SCOTT KAMIENIECKI'S back problem and an avalanche of doubleheaders, said he was hopeful that ERIC PLUNK would return to pitch one of two games against Kansas City. Plunk started Friday night's rain-delayed game against Detroit, which was postponed after just two innings. The Yankees trailed the Tigers, 1-0, at the time. . . . Another DONALD -- TRUMP, not MATTINGLY -- flied out to left field in a between-games celebrity softball game. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 11, 1991, on Page 8008001 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Mattingly Hurting, So Are Yanks.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »