Advertisement By MURRAY CHASS and  One hundred fifteen years after George Bradley pitched the first one, a major league baseball committee last week defined, for the first time, a no-hitter. But while saying what a no-hitter is and what it is not, the committee did not offer any explanations for the sudden surge of such pitching masterpieces. With four weeks' worth of opportunities remaining, in only two seasons in the 90's pitchers have matched the number of no-hitters that were thrown in the 80's, using the committee's restrictive definition (13) or the broader definition that others still prefer (15). A no-hitter, the committee decided, is a game in which a pitcher or pitchers complete a game of nine or more innings without allowing a hit. "No one seems to be that strong in pitching, but no-hitters are popping up left and right," Ray Miller, the Pittsburgh Pirates' pitching coach, said. Bret Saberhagen of Kansas City, Dennis Martinez of Montreal, Wilson Alvarez of the Chicago White Sox, Tommy Greene of Philadelphia, Nolan Ryan of Texas and a committee of four Baltimore pitchers have pitched no-hitters this season, under any definition.  'Hard to Pinpoint' Advertisement Last year, seven (new definition) or nine (including performances of fewer than nine innings) no-hitters were pitched. In the 80's, 13 or 15 no-hitters were pitched. Advertisement "It's really stumped me," Roger Craig, manager of the San Francisco Giants, said when asked if he could explain the no-hit explosion. "I'm supposed to know something about pitching. To see these things happen is just unbelievable. It's hard to pinpoint what has happened. I don't know if it's the pitchers getting better or the hitters not being as good. You're seeing great pitchers pitching them, like Ryan, Martinez, Saberhagen. Then you see other pitchers pitch them whom you don't expect." Calling it "kind of a freak thing," Craig added: "As a pitching coach and ex-pitcher, you see a guy with good stuff and say on any given day, if everything is right, this guy can pitch a no-hitter. Now, it's happening. I had dinner with Sparky Anderson the other night and we were talking about it, but we didn't come up with any answers." Law of High Numbers No one else has either, at least no answers that are something other than speculation. But Tom House, pitching coach for the Texas Rangers, suggested the most novel idea. His centered on what he called the law of high numbers. "Over a certain number of years, there are going to be so many no-hitters per year," House said. "If that average has been less for 10 years, the likelihood increases for more no-hitters to occur in the next subset of years, a decade or whatever. That's the law of high numbers." The 80's, by any measurement, produced a below-average number of no-hitters. From 1900 through 1979, pitchers averaged 20 or 23 no-hitters per decade, depending on the definition. Furthermore, the two decades before the 80's produced a total of 65 (or 66) no-hitters. Thus, it would appear that pitchers of the 90's are benefiting from House's law of high numbers. A member of House's pitching staff is a good example of what he talked about. Nolan Ryan, who defined the no-hitter better than any committee, pitched four in the 70's but only one in the 80's. He has already pitched two in the 90's. "Ryan is the only one who can pitch a no-hitter any time he goes to the mound," Mark Connor, the Yankees' pitching coach, said. A Stymied Expert Advertisement Despite his status as an expert on no-hitters, Ryan could offer no explanation for the sudden increase. He acknowledged that he doesn't even have a very good idea why he pitches hitless games when he does. "I've had games where I've warmed up and everything was together, then had real bad games," the 44-year-old wonder related. "Other times, everything was terrible in the bullpen, I felt I had nothing going for me physically and then I pitched a no-hitter. My first no-hitter was that way." So apparently was the seventh and most recent. "I came in after his warm-up, and Bobby Valentine said, 'How does he look?' " House related. "I said, 'He's scuffling.' Then he goes out and strikes out 16 and pitches a no-hitter."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Ryan, who has also pitched 12 one-hitters and lost 5 no-hitters in the ninth inning, said he never says he thinks he can pitch a no-hitter and never feels secure with a hitless game until he gets the last out. "I never say it because a guy might bloop one or pop one," he said. "I never feel comfortable about it until I get the last out. Some of my better games were one-hitters or two-hitters. Everything has to fall into place for it to happen." Confusing the Matter The committee for statistical accuracy produced the definition of a no-hitter in response to inquiries about Mark Gardner's performance for Montreal six weeks ago, in which he allowed no hits for nine innings but gave up two in the 10th. The committee, however, raised more questions than it answered with its definition. For example, the committee ruled that a rain-shortened game cannot be a no-hitter. That means a pitcher can receive credit for a complete game and a shutout in, say, a six-inning 3-0 game, but not for a no-hitter. At least one of the reasons the committee opted to exclude rain-shortened games was that no-hitters are often lost in the late innings. It seems that even more shutouts and complete games are lost in late innings, but then, the committee wasn't asked to define shutout and complete game. Fortunately. The committee also eliminated the asterisk that never existed next to Roger Maris's home run record. In so doing, it seemed to duplicate the work of another committee that acted 23 years ago, as cited in the Macmillan Baseball Encyclopedia. But Commissioner Fay Vincent and other members of the current committee said the 1968 committee was not official, so its action carried no weight. Advertisement "Nobody believed it was done until we did it formally and announced it," Vincent said. Curiously, the Macmillan encyclopedia is licensed by major league baseball (it probably won't be for long, given the disputes between the two sides), and the appearance of the decisions of the 1968 committee in the book would seem to indicate that major league baseball endorses them. Not so. "I don't think we can be responsible for everything done by everybody we license," the commissioner said. Why Is Snyder Smiling? The 12th-inning single that drove in the winning run for Toronto against Baltimore last Monday might have been the most satisfying time at bat Cory Snyder has had all year. Snyder, once a future star of the Cleveland Indians, has lived through a tormented three seasons with the Indians, the Chicago White Sox and the Blue Jays. In his first three years in the majors, Snyder averaged 28 home runs and 75 runs batted in and had a pair of .272 batting averages. In the next two seasons, he batted .215 and .233 and averaged 16 home runs and 57 r.b.i. His career continued to deteriorate this season. Playing for the White Sox, he batted .188, hit three home runs and knocked in 11 runs in 50 games. Traded to the Blue Jays July 14, he batted .111 with no home runs and four r.b.i. in 14 games before they sent him to the minor leagues Aug. 15. He returned last Sunday. "Going down was great," said Snyder, who hit six home runs and drove in 17 runs in 17 games. "I needed to play every day. In Chicago, I played every day in spring training. We got to the season and they started platooning me, which is a role I've never done and I didn't adapt to it well. I came over here and it was the same thing." That was the problem this year. What about the previous two years? "I hurt my back in 1989 and it got me mentally," the 28-year-old Snyder said. "I started messing with my swing. You get to the point where I got to make the whole season in one at-bat, one game. I didn't know how to handle it because I never had been hurt before. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 8, 1991, on Page 8008009 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; So Many No-Hitters, So Few Reasons Why.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »