Advertisement By THOMAS GEORGE Sam Wyche will not coach the Cincinnati Bengals in 1992, and his departure is as controversial as the style that marked his eight seasons as their coach. The Bengals' general manager, Mike Brown, said yesterday that Wyche had resigned after a morning meeting that reportedly lasted nearly two hours. Wyche said later that he did not resign but was dismissed. Wyche reportedly had two years remaining on his contract with the club obligated to pay him $1 million if he was dismissed. One Super Bowl Visit "I was simply fired by Mike Brown at a meeting today," Wyche said in a statement released by his lawyers. "I have no idea why the Bengals have chosen to announce this as my decision to leave." Advertisement Wyche led Cincinnati in 1989 to Super Bowl XXIII, where the Bengals lost, 20-16, to the San Francisco 49ers. He won two American Conference Central Division crowns and was regarded as an offensive innovator credited with popularizing the no-huddle offense. He had a 61-66 regular-season record with the Bengals and a 3-2 playoff record. Advertisement The Bengals were 3-13 this season, including an 0-8 start, and suffered their most losses ever in a season. It was also a taxing year for Wyche even before the season began. The club's founder and general manager, Paul Brown, who had hired him, died. "I'm shocked, at a loss for words," said Bengals quarterback Boomer Esiason of Wyche's departure. "I did not expect this."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Reggie Williams, a former Bengals linebacker who is the general manager of the New York/New Jersey Knights in the World League of American Football, said: "I played for Sam for six years and I have tremendous respect for his innovative approach to football. What always impressed me most about Sam was the man off the field who was viewed as a multi-layered character. When I was on the Cincinnati City Council, I saw the unusual compassion he had for the people suffering, the people on the rocks in Cincinnati. He made life a little softer for them."  Raised Eyebrows Off Field "Home Made" was Wyche's personal effort to make a difference in Cincinnati by helping agencies obtain funds along with food and clothing for the homeless. Wyche was controversial, however, in other areas, speaking out against female reporters in the locker room and frequently criticizing the National Football League on its locker room policies, its officiating and its rules barring celebrations for players after scoring touchdowns. The difficult 1991 season appeared to take its toll on Wyche, who during the season said that winning had become all too important in the N.F.L. and that there was "tennis and golf to be played." "I don't think there was any question that some Bengals felt Sam was becoming too sidetracked," Williams said. "His comments about winning startled me, because it was not the Sam Wyche I knew. Coaches demand that their players be focused and say that when your mind wanders you hurt your chances to win. I thought the comments about winning was a psychological ploy for his team, at first, and then I thought maybe he was losing some of his zest; he operates with such an emotional overload." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 25, 1991, on Page 1001041 of the National edition with the headline: FOOTBALL; Bengals, Wyche Part Company.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »