Advertisement By MURRAY CHASS and  After offering a remarkable display of their hitting, pitching and fielding talents today, the Los Angeles Dodgers headed home to continue their pursuit of the National League West championship. Based on their play today, that's exactly where they'll be when the playoffs begin next month -- at home. The Atlanta Braves, the league's No. 1 surprise this season, delighted their chanting, tomahawk-waving, drum-beating fans by blasting the Dodgers, 9-1, taking the critical series, two games to one, and building a one-and-one-half-game lead over the Dodgers. The Dodgers, for their part, showed the 45,541 fans at Atlanta-Fulton County Stadium a variety of shortcomings: *Hitting. They collected only four hits against 21-year-old Steve Avery, had only three batters bat in each of the first six innings and only three over the minimum 27 for the game. They didn't get a runner to second base until the ninth, when they scored their run. *Pitching. Ramon Martinez, ostensibly their No. 1 starter, was battered for five runs in the first inning, the last four on Sid Bream's grand slam, and was knocked out after walking the first two batters in the third. Advertisement *Fielding. They committed three errors that produced the Braves' last three runs and they made another errant play in the pivotal first inning that was generously scored as a single. Advertisement Was this game an aberration or could it be an omen of losses to come? "We're too good for that," Darryl Strawberry said, scoffing at the idea that their performance could carry over. Gary Carter suggested that over the course of the season a team will have "one or two" games like this. But he acknowledged, "The timing wasn't good at all."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The timing was propitious for the Braves because they must go on the road while the Dodgers play at home as they begin the final three weeks of the season. Before the contenders meet again next weekend in Los Angeles, the Braves have two games each at San Francisco and San Diego while the Dodgers have a pair of two-game series at home against Cincinnati and Houston. "The Dodgers are tough at home so we have to have a great road trip," said David Justice, whose bloop "single" that Juan Samuel dropped in short-right field contributed to the first-inning burst. The Dodgers, however, have to be concerned about their pitching, the strength of their team, because Martinez lasted only 14 batters today and Tim Belcher did likewise the day before. Martinez presents an especially troubling circumstance because his best pitching is well behind him. Before the All-Star Game break, he compiled a 12-3 record and a 2.54 earned run average. Since the break, he has a 4-8 record and a 4.37 e.r.a. Avery, on the other hand, gained his 16th victory against eight defeats as he extended his career (two-year) mastery over the Dodgers. In five starts, all of which the Braves have won, the young left-hander has a 4-0 record and a 1.23 e.r.a. "It's hard to explain," Avery said about his success against the Dodgers. "Sometimes you just find a team you match up well against." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 16, 1991, on Page C00003 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; The Dodgers Go South As Braves Go Up 1 1/2.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »