Advertisement 

      By JEFF Z. KLEIN

JUNE 24, 2014
 
Join us here as we cover every match of the World Cup with live analysis, photos and graphics.
 There was a lot on the line in the Group F finale between Argentina and Nigeria in Porto Alegre, but in the end both teams went through to the knockout phase.   It wound up 3-2 for Argentina, a match that could fairly be called both the Lionel Messi Show and the Ahmed Musa Show. Each player scored twice, turning in superb performances.  Messi needed only two minutes 26 seconds to tally, powering home the rebound of a shot that rang off the Nigerian post. But only 1:20 later, Musa blasted home a shot at the other end, and it was 1-1.  Messi struck again with a lovely free kick over the wall and under the crossbar a minute into first-half stoppage time. But just two minutes into the second half, Musa countered once more. He accepted a relay, burst into the Argentina box and slotted the ball home.  The deciding goal came shortly after that, in the 50th minute, when Argentina defender Marcos Rojo deflected a corner kick in off his knee. That closed the scoring at 3-2.  The Albicelestes, playing in a stadium packed with Argentine fans, started the match certain of advancing to the knockout stage. To advance, the Super Eagles needed either a point vs. Argentina, or for Iran to fail to beat Bosnia and Herzegovina in Salvador. With Bosnia defeating Iran by 3-1, Nigeria went through.  In the next round, Argentina and Nigeria will face France, Ecuador, Switzerland or Honduras, depending on the outcome of the Group E matches being played later this afternoon. Full story Â»   Messi rockets it into the top shelf off a rebound! Di Maria had just struck the post — and who else is there but Messi! 1-0 already for Argentina!    They come right back down the field on the ensuing kickoff, and Musa bangs it to the far post! 1-1 already! Incredible start! Remarkable how many times teams in this #WorldCup have been scored on and then struck VERY quickly back. Stats anyone? — Christopher Clarey (@christophclarey) June 25, 2014  Omeruo trips Messi, and it’s another free kick — this time from about 25 yards away. Messi sets up … Enyeama screams out directions to the wall … and … GOAL GOAL GOAL! Messi free kick over the nigerian wall and he now has 4 goals in three games in this World Cup — Christopher Clarey (@christophclarey) June 25, 2014  Reports of Lionel Messi's demise have been greatly exaggerated. — Naila-Jean Meyers (@NailaJeanMeyers) June 25, 2014  Musa, a minute after the second half begins! He scores his second goal! It’s 2-2!    Another one! Off a corner, and then off Rojo’s shin! It’s 3-2 now for Argentina! Yeah, he knew nothing about that — hit his knee. But record book doesn't say *-hit player by accident. — Andrew Das (@AndrewDasNYT) June 25, 2014  Argentina is considered the second favorite in the tournament, after Brazil, but in both its victories it required rescuing by goals by the incomparable Lionel Messi.  One of these games the Argentines are going to have to play well even if he does not.  
Nigeria was improved in its second game, particularly in defense. The team will try to lock down Argentina they same way it did to Bosnia.  Argentina has clinched advancement, and will top the group with a win or draw. 
Nigeria will also advance, unless it loses and Iran beats Bosnia, in which case tie breakers will come into play.  Advertisement