Advertisement By GERALD ESKENAZI Officials of FIFA, the international governing body for soccer, are expected to make an inspection tour of Yankee Stadium tomorrow to determine if the ball park is acceptable as a possible site for World Cup games in 1994. . . . Fame isn't always fleeting: JOHNNY PETRAGLIA , a hall of fame bowler, has a new honor -- successor to Gov. JIM FLORIO as grand marshall of the Columbus Day Parade in New Brunswick, N.J. The 44-year-old Petraglia, who was born in Brooklyn, made his mark as a bowler while living in New Jersey, where he also was voted to that state's hall of fame. ERNIE HARWELL is ending his career as the voice of the Detroit Tigers, which has spanned 32 seasons. SAL MARCHIANO , the broadcaster, describes Harwell's style as "honey-combed, gentle and reverential toward baseball." Harwell has been selected for the American Sportscasters Association Hall of Fame. His first big-league gig was with the Brooklyn Dodgers after he was actually traded from the Atlanta Crackers in exchange for a minor league manager in 1948. . . . And noshers at the Roxy Deli on Broadway and West 47th Street have voted JOE DiMAGGIO as America's greatest pop legend over JAMES DEAN . MARILYN MONROE finished third. If JARROD BUNCH , the Giants' top draft choice, makes it big, then early editions of this year's news media guide could be worth some money. For Bunch's picture has been transposed with that of CLARENCE JONES , the No. 4 draft pick. Bunch is a running back, Jones a tackle. According to the Giants' news media services director, ED CROKE , the pictures were properly laid out, "but a printer dropped the plates on the floor, and then put them back on the wrong pages." Later editions caught the error. Because of an editing error, a brief report yesterday in the Sidelines column of SportsMonday referred incorrectly to an inspection tour of Yankee Stadium to determine its suitability for soccer. The inspection is to be made Wednesday by consultants to World Cup USA 1994. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 12, 1991, on Page C00002 of the National edition with the headline: SIDELINES: ETCETERA; 1994 World Cup: Take the A Train?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »