Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 15, 2014
 Marcel Hirscher of Austria clinched his third straight overall World Cup title on Saturday in Lenzerheide, Switzerland, but could not prevent Ted Ligety from winning his fifth season-long giant slalom trophy. Hirscher completed Austria’s first overall title double since 2002, after Anna Fenninger clinched the women’s title. He is the first man to win three straight overall titles since the American Phil Mahre completed the feat in 1983. Still, Ligety seized the discipline title by winning the race by just 0.03 of a second to tie Hirscher on points. Ligety, who won an Olympic gold medal for the United States in giant slalom, took the World Cup title on a tiebreaker with five race wins this season against Hirscher’s two. Advertisement Ligety had a two-run combined time of 2 minutes 15.63 seconds, edging Alexis Pinturault of France. Felix Neureuther of Germany was third. Advertisement Mikaela Shiffrin, the Olympic champion, was 1.44 seconds faster than any rival in one of the longest women’s slaloms in World Cup history. She had a two-run combined time of 2:04.54. Frida Hansdotter of Sweden was second. Marlies Schild of Austria was third, trailing Shiffrin by 1.66 seconds. SWEDE AND SWISS WIN  Victor Oehling Norberg of Sweden won the freestyle ski cross World Cup in Are, Sweden, and Fanny Smith of Switzerland won the women’s race. Oehling Norberg’s first win of the season lifted him to the top of the ski cross standings, at 445 points. Smith took her win and third successive podium in a snowy final.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. MALTAIS EDGES JACOBELLIS Dominique Maltais of Canada capped her snowboard cross World Cup title by winning the final of race of the season in La Molina, Spain, and Paul Berg of Germany beat the Olympic silver medalist Nikolay Olyunin. Maltais overtook and then held off the American Lindsey Jacobellis to win the women’s final. NORWEGIANS LEAD SKIATHLON Therese Johaug took a big step toward securing the overall cross-country World Cup title by beating her Norwegian teammate Marit Bjorgen to win a 15-kilometer skiathlon race in Falun, Sweden. The result means Johaug will start 15 seconds ahead of Bjorgen in Sunday’s 10-kilometer pursuit, the final event of the three-race World Cup finals, which will decide the overall winner. WATABE WINS NORDIC COMBINED Akito Watabe of Japan won a Nordic combined World Cup ahead of the Olympic gold medalist Joergen Graabak of Norway and Alessandro Pittin of Italy. Advertisement Watabe earned 127.4 points after ranking second in the jump and fourth in the 10-kilometer cross-country ski race. Graabak won the race; Pittin finished 17th in the jump and second in the race. CANADIAN TOPS JUNIOR WORLDS Nam Nguyen of Canada has won a gold medal at the world junior figure skating championships in Sofia, Bulgaria, beating Adian Pitkeev of Russia. The American Nathan Chen took bronze. Nguyen, 15, landed two triple axels in a clean long program to win with 217.06 points over all. NORWEGIAN WINS BIATHLON Johannes Thingnes Bo of Norway earned his second straight biathlon World Cup victory in a 10-kilometer sprint race in Kontiolahti, Finland, and Lowell Bailey of the United States earned his first career podium finish, coming in third. Kaisa Makarainen of Finland won the women’s 7.5-kilometer sprint, beating the Norwegian Tora Berger by 6.2 seconds. A version of this article appears in print on March 16, 2014, on Page SP10 of the New York edition with the headline: Hirscher Wins Overall Title.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »