Advertisement By PHIL BERGER and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES Charles Oakley moved laterally a foot or so behind the foul line, catching the ball and shooting it while Paul Silas, one of the Knicks' assistant coaches, kibitzed with him. Oakley hit 10 jump shots in a row. Then, after Patrick Ewing and Eddie Lee Wilkins took their turns launching shots, he stepped up again and, moving in an arc 12 to 15 feet along the right side of the floor, made 15 of his next 20 undefended jumpers. The Knicks' 6-foot-9-inch, 245-pound power forward was back at practice with a Knick team that has been staggering since he fractured a bone in his left hand on March 20 against the Orlando Magic. New York, which lost 11 of 17 games while Oakley was recovering from his injury, will be the underdog in the opening-round three-of-five game playoff series against the Celtics that starts Thursday night in Boston. Against the tall and physical Celtics, the Knicks are in real need of a player like Oakley. While his shooting touch appeared relatively intact in the 90-minute closed workout here today - in the regular season, he was the Knicks' second-leading scorer with an average of 14.6 points per game - shooting is not what Coach Stu Jackson is looking for from Oakley. Advertisement 'Good Defense, Rebounding' ''His area of focus,'' Jackson said of Oakley, ''is good defense, rebounding and looking to run the floor.'' Advertisement Because reporters were not allowed to watch the team scrimmage, it was impossible to determine how well Oakley is performing off the boards. In the past, Oakley has been the blue-collar Knick, drawing tough defensive assignments like Charles Barkley of the Philadelphia 76ers while working hard off the backboards. He has been particularly successful on the offensive boards. Even though Oakley played only 61 games of the 82-game regular-season schedule, he still ended up with more offensive rebounds (258) than Ewing (235), who led the team in rebounding, largely because of Oakley's late-season absence. In today's workout, Oakley wore a soft cast on his left hand, but afterward he said his ''hand is in really good shape.'' ''I'm running well, and it was a good practice,'' he added. Oakley, who shoots with his right hand, said he was not favoring the left hand, or thinking about it. ''I'm thinking about the Boston Celtics,'' he said.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Coach Is Pleased He will practice again Wednesday and then fly with the team to Boston. Jackson said he would not decide whether to start Oakley until just before the game. But clearly the coach was cheered by Oakley's return. ''He went the full practice,'' Jackson said. ''His timing was a little off and sometimes he forgets there's a splint on his hand, but by and large we're going to get more rebounds with him than without him.'' Jackson said that Oakley appeared to have the stamina for the playoffs and credited that to a regimen of weight lifting and stationary bicycle work the player undertook while he was injured. ''The only danger,'' Jackson said, ''is for Charles to expect too much from himself, especially offensively.'' Advertisement On Monday, Oakley had his hand X-rayed and examined by Dr. Susan Craig, a surgeon who is the wife of the Knicks' team physician, Dr. Norman Scott. Knick officials said that while the hand was clinically healed, the fracture was still visible on the X-rays. ''The fact is,'' Jackson said of Oakley, ''he is playing under some risk and could re-injure the hand.'' The 26-year-old Oakley, who played college basketball at Virginia Union, started his pro career with the Chicago Bulls in the 1985-86 season. On June 27, 1988, Oakley was traded to New York for Bill Cartwright. Last season, his first with the Knicks, he averaged 12.9 points and more than 10 rebounds a game. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 25, 1990, on Page A00023 of the National edition with the headline: As Oakley Practices, Knicks' Spirits Lift.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »