Advertisement Supported by Brewers 6, Yankees 5 By David Waldstein MILWAUKEE — The thrill of putting a dent in Francisco Rodriguez’s previously unblemished record did not last very long. After being down to their final strike Sunday, the Yankees extended the game with a surprising home run from Mark Teixeira, sending the last game of this exhausting trip to the bottom of the ninth. But there, with a capacity crowd providing a pulsating backdrop, a couple of hole-seeking ground balls found their way past Yankee defenders and the Milwaukee Brewers recovered from Rodriguez’s first blown save of the season to win the game, 6-5, in the bottom of the ninth. After hitting the home run, Teixeira, who turned 34 a month ago, jogged slowly around the bases. He said his legs felt tired from being on the basepaths so much during this six-game trip. He even mentioned to teammate Carlos Beltran after the game that it felt as if he had two concrete blocks on his feet. And it’s only May 11. “My legs aren’t feeling too good right now,” Teixeira said. “I’m fine. I’m just tired.” Meanwhile, the left-hander C. C. Sabathia developed swelling in his right knee — the same knee that required surgery four years ago — after Saturday’s game and was placed on the 15-day disabled list with inflammation.  The Yankees have already lost Ivan Nova for the season with an elbow injury and have Michael Pineda on the disabled list with a muscle strain.  So after Sunday’s loss, which concluded their Anaheim/Milwaukee trip at 3-3, they hobbled back to New York, where they will face the Mets for a two-game series at Yankee Stadium followed by a two-game series at Citi Field. It will be Derek Jeter’s last regular-season Subway Series. That is certainly good for the Mets, since Jeter will carry a .368 batting average against them into the series. In 84 games against the Mets, Jeter has 13 home runs, 66 runs scored, 43 runs batted in and a .421 on-base percentage. That is why he is rather fond of the series. “It’s always fun,” Jeter said of the interborough matchup. “It’s fun because the atmosphere is fun, the fans get into it. So, therefore, it’s exciting for us as players, and we look forward to it.”  The Yankees are expected to start two of their only remaining active members of the original rotation, Hiroki Kuroda and Masahiro Tanaka, on Monday and Wednesday. Vidal Nuno and probably Alfredo Aceves are expected to start the other two games. David Phelps is the other pitcher who has been thrust into the rotation as the injuries to the pitching staff have piled up. He started Sunday and did not have his best stuff. He allowed the leadoff hitter to reach base in five of the six innings he pitched, squandered a three-run lead and was called for balk. The Brewers led, 5-3, after six innings, but the Yankees drew to a run behind in the seventh. Still, with Rodriguez on the mound with a lead in the ninth, that had meant certain victory this season. Jeter, who grounded out to lead off the inning, got a standing ovation as he returned to the dugout in his final regular-season game in Milwaukee. Rodriguez then got Jacoby Ellsbury to line out, bringing Teixeira to the plate. Rodriguez did not have a blown save in 15 attempts this season. He had not allowed a run over 19 innings, and with a full count on Teixeira, it seemed as if save No. 16 was all but secure. But Teixeira went down and got a changeup and sent it into the second deck in right field for his seventh homer of the season. “He threw me a lot of good pitches in that at-bat and I was just battling,” Teixeira said. “He threw me a couple of curveballs, a couple of fastballs, a couple of changeups, and all three are in play. I knew, 3-2, he could throw any of those pitches. I just stayed on a changeup and hit it good.” But when he returned to first base, things changed rapidly. With one out in the bottom of the ninth, Rickie Weeks hit a double off Adam Warren that bounced over first base and ricocheted off the retaining wall.  “Rickie Weeks hits a broken-bat, off-the-end, down the line and you go, ‘Uh oh, this could turn really quickly,’ ” Teixeira said. “We were feeling really good about ourselves for just a few minutes there. But that’s baseball.” Weeks went to third on a wild pitch, and one out later, Mark Reynolds, who played for the Yankees last year, hit a ground-ball single through the hole on the left side of the Yankees’ infield against a defensive shift that did not shift quite enough.  “Talk about it’s a game of inches,” Manager Joe Girardi said. “We were a few feet off today.”  As it turned out, a few concrete feet.   Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS