Commissioner Roger Goodell has said Â that fans are behind the plan to expand the season to 18 games. He has cited their dissatisfaction with the quality of preseason play, and he said they simply  “want more football.”  (Or it could be that  fans don’t want to pay full price for mediocre preseason games  as part of their season tickets.) Despite Goodell’s assertion, there doesn’t seem to be Â momentum among fans — and certainly not among players — to add two regular-season games. But there is momentum to brainstorm about ideas for adjusting the season in a way that could bridge the gap in the labor dispute. Tom Brady’s agent, Don Yee, recently said he would prefer an 18-game season with a limit of 16 games per player. Doug Drinen of  Pro-Football-Reference.com had a similar thought, and heÂ fleshed it out Â in a blog post.  Let’s talk about the main issue with lengthening the schedule: injuries and player safety. Not only would this plan keep injuries from increasing, it might possibly even decrease injuries by allowing players to sit out games with borderline injuries (concussions in particular) that could be aggravated if the player comes back too soon. You’ve got some interesting strategical decisions. Do you sit your star early in the season so that he’ll be eligible for the stretch run, or do you save his rest games for injury recovery and hope you’re not forced to sit him in a meaningful late-season game? The strategy would be compelling. One of our readers submitted a similar proposal back in June. Mike Florio of ProFootballTalk.com says the plan is unrealistic andÂ supports a 17-game season, with each team playing a game at a neutral site (and with three preseason games instead of four). Seventeen games may wind up being the final compromise in the negotiations, but a plan to limit individuals to 16 games (quarterbacks and punters and kickers could be exempt) may still have merit. Â And in a 17-game season, maybe it wouldn’t cause as much disruption as feared. Many players already miss at least one game in a season, so the number of healthy players who would have to sit for a game wouldn’t be Â that large. Extra point: Goodell says you want fewer preseason games and more regular-season games. Is he right? The New York Times will report on the Giants and Jets throughout the season. You can also find links to coverage from around the league, tips for your fantasy football team and discussion with other football fans. 
			The content on the Fifth Down blog is moving to the pro football page on nytimes.com.Read more… 
			The Jets receiver became a critic of the game and its role in American society. But the decision to walk away was also personal.Read more… 
			John Idzik, the general manager of the Jets, will not retain Scott Cohen, the assistant general manager. Ari Nissim, another high-ranking executive, also will depart.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, answers questions from readers.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, will answer questions from readers.Read more… Follow Advertisement