Advertisement By ALEX YANNIS The Devils and the Capitals are concerned because each team has given up a total of 10 goals in the first two games of their Patrick Division playoff series. The coaches, John Cunniff of the Devils and Terry Murray of the Capitals, whose teams split the first two games of the series at Byrne Meadowlands Arena, preach defense. They both believe it is the part of the game that brings success, especially in the playoffs. Players and coaches from both sides said that when the series resumes tonight in Landover, Md., they must revert to the tight defensive style both employed most of the season. Defense Sparked Strong Finish ''I really believe that we have to tighten up defensively and play the way we did the last month of the season,'' said Peter Stastny of the Devils, who allowed one goal in five of their games last month and finished the last 15 games of the regular season with a record of 10-4-1. Advertisement Stastny, whose goal with 3 minutes 5 seconds left proved to be the winner in Saturday night's 6-5 triumph, is the player the Devils pay the most attention to when he speaks. Advertisement ''We'll definitely need a better defensive effort,'' said Ken Daneyko, the steady defenseman, whose first goal in the playoffs gave the Devils a 4-1 lead at 3:37 of the middle period. ''Everybody expected a low-scoring series,'' said Rod Langway, the veteran defenseman of the Capitals. ''I don't think we allowed that many goals in a game the last month or so.'' The last time the Capitals allowed more than five goals was in a 6-3 loss to the Rangers on Feb. 23 at the Capital Centre. They finished the regular season giving up five goals in their last three games. ''That's the kind of numbers I like to see,'' Murray said of that season-ending stretch. Unhealthy Style ''Wide-open games like this give me a heart attack,'' Stastny said, ''And I'm sure it makes the coaches very unhappy, too.'' Stastny and his teammates got carried away a little after building leads of 3-0 and 4-1 Saturday night before Bob Joyce tied it at 4-4 for the Capitals midway in the third period. Eric Weinrich, the rookie defenseman for the Devils, broke the deadlock with 6:48 left on a goal the Capitals said should have been disallowed because of interference on their goaltender, Don Beaupre, in the crease.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ''I've never seen a goaltender run over so many times without any calls,'' said Murray, whose players like to barrel into opposing goaltenders as much as any team in the league. Advertisement ''Their player was on top of our goaltender,'' Murray said in complaining about Weinrich's goal. ''I don't understand it. It's tough to figure it out.'' Beaupre was still on the ice after knocking down a shot by Brendan Shanahan when Weinrich's shot from the right circle sailed into the net. A Thrill for the Rookie ''I wasn't looking who was anywhere,'' Weinrich said of his goal. ''I saw it come out and I just put my head down and hit it. When I saw it in the net, I was as excited as I've ever been in my life.'' After Stastny followed with his goal, Dino Ciccarelli's second of the game and fifth in the series brought the Capitals within a goal with 1:06 left. Washington took Beaupre out again for an extra attacker after Ciccarelli's goal and intensified its attack, putting the Devils under severe pressure in the waning moments. The final whistle found Chris Terreri, the Devils' goaltender, sprawled on the ice with at least five players on top of him. ''It was like a goal-line stand in football,'' Terreri said of the closing seconds, which ended with Vyacheslav Fetisov of the Devils batting the puck away from the goal with his hand. ''It was more like a volleyball move,'' Fetisov said of the play. ''I saw it go up and then going in on the way down. I threw it away before it went in.'' One aspect of the game players from both teams don't expect to change when the series resumes is the number of penalties. The teams were assessed 70 penalties, 37 on the Capitals, in the first two games, and a total of 241 minutes. Advertisement The Capitals have been penalized for 123 minutes and the Devils for 118. These teams set a record for infractions in a playoff series with 219 penalties and 654 minutes in their seven-game series in the 1988 Patrick Division final, won by the Devils. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 9, 1990, on Page C00005 of the National edition with the headline: Devils Find Series Offensive.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »