Advertisement By JACK CURRY Phil Plantier knew it was gone. Jeff Johnson knew it, too. The bunch of fans who scurried after the ball in the right-field upper deck also knew it was gone. When Plantier's pinch-hit blast landed in the seats, the chances that the Yankees would end their losing streak were essentially gone as well. Sure, it was only the sixth inning, but the Yankees have not been coming back much lately, and they have been scoring runs in drips. So when Plantier planted his compact swing on a slider for a three-run home run that gave the Red Sox a two-run lead, things looked grim for the Yankees. They remained status quo after nine innings as Boston quelled a few rare comeback attempts and took a 5-4 victory over New York last night at Yankee Stadium. "This one hurts pretty bad," said Johnson. "I made one bad pitch the whole game. I hung one ball and he hits it 500 feet." When are the Yankees going to laugh their way to a victory? More important, when are they going to record another victory? The answers are not on the horizon. The Bronx Non-Bombers have lost eight straight games, their worst streak in 15 months, and their anemic offense has produced a mere 29 runs in 13 games. Advertisement New York stranded seven runners over the final three innings, two more were wiped out on a double play in the sixth, and a few chances were botched by shoddy baserunning. Don Mattingly barely missed a game-tying home run off Jeff Reardon in the ninth inning when Tom Brunansky leaped at the right field wall and deflected the ball back into play. The Yankees loaded the bases, and Randy Velarde popped out to short to end the game. Advertisement "When I hit it, I thought it was gone," said Mattingly, who settled for a double and fell 90 feet short of scoring the tying run. "At least we've been battling in this series. We didn't really have the fight in us in the last series. It's still disappointing, you know." And what about those pennant-pursuing boys from Beantown? They have to be loving the only free ride still available in the Bronx, courtesy of the hapless Yanks. The Red Sox have won 9 of their last 10 games and remained three and a half games behind the first-place Toronto Blue Jays.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Those are the types of games you don't win when you're going bad," said Boston Manager Joe Morgan. The pivotal juncture in this Yankees loss occurred in the sixth when Johnson allowed Brunansky's third single and clipped John Marzano on the right foot with a breaking ball. That sequence put the tying and go-ahead runs on base with the Yankees leading, 3-2. Scott Cooper, a rookie who has batted twice this season, was due to hit. Morgan inserted another lefty rookie with a sweet swing and Popeye arms. Plantier has batted only 77 times this season, but he has 5 homers, 23 runs batted in, a .390 batting average and a .444 average with runners in scoring position. Johnson was touched for a long homer by Plantier in a Class AAA a few months ago, so he knew the hitter well. Plantier almost did not get the chance to go deep last night because he almost fouled out to third, but the ball escaped into the stands. It turned out to be a huge play because Plantier turned on a 2-2 slider and sent it high and far into the night. The ball landed about five rows deep in the upper deck. It was the first pinch-hit homer for the Red Sox this season and the first homer Johnson had given up to a left-handed batter this year. "I didn't stand there and watch it," Plantier said. "I took a peek up to see where it landed. I had to." What made this loss especially excruciating is what happened after Plantier's shot. The Yankees had chances to regain the lead, but four Boston relievers tiptoed through their lineup and left them one run short. INSIDE PITCH SCOTT KAMIENIECKI will probably have surgery soon to fuse a herniated disc in his upper back. A three-month rehabilitation period would follow and the pitcher said he should be ready for spring training. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 14, 1991, on Page 1001027 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; 'One Bad Pitch,' One More Yankee Loss.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »