Advertisement By HARVEY ARATON Next up: Jimbo versus Jimco. Actually, Jim Courier, the ground-stroking wall between Jimmy Connors and the United States Open final, doesn't have a nickname and he doesn't want one either. He merely wishes to be a face under the baseball cap, "a tennis player, not a salesman." That's what he was yesterday, practicing at the National Tennis Center on Court 14 before half a dozen polite witnesses while Martina Navratilova was finishing off Steffi Graf. Promotions won't be a problem again this afternoon, as it is the presence of Connors, 39 and something to behold, that will take the second men's semifinal into that mega-ratings stratosphere beyond the realm of Grand Slam tournament tennis. In first semifinal, fifth-seeded Ivan Lendl will carry a 13-10 lifetime advantage and the memory of a 6-3, 6-2 victory at the pre-Open Hamlet tournament against Stefan Edberg, the No. 2-seeded male. When they last met in a Grand Slam, Lendl won a five-setter in the semifinals of the Australian Open. Connors and Courier have no history in sanctioned tournaments, although they practiced at the National Tennis Center before the Open began. As Connors has been a star since Courier wasn't much bigger than his racquet, Courier has already found the experience "just fantastic." Advertisement "When I joined the tour four years ago, I just wanted to play Connors and McEnroe before they retired, so I can tell my grandkids some day," Courier said. "It's amazing. I thought four years ago, Jimmy can hang it up at any moment." Advertisement Only the young and the naive would ever count on Connors's going away, as Patrick McEnroe, Aaron Krickstein and Paul Haarhuis have learned painfully. And while none of Connors's five opponents are in Courier's class, and a computer analysis might grudgingly concede Connors a set against the French Open champion and fourth seed here, Courier may have been wishing for a most unenjoyable experience if he cannot keep his ground strokes deep and Connors on his heels along the baseline. Courier knows he will reap no benefit even from being an American from Dade City, Fla., in the semifinals of the United States Open, not against Connors and his 20,000 Stadium-court cousins. "I am a foreigner, believe me," Courier said. But, he added, he believes he has been prepared for what he will face late this afternoon by Davis Cup crowds, by matches in Italy against Italians, and, most of all, by his coach, Jose Higueras.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Nine months ago, before he took on Higueras as a coach, Courier, despite the white baseball cap that has become a trademark, had difficulty concealing the battle of emotions being waged inside his head. His tennis was too often the loser, Higueras said, "because he didn't really believe how good a player he was." The Spaniard, who defeated Connors in the quarterfinals of the 1983 French Open, went to work, using all of his experience as a clay-court specialist, trying to build on Courier's patience to suit his strong baseline game and his confidence. "I told him over and over, the worst thing that can happen is that you lose," Higueras said. "And I told him, that is not so bad." Must Defeat His Emotions Higueras, who was widely acclaimed for helping Courier adjust to Andre Agassi's serve during a rain delay in the French Open final, believes Courier will surely vanquish Connors if he is successful in defeating his emotions. "Sometimes, a player can have a tendency to revert back when the pressure gets a little tough," he said. "There's no doubt that Connors hasn't played anyone yet who hits the ball as clean as Jim, someone who is playing this well." In defeating Nicklas Kulti, Jimmy Arias, Anders Jarryd, Emilio Sanchez and the defending champion, Pete Sampras, Courier has yet to drop a set. This is in sharp contrast to Connors, who has walked the tournament tightrope through two five-set matches and one four-setter. "The way he played at the French was incredible," Connors said of Courier. Connors, more than anyone, knows Courier is playing at a higher level from the caliber of competition he has faced. Can he make the climb? Said Higueras: "Nothing Jimmy does is a surprise. I've told Jim, 'Be ready for it all.' ' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 7, 1991, on Page 1001032 of the National edition with the headline: TENNIS; And Now It's Courier, And the Other Match.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »