Advertisement By ROB HUGHESMAY 25, 2014
 LONDON —  The final act of an exhausting and exhilarating Spanish season was played long into the night in Lisbon. After the Champions League final, the two Madrid teams flew home, Real to a party, Atlético to a wake. That is the relative misery for Atlético after it came so very close — within two minutes — to winning a double unprecedented in its history. The final Saturday had been brutal at times, brilliant at others, dramatic rather than a beautiful expression of soccer’s skills. Ultimately, it proved a fair reflection of the spending power that one club, Real, has relentlessly tapped into as it pursued its obsession with winning La Décima, the top European trophy for the 10th time.  A billion euros, and more, bought Real that prize. Gareth Bale and Cristiano Ronaldo each cost three times as much as Atlético’s entire squad. A week ago, when Atlético won La Liga and Real finished third, that spending seemed futile. Even 75 minutes into the encounter at Estádio da Luz, Atlético snapped so hard at the heels of Bale and Ronaldo that it seemed possible that the blue-collar team of the Spanish capital could pull off a once-in-a-lifetime double. All of this, and the World Cup currently in Spanish hands, too. One year ago, Germany had claimed omnipotence among European clubs. Now, Spain is undeniably superior. Advertisement But here’s the rub. While watching the drama unfold in Lisbon, one man of Madrid must have had torn and worried emotions. Vicente Del Bosque was the coach the last time Real won the Champions League, in 2002. He is now the coach of Spain. Advertisement Del Bosque is lugubrious at the best of times. As Saturday turned to Sunday, he would have known exactly what the players were up to, how they fueled their revelry or soothed their despair. And if for one second Del Bosque has forgotten how winners celebrate and losers try to drown their sorrows, he had only to look at the Real bench in Lisbon. There, assisting Coach Carlo Ancelotti, was Zinédine Zidane. Zizou has done it all. He led France to victory at the 1998 World Cup. His goal, the most majestic volley you could wish to see, won the 2002 Champions League final for Real over Bayer Leverkusen in Glasgow. But less than three weeks later, Zidane was a broken athlete. After Glasgow, he rested a week. His country needed him for the World Cup in South Korea and Japan. But after he flew in late to catch up with his countrymen in a different climate seven time zones away, he almost immediately pulled a thigh muscle. Zidane missed the first two games of the World Cup, then was patched up as he tried to play the third. As magnificent as he had been in late May, he was a shadow of his former self in South Korea. France surrendered its trophy in the shortest time on record and went home without scoring a single goal. What did the powers that be learn from this? Nothing. FIFA still demands its World Cup kick off in early June, UEFA still insists on its right to stage the crowning match of the European season in late May. The players, after long domestic seasons, are chasing the greatest prize on their club’s calendar while at the same time hurtling toward the biggest prize there is on the international stage.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Zidane’s isn’t the only body that has broken under this club-versus-country tug of war. Just as Lionel Messi broke down a year ago, Diego Costa and Cristiano Ronaldo are now carrying strains on their hamstrings at the same time that the pressure to perform is the greatest. Twice in seven days, Diego Costa was put at risk by Atlético. He lasted barely 15 minutes against Barcelona on May 17 before he had to be substituted. He then was flown to Belgrade, Serbia, to undergo alternative treatment using horse placenta. Advertisement We have been down this route before. Robin van Persie underwent the same treatment in Serbia years ago when he was desperate to get playing again for Arsenal. Frank Lampard of Chelsea had tried it, as had members of the Ghanaian national team. “Costa has us on tenterhooks,” Del Bosque told the Spanish news media about the Brazilian-born player who last year switched national allegiances when he joined the defending world champions. “Medicine,” Del Bosque added, “has advanced a long way, but each injury has its minimum recovery time. We will see what happens in the end, but he cannot go against his own health. Atlético and the player himself have to weigh up the situation and the consequences.” Diego Costa and Atlético Coach Diego Simeone pushed the boundaries of those consequences. This time, the wounded player lasted less than 10 minutes before he left. His team lost its most valuable attacker and had to use a substitution early in a contest where Atlético eventually ran out of fresh legs in the extra period. Even with Ronaldo hindered by a worn, though clearly less damaged hamstring, Real Madrid grew stronger as the game went on, while Atlético blew out. Atlético had chased down the best two sides in Spanish soccer and won a seemingly improbable La Liga title through sheer willpower, by running until its opponents wilted and through a mixture of desire and tactical savvy from Simeone. But now they were tired men. The Atlético coach faces trouble from UEFA after running onto the field to confront the referee, then doing the same thing again to intimidate a Real player. Simeone, the man in black who runs the sideline of every match with such intensity that he is almost a 12th man, lost his composure in the end. But his gamble might cost Diego Costa another dream — the World Cup that is less than three weeks away. The lure of glory and the schedules of competing soccer bodies — UEFA and FIFA — came with a cost: the risks to star players and their health. A version of this article appears in print on May 26, 2014, in The International New York Times.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »