Advertisement By MICHAEL MARTINEZ Everybody likes him. What's not to like? Bob Whitfield is big like a bear and funny and apparently always at ease, as if the world and everything in it had been placed at his feet for his choosing. In some ways, perhaps it has because Whitfield -- not quite 20 years old but already being called one of the finest offensive linemen in the land -- has choices to make. The most important: Does he bolt Stanford University and grab the riches of the National Football League after finishing his junior season? Or does he fulfill his family's wishes, play two more years and complete a degree in industrial engineering? Ask Whitfield, and you hear only this: "I tell people I'm staying to get my degree, but I always leave a 'what if.' If they want to pay me $5 million for three years, well, O.K." O.K., but nothing is assured. Not if it involves Whitfield, wise for his age -- and considerably large, too, at 6 feet 6 inches and 295 pounds -- as well as enormously gifted and likeable. Advertisement "Bob is special," said Stanford Coach Dennis Green. "He has a dynamic personality, and the fact that he's a tremendous football player is almost incidental." Advertisement Not quite. At a time when most of the preseason attention has fallen on scoring stars like Houston's David Klingler or Brigham Young's Ty Detmer, an offensive lineman like Whitfield often tends to be overlooked. While many fans may not yet be familiar with his accomplishments, they are likely to be soon. A consensus preseason all-American at left tackle, Whitfield is already being projected as a first-round draft choice by most N.F.L. scouts. He has started all 22 games in his collegiate career, was a finalist last season for the Outland Trophy and in 1989 became the first true freshman to start on Stanford's offensive line since 1973. They might as well right now hand him the Outland and Lombardi Trophies, which both are given to the country's best linemen. Heady stuff, but Whitfield has both feet planted firmly on the ground. "I read the magazines, but I don't think anything of them because I still have to perform," he said. "They think I'm pretty good; I think I need work. It's the real world out there. I could be a big sports star, but sports is just one aspect of the world. I'm not on the Forbes 500 list. This is small time, really." 'A Gentle Giant' "We had an argument about it," said his mother, Eartha Whitfield. "I feel like the things that are happening to him now are neat, and I want him to tell me about them. I'm proud of him. But to him, they're nothing. Actually, I guess I'm glad he doesn't make a big deal. If he did, his head would get so big you couldn't get around him." Even without the swelled head, all of Whitfield is big. His mother says he's a "gentle giant." His aunt, Dorothy Ross, whose home here in a Los Angeles suburb is where Whitfield occasionally escapes, calls him a teddy bear. "You look at him, and he looks like someone you'd be afraid of," his aunt said. "But he'd never do anything to hurt anybody. He's the kind of person who would do anything in the world for you." The thing that Whitfield would like to do first is re-establish respectability for a Stanford program that has generally floundered. Green is 8-14 in two seasons, but Whitfield is talking about a Rose Bowl bid, something that hasn't happened to a Cardinal team since 1972. Stanford, however, plays a schedule that ranks among the most difficult in the nation: Washington, Colorado, Notre Dame, Southern California and U.C.L.A. Coach Was an Influence Advertisement His belief in his team might stem from his belief in Green. As a senior at Banning High School here, Whitfield was courted by Miami, Michigan, Notre Dame and U.C.L.A. He didn't give Stanford much consideration until Green was hired in January 1989. "After that," he said, "I gave it a closer look." Green was the reason. "First, he's a black coach, and I'd like to see the success of the black people." Whitfield said. "Second, he was different from other coaches. He didn't have a used car salesman's pitch. He came straight forward. And he's a nice person."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. For his part, the 42-year-old Green may have seen something of himself in the young player. "We hit it off quickly," he said of his initial meeting with Whitfield, which came the day after he was hired. "He loves the game of football, but he also loves life. He's ready with a smile and enjoys every day. That's the way I am." At the major-college level, Whitfield demonstrated that his ability was as quick as his wit. He played every down as a freshman and was named to the All-Pacific-10 second team. People noticed. "He is very agile, whether it's on the football field or the dance floor," Green said. "He also plays with a lot of determination. He's a good run blocker, has flat-out speed, is extra quick and doesn't get intimidated." A School for Studying He also moves well in the classroom. Whitfield, like most Stanford athletes, will carry a full load of classes this fall, which for him includes linear algebra, probability and statistics, and general engineering. He has already handled physics. "The good thing about Stanford is that it's not a big party school," he said, sounding relieved. "The general population is usually at the library studying. If you want to meet a girl, you have to go to the library, so you might as well bring your books." Whitfield's parents -- Eartha, a preschool teacher in San Jose, and his father, Bob, who died of a heart attack almost four years ago at age 43 -- put a premium on education early. Whitfield quickly discovered the value of good grades after watching his sister, Carre, achieve academic success. "I wanted to follow in her footsteps," he said. "If she got $5 for getting an 'A' in class, I wanted to get $5 also. It wasn't that hard." Decision on the Pros Advertisement But will he set aside his final year of school to turn professional after this season? There's a question that has Palo Alto on edge. His mother and aunt say Green, who is as much a trusted ally as he is Whitfield's coach, will be consulted first and perhaps last. "The family knows that I'll give them an honest appraisal," said Green, a former assistant coach with the San Francisco 49ers. "Bob can make a lot of money in 1992, or a lot in 1993. He'll have to look at his progress as a player but also recognize that he's at a fine university and look at the value of a degree." Eartha Whitfield said: "It's a question that's plagued me since he was in high school. Being a mother, I've always given my children the opportunity to make their own decisions. I have no idea what he'll do, but I know he'll make the right choice. He made the right choice coming to Stanford." Whitfield smiles coyly at the uncertainty around him and says simply that he cannot look too far ahead, not with a season approaching and with classes about to begin. "If I say I'm coming out early, it will make me lose track of my schoolwork," he said. "So I just say I'm going to school." "We can go to the Rose Bowl this season," he said. "If we beat Washington, everbody will be scared of us. It's no problem." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 25, 1991, on Page 8008008 of the National edition with the headline: COLLEGE FOOTBALL; The World at His Feet, Feet Firmly on the Ground.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »