Advertisement By JOE LAPOINTE Adam Graves set the tone for the Rangers by knocking the Islanders around with several early body checks, but he also employed other skills last night when the local rivals met at Madison Square Garden. By game's end, Graves had three goals, the Rangers had a 9-2 victory and the Islanders had little to be proud of. Signed as a free agent primarily for a checking role, Graves has scored 19 goals, including six in the last five games. Graves says he has just been lucky lately and that the puck "has eyes." Rangers Coach Roger Neilson joked that Graves won't be able to come to his summer coaching clinic as an example for the lecture on checking. Advertisement "We'll have to change it to goal-scoring," he said. 9-1-2 in Last 12 Games Although the team's goal total was high, the result was somewhat routine for the Rangers, who are atop the Patrick Division and the league, and are 9-1-2 in their last 12 games. But the defeat could be discouraging for the fifth-place Islanders, who began the night on a 5-1-1 streak and who still entertain notions of qualifying for the division's fourth and final playoff berth. The loss kept them 7 points behind fourth-place Pittsburgh. Advertisement "We got spanked pretty good," said Islanders Coach Al Arbour. "We got what we deserved. We couldn't do anything tonight. We couldn't get out of each other's way." It was the most goals in a game this season for the Rangers, who visit the Devils tomorrow afternoon. Darren Turcotte and Tony Amonte also scored twice for the Rangers.  Rough and Ready  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Rangers outshot the Islanders, 48-25, and drove goalie Mark Fitzpatrick to the bench in the third period. The Rangers took firm control in the first period when they outscored the Islanders by 2-0, outshot them by 17-3 and outhit them by about 10-4. After two periods, the score was 4-1 and the shots were 32-12. When Rich Pilon of the Islanders rammed Amonte in the first period, Graves stood up for his linemate by knocking Pilon's helmet off. A few minutes later, Graves clobbered David Volek along the boards and separated him from the puck. Volek, along with linemates Derek King and Pierre Turgeon, had led the Islanders on their recent surge. Each managed only a single assist in this one. Tie Domi, the frequent fighter of the Rangers, lined up Islander ruffian Mick Vukota and knocked off his helmet. A few minutes later, Joe Cirella of the Rangers did the same thing to Vukota. Amonte, a skilled rookie, was a frequent target of the Islanders, and Ken Baumgartner also bounced him, but he kept getting up for good scoring chances. He finished with 10 shots on goal and now has 23 goals. In the third period, Baumgartner and Vukota took on Domi and Kris King in a tag-team bout. When Vukota turned down a chance to fight him, Domi reached over anyway and punched Vukota in the head before wrestling Baumgartner to the ice. Mark Messier got the other goal for the Rangers while they were a man short, to go with two assists. The Rangers are tied for second in the league in this department, with 12, one behind Detroit. Dean Chynoweth and Ray Ferraro scored for the Islanders. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 15, 1992, on Page 1001031 of the National edition with the headline: O.K., Let's Start the Playoffs Right Now.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »