Advertisement By HARVEY ARATON In the middle of a bruising, foul-marred game between the Knicks and the Detroit Pistons yesterday, Patrick Ewing looked like the Bulls' Scottie Pippen in the basketball-shoe commercial filmed in black and white with a 1950's motif. Ewing stood out as if he were a man with futuristic skills. Ewing also looked like a bargain at his salary of $33 million over six years, scoring 45 points, grabbing 10 rebounds and blocking 4 shots as the Knicks rallied from 18 points behind to beat the Pistons, 103-96, at Madison Square Garden. It was Ewing's 22d 40-point game as a Knick, one behind the career leader, Bernard King. The Knicks, 7-0 at home this season and winners of five straight, held the Pistons scoreless for a period of 6 minutes 49 seconds from late in the second quarter until 7:24 of the third, turning a 56-41 deficit into a 60-56 lead, a 19-0 run. Having limited Miami to 11 fourth-quarter points in their previous game, last Tuesday night, and all of their last six opponents under 100 points, the Knicks pulled out the old defensive cliches from the Rick Pitino days. They noticed perceptible increases in their "intensity" and their ability to give "110 percent." After a first-quarter slumber, in which they surrendered 35 points and only Ewing's 20 points prevented them from falling into a hole halfway to China, they allowed the Pistons 21, 19, and 21 points over the final three quarters. Advertisement "We're starting to be able to pick up the defensive momentum the way we were able to under Coach Pitino," said Mark Jackson, who watched from the bench as rookie Greg Anthony used his quick feet to defend against Isiah Thomas for all but the final seconds of the fourth quarter. "The defense is different because we don't go full-court. But we're starting to be able to pick it up a notch in the half-court, and at important times in the game." Advertisement Before anyone gets carried away, it would be wise to consider who the competition was. The fading Pistons (7-9), two-time National Basketball Association champions, still bring an admirable ethic to work, but appear to have fallen a couple of crucial notches in their levels of chemistry and execution. Even what Knicks Coach Pat Riley described as their "tactics" didn't help them yesterday. Early in the second quarter, with Ewing posting up in the lane against Bill Laimbeer, Laimbeer fell backward and to the floor, in small part from minimal contact and in large part from one of his notorious flops. Laimbeer got the call, and Ewing a techical foul, but John Salley fell over Laimbeer and injured his left knee. The 7-foot front courtman, Detroit's most active shot-blocking presence, was suspected to have suffered damage to his anterior cruciate ligament.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. It also didn't help the Pistons, nor hurt the Knicks' growing defensive egos, that small forward Mark Aguirre, after piling up 18 first-half points, injured his right elbow and played only the first few minutes of the third quarter. That left Detroit's offense in the hands of Thomas, who scored 17 points, and his slumping backcourt partner, Joe Dumars, who had 15. Of Us and Them Behind Gerald Wilkins's 8 points to close the second quarter, the Knicks reduced Detroit's lead to a workable 56-48. Then the Pistons committed a rash of early third-quarter fouls, worked their way into the penalty at the 9:19 mark and paid for it. As the Knicks took their 60-56 lead, 8 of their 12 points came at the line. "That was the key because it wasn't like they were scoring baskets at will against us," Thomas said. "But part of it was them making the play and us committing the fouls." Once the Knicks had regained control of their fate, they had Ewing to make sure they held onto it. There was no one capable of seriously contesting his turnaround jumper, and Ewing was having one of those days when he hits even the shots taken a step or three out of his preferred zone. "Patrick is awesome," Thomas said, his use of the present tense meaning he didn't view this as any kind of aberration. Ewing's 12 points in the fourth quarter included a runner in the lane to beat the 24-second clock and another clock-beater in the face of Laimbeer, one of his least favorite people, from 17 feet out on the left side. That gave the Knicks a 101-96 lead. Just to make sure, he stuffed Orlando Woolridge's layup on the last possession of the game, punctuating his awesome offensive show with another defensive play for the Knicks to put into their newest scrapbook. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 1, 1991, on Page 8008001 of the National edition with the headline: BASKETBALL; Knicks Rally In Ewing's Glow.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »