Advertisement By JOE SEXTON and  In baseball, the catcher, the field spread out before him, the dugout visible via his peripheral vision, is the brain's control center. All information flows from him or passes through him. He selects the pitches. His choice of location for those pitches positions the infielders. A glance at the manager can transmit a warning of trouble concerning the man on the mound. It is a complicated, relentless and absolutely delicate function, and it is one the Mets are prepared, even eager, to assign to a rookie. The Mets believe Todd Hundley can handle the complex circuitry of strategy and impulse, and so desperately do they need and want him to do so that they don't care what the 22-year-old does with his bat. "Todd Hundley is ready to catch every day in the major leagues," Gerry Hunsicker, the assistant vice president of baseball operations for the Mets, said of the candidate to run the club from behind the plate. "At 18, he could have caught at Triple A, he was that sure of himself, that skilled defensively. And the feeling from that moment on has been that all he needed was to play." So strong, so resilient has the organization's belief in Hundley been that it has opted in recent seasons not to pursue the attractive and available likes of catchers such as Benito Santiago and Sandy Alomar Jr. Advertisement "I've been aware of that, and it meant a lot to me during the off-season," Hundley said. "To have a club show that much confidence in me, it had to help. Does it put a lot on my back? Yeah. But I'd rather shoulder that than have a club show no confidence in me." Not Everyone Is Convinced Advertisement Such confidence is not universally shared in the clubhouse, although skepticism has to date only been anonymously voiced. It is no secret, though, that the doubts about Hundley's ability to assume and secure the everyday job the Mets have laid before him originate with the offensive numbers the catcher has posted in a two seasons of emergency, or mop-up, use. Hundley, who was promoted from Class AA baseball to fill in for the Mets in 1990, hit .209 in 36 games that season. Last season, called up after the Mets were out of the race and after anything resembling enthusiasm had evaporated from the clubhouse, Hundley struggled even worse, sustaining only a .133 average in 21 games. "I'm surprised they were even that good," Hundley said without equivocation. "I was thrown into the fire in 1990, and I was scared, definitely in over my head. And last season, there were 10 at-bats here, 10 there, what like 60 in all. And the attitude on the club wasn't that great. I don't even look at those numbers." And for anyone to agonize over them, according to the Mets, would in one sense amount to being consumed by an irrelevancy. The Mets, who haven't quite said they are willing to endure Hundley's mustering as pathetic an average as his lifetime major league mark of .173, have said they are so enamored of his defensive presence that "any offense would be a bonus." "With our defense as suspect as it is already, we can't afford not to have an above-average defensive catcher in there all the time," said Hunsicker. "And I think we have surrounded him with enough offense."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Mets, too, have turned over to him a pitching staff of multiple talents and myriad personalities, as well as one whose health will be an intensely scrutinized, and emotionally charged, concern. "Am I intimidated by it? No," said Hundley. "Any catcher prides himself on how the pitching does, and we have the opportunity to have the best pitching in baseball. My toughest job will be to know what to do with each of the guys in a tight spot. I'll be asked to handle them, and how often I get them through those spots will decide what they think of me." "Unless it was all lip service, the pitchers all seemed to rave about his presence behind the plate," added Hunsicker. Advertisement Manager Jeff Torborg isn't mouthing false talk, either. He said his plan is for Hundley to call his own game behind the plate, to be there to assist him when necessary and to live with modest offensive output unless the Mets are suffering from a crisis of runs already. Torborg, however, has options, and he has discussed them freely. He could use Charlie O'Brien if he had to, he'd use Mackey Sasser is he is able to, he'd employ all three in a rotation of sorts if that had appeal. "I'm only going on reports, and on the understanding that since his dad was Randy Hundley, catching's in his blood a bit," said Torborg. "But the reports are that he's ready." And the Mets aren't about to apologize that he's not another high-priced "celebrity." "It has proven extremely difficult for young players to break in to the majors in New York," said Hunsicker. "And while, yeah, Hundley is 22, if you can't give one of the top young talents in your organization a shot, you might as well not have a developmental system at all." Right now, Hundley is projected to be at the center of the information and execution system that takes the field for the Mets every day. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 23, 1992, on Page 8008003 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; The Mets Hand the Game to Hundley.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »