Advertisement By JOSEPH DURSO With Dwight Gooden pitching and Darryl Strawberry hitting, and with all their flags otherwise flying in the winds of Wrigley Field, the Mets did what they could do today to stay in hot pursuit as they turned into the final full week of their pennant race. They rattled 15 hits around the ivy-covered confines of the old ball park and overpowered the Chicago Cubs, 7-3. They have hammered out 27 hits and 18 runs in two winning afternoons here. But while they were winning a big game, they were losing a big day, because the Pittsburgh Pirates were defeating the St. Louis Cardinals and keeping the Mets two and a half games away with only 10 to play. The Mets stayed alive in the classic manner: Gooden pitched eight innings of dynamite baseball, won for the 18th time this season against six losses and beat the Cubs for the 21st time in his seven-year career against only three defeats. More than that, he won his 10th successive game in Wrigley Field, where the high winds and short walls favor most hitters and hound most pitchers. The Two Classics Gooden's classic pitching still needed some classic hitting to survive. And he got it when Strawberry led off the sixth inning with the teams locked in a scoreless duel, and whaled the second pitch from Greg Maddux into the bleachers in right field for his 37th home run of the season. It was the eighth home run in September for Strawberry, who has knocked in 22 runs in 23 games this month. And it opened the gates: Before Maddux got three outs, he gave up five singles and three more runs. Advertisement ''I like our chances,'' said Bud Harrelson, keeping the stiff upper lip. ''The Pirates don't play tomorrow, so we can chop them down to two games. It's been a while since we could bury a club with both pitching and hitting and then let nature takes its course.'' Advertisement ''If we can get it down to two games tomorrow,'' said Dave Magadan, playing the numbers game along with everybody else, ''and if we can gain one game in our next six after that, then we'll go into Pittsburgh next Monday in a good position to catch them. You'd rather not be trailing them at all, but beggars can't be choosers.'' Strawberry Feels Stiff Strawberry left the game in the seventh inning because his lower back was stiffening, and he admitted that it was still hurting. But he promised to keep playing, and he told Harrelson before the game: ''It's too important now to sit it out.'' ''If we want to win this thing,'' he said, ''we've got to do this every day: score runs, and keep scoring runs. If you fall behind, you start pressuring yourself. But Doc was pitching such a big game, it gives you the feeling in the dugout: Now's the time to do it.'' Strawberry got that feeling when he went to bat to open the sixth inning with zeroes on the scoreboard. Gooden was pitching a tour de force with a blurring fastball and sweeping curve, he had won his last six decisions and 14 of his last 15 going back to June 2. He hadn't lost to the Cubs since 1987, and he hadn't lost in Wrigley Field since he was a rookie in 1984. But he was no better than even this time.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Smacking It Deep> ''The last time up,'' Strawberry remembered, ''he struck me out with a fastball that came inside and then tailed away a little. This time, he threw me the same pitch, but up and out a little more.'' He smacked it deep into the seats in right field, and Gooden finally had a run. And a few minutes later, he had four. In a flurry of jabs, Kevin McReynolds and Tim Teufel singled and, one out later, Charlie O'Brien singled for a 2-0 lead. Gooden struck out trying to bunt, but the Mets didn't subside until Howard Johnson had singled for another run and Magadan had singled for yet another. One inning later, McReynolds singled and Teufel doubled, and Daryl Boston hit a home run off Dave Pavlas, who had just arrived to relieve Maddux. And that was it: seven runs inside two innings, the kind of production the Mets fashioned in June when they bombarded the Cubs for 48 runs in four games. Opening Things Up ''Sometimes a guy hits a home run,'' Strawberry said, ''and the pitcher gets cautious and starts leaving the ball hanging out over the plate. It can open things up.'' Advertisement It did. It opened things up so decisively that Gooden coasted into the eighth inning with a three-hitter and eight strikeouts. ''I felt good,'' he said later. ''I had all my pitches working for me.'' But he weakened in the eighth, gave up four singles in a row and lost his shutout but won his game. Then he said that he had ''kept us in the game till we got something going.'' But he confessed that he had no idea he hadn't lost in Wrigley Field in six years. ''I don't like the mound here and I don't like to pitch here,'' he said. ''I remember losing here in '84. It was the first game I lost in the big leagues. But I don't remember anything about Wrigley Field since then.'' Special to The New York Times We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 24, 1990, on Page C00001 of the National edition with the headline: Gooden And Bats Click For Mets.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »