Advertisement By RICHARD SANDOMIR Halfway through its 16-day marathon broadcast of the Winter Olympics, CBS is gradually balancing, rather than juggling, daily deliveries of action, features and studio chitchat. The 10 1/2 minutes of commercials each hour, the cutaways to features at dramatic junctures and the still-stilted repartee between the prime-time anchors, Tim McCarver and Paula Zahn, remain apparent. But even the most jaded viewer must be swayed when CBS hits it right, as it did in its Friday night coverage of the Finnish team's surprise victory in ski jumping called by the crack team of Phil Liggett and Jeff Hastings, or yesterday's victory by the American hockey team over Poland, presided over by John Davidson and Mike Emrick. Emrick is peerless in dropping key nuggets of information, like the offsides rule, into breathless action. "We've improved and will continue to in terms of keeping the programs interesting from beginning to end," said Mike Pearl, the 48-year-old coordinating producer for CBS's Olympics broadcasts, a refugee from ABC's Olympics unit. "Of course, it doesn't hurt to have good events." Advertisement It doesn't hurt to have the best prime-time hosts to anchor the broadcast, and Pearl defended the McCarver-Zahn team, while acknowledging that they have had problems. They are the image of CBS in Albertville, even if they are on camera each night for no more than 15 minutes (probably less time than Bonnie Blair and family are viewed). Advertisement "It's a matter of getting them used to their roles," Pearl said. "These are roles neither one of them has experienced before. They're improving, but I think in the first week, we've laid a foundation that we can build from." McCarver and Zahn have loosened up slightly. Zahn has let her hair down (literally), which makes her warmer. McCarver has donned eyeglasses. Instead of the two chatting uncomfortably on their own, they have conducted interviews with analysts like Scott Hamilton (figure skating) and athletes (Team USA goaltender Ray LeBlanc) who appear on the studio monitor. Others like analyst John Davidson (hockey), have shown up in the studio. "The idea was to get them comfortable first and expand their roles a little bit," said Pearl. "At some point, we'll send them out of the studio. But we won't invent things for them to do." He added that teaming the two was "a gamble."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "We knew their backgrounds weren't known in this area going in," he said. "It's something new, something you can't rehearse." The success of the American hockey team makes it nearly imperative to have McCarver and LeBlanc swap ideas on catching and goaltending. Can somebody at CBS please send Timmy's old catcher's mitt by overnight mail? Viewers are not showing mass frustration with much of CBS's effort. They're watching in big numbers. Friday night's 16.8 national rating and 30 share brought CBS's seven-night average to 18.8/29, compared with the seven-day 18.1/28 for ABC four years ago during the Calgary Winter Games. "With numbers like that, you have to think you're doing something right," said Pearl. "Twice as many people are watching us than would watch a highly rated college basketball game, so twice as many people may not like some part of what we're doing." Advertisement One eager group gathered last night before five TV sets at the Westchester home of Doug Wilson, who directed figure skating at six Winter Olympics for ABC. Among those scheduled to show up were 30 of ABC's Olympic veterans, including Dick Button and Frank Gifford. "It'll be heart-wrenching," said Wilson. "But we'll be over there in spirit with them." How's CBS doing? "Sometimes you wonder why they do this or that, but over all it's very admirable. Every situation that comes up bears their fingerprint and their format. They're putting on a good show." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 16, 1992, on Page 8008003 of the National edition with the headline: TV SPORTS; When the Time Is Right, So Is CBS.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »