Advertisement By HARVEY ARATON and  Four days before the Winter Olympics will open, a major snowfall blanketed the Savoy region today, snarling traffic on twisting two-lane roads, interrupting training schedules for athletes and bringing French military personnel and schoolchildren out to clear the way. In this remote ski resort, the immediate question was how the weather will affect Sunday's men's downhill ski race, the Olympics' showpiece skiing event, which is scheduled to be run here. Snow began falling Monday night and about a foot fell in high elevations. Weather forecasters said the snow would probably continue until Thursday, depositing up to 20 inches. As the delegations and competitors from many countries made the slow climb today from Albertville, the Winter Games' central site, into Val d'Isere, taking as much as five hours to go 53 miles, it became apparent that the weather conditions could not only determine who wins the downhill, but even where it is run. The downhill is scheduled to be held on a new course designed for the Olympic competition by Bernhard Russi, the former Swiss downhill champion and 1972 Olympic gold medalist. But if bad weather this week prevents the skiers from making their practice runs on the new course, the Olympic downhill could be held on another course here, one that has been used for World Cup competition and that a number of downhillers prefer because it is straighter and more appropriate for speed. Advertisement Each skier is allowed to ski the new course once a day for the three days before the event, with training runs to begin Thursday. If weather should interrupt that, the downhill could either be delayed or moved to the other course. Advertisement One skier who would applaud a shift is A. J. Kitt of the United States, who won a World Cup event on the old course here Dec. 7. That stunning victory was the first in a world-class downhill for an American man since Bill Johnson took the Olympic gold medal at Sarajevo, Yugoslavia, in 1984. The new course has enough turns and bumps to create a slower race better suited to technical downhillers like Franz Heinzer of Switzerland and Marc Girardelli of Luxembourg. Many of the skiers who have studied the course also complained that light would be a major problem on an overcast day. So, skiers like Kitt will be rooting for a cold, icy day and clear, blue skies -- unlike today, when snowflakes the size of half dollars fell and cars parked on the street disappeared beneath them. Jean-Claude Fritsch, the Alpine skiing official for the Winter Games, said the snow had made the new course unusable. "We're a little unsettled," he said. As a result, 450 workers were scheduled to take to the slopes Wednesday to remove the fresh snow, starting at 5:30 A.M.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Weather is a constant worry at any Winter Olympics. In 1984, at Sarajevo, there had been no snow for weeks, then there was snow for 100 consecutive hours. In 1988, organizers in Calgary, Alberta, were frantic before snow finally fell. These Olympics are spread over 13 venues and more than 600 square miles, with many mountain areas accessible only by two-lane roads, without guardrails. Predictably, many minor accidents were reported in today's snow. A car crawling down a corkscrew road from La Plagne, site of the luge and bobsled run, to Aime at 15 miles an hour spun sideways three times within a mile. At La Plagne, one practice run and one official training run in men's luge were delayed and then constantly interrupted so that workmen could sweep the snow off the course. At Les Saises, more than a foot of snow covered the cross-country ski courses, and heavy machinery was brought in to pack the new snow. Les Saises received the most snowfall of any venue and by Thursday could have more than two feet if predictions prove accurate. No Jump Training Ski-jump training was called off at Courchevel. In Albertville, the precipitation came in the form of an icy rain and speed skaters training on the outdoor track had to seek shelter indoors. The snow even kept Prime Minister Edith Cresson of France from addressing the 98th session of the International Olympic Committee in Courchevel. She had planned to come in by helicopter, but conditions would not permit it, her office in Paris told The Associated Press. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 5, 1992, on Page B00009 of the National edition with the headline: ALBERTVILLE '92; As the Snow Falls Heavily, the Winter Games' Problems Begin.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »