Advertisement By MURRAY CHASS Spring training began yesterday, but the Yankees were already in midseason form -- not with their pitching and hitting but with their bizarre front-office turbulence. First, Daniel McCarthy, designated by the club's partnership as the managing partner, put his status in jeopardy by failing to appear for a meeting with Commissioner Fay Vincent. Then, Leonard Kleinman was fired as the club's chief operating officer, leaving George Steinbrenner suspended in a twilight zone in his effort to return as managing partner. While the turmoil may not directly affect the players on the field, the disarray in the Yankee front office through the winter hindered their efforts to make player moves that would improve the team, and yesterday's developments threaten to make matters worse. The developments were the kinds of events that only the Steinbrenner-owned Yankees seem capable of concocting. They involved three men -- two of whom once were law partners -- who have been longtime friends, dating to their younger days in Cleveland. Advertisement And they involved a bitter fight between two of the men -- Steinbrenner and Kleinman -- over the course of a lawsuit that Steinbrenner had been financing on Kleinman's behalf. Advertisement The lawsuit, which Kleinman filed against Vincent in 1990, is a key roadblock preventing Steinbrenner from returning to active management of the team. Vincent has steadfastly said that he would not consider Steinbrenner's bid for reinstatement until the lawsuit is dropped. Kleinman's dismissal was the result of a decision by the Yankee partners at their meeting in Tampa, Fla., on Wednesday. The partners, according to a lawyer familiar with their action, unanimously agreed to order Kleinman to drop his lawsuit against Vincent. If he did not, he was told, he would be fired. He did not and he was fired. Earlier, Steinbrenner had offered Kleinman about $750,000 in an unsuccessful effort to persuade him to drop the suit. But now that he has been fired, Kleinman will have even less reason to do so. The Kleinman development prompted speculation that Steinbrenner would try to persuade the commissioner to meet with him by saying that he had done everything he could about the lawsuit and that the matter was beyond his control. Asked what his response to that possible approach by Steinbrenner would be, Vincent said: "I'd say no. He is still an adversary in the lawsuit. Among other things, he has financed it." Shortly before leaving the job he has held for a little more than two years, Kleinman declined to comment on anything. "I don't even want to listen to any questions," he politely told a reporter who had telephoned him at Yankee Stadium.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. A little while later, Kleinman summoned the Yankees' front-office staff to a meeting and, a staff member said, told them, "Effective at 5 o'clock, I am no longer chief operating officer. I've been relieved by the managing general partner." He presumably meant McCarthy, but McCarthy seemed at the moment to have a tenuous grasp on the position. Still needing approval of the commissioner and baseball's other club owners, McCarthy chose not to attend a meeting he had scheduled with Vincent at 11 A.M. yesterday. Although neither he nor a law partner, Sheldon Sager, returned telephone calls seeking comment, McCarthy had told the commissioner's office he objected to the commissioner's plan to have a court stenographer present at the meeting. Advertisement Vincent immediately pronounced McCarthy's status as "perilous" and informed the Cleveland tax lawyer that "he should explain to me by the close of business Monday why I should not eliminate him as a candidate to be the managing general partner of the Yankees." At the close of business Monday, Vincent added, "I will take the next step." McCarthy is the second limited partner to become managing partner since Steinbrenner was forced out in August 1990. He had been designated to succeed the first, Robert Nederlander. But Vincent thought a Jan. 15 meeting he had with McCarthy was unsatisfactory and had summoned him back for a second session. Vincent said he wanted a court stenographer present yesterday because "I wanted to be very sure I had an accurate record of what that meeting consisted of." Enter Someone Else It seems highly unlikely that McCarthy, who sued Vincent after Steinbrenner was forced out, will gain approval as managing partner. That would open the way for yet another designee. The leading candidate most likely is Joseph Molloy, a club executive and a son-in-law of Steinbrenner. Kleinman once coveted the position of managing partner, and considered himself in line to take over when Steinbrenner was banished for his $40,000 payment to an admitted gambler, Howard Spira. But because Kleinman faced a hearing before the commissioner into his alleged role in the payment, Vincent said it would be inappropriate at that time for Kleinman to be nominated for the position. As a result, Kleinman filed the lawsuit against Vincent. Steinbrenner has been trying for two months to induce Kleinman to drop the lawsuit, but Kleinman's lawyers were said to have recommended against taking that step and Kleinman has taken their advice. One lawyer not connected with Kleinman said that because Steinbrenner stopped paying Kleinman's legal bills, Kleinman had given his lawyers a major share of the suit to keep them working. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 22, 1992, on Page 1001031 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Kleinman Keeps Suit, but Loses Pin Stripes.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »