Advertisement 
On Soccer  By                     
 SAM BORDEN
 
MAY 11, 2014
 The institutional memory of sports is typically built one highlight at a time. That is the way we remember players and games and seasons — by what goes right. It is more pleasant that way. This year’s Premier League season was full of goals. It is the first time since 1960-61, in the old Football League Third Division, that two teams scored at least 100 after nobody cracked 90 a year ago. But this season, in which Manchester City won its second championship in three years, may be recalled more for opportunities brutally lost than ones artfully seized. Liverpool. Chelsea. Arsenal. Manchester United. The disappointment was littered across Britain. This is not to diminish City’s mastery. The blue side of Manchester will deservedly cluck Monday after a 2-0 home victory Sunday against West Ham, a result that left City’s captain, Vincent Kompany, to lift the trophy as the Etihad Stadium fans basked in joy. City spent only 15 days of the season in first place, though much of that was because it always seemed a game or two behind its opponents on the schedule (a result of the club’s deep runs in the Champions League, the F.A. Cup and the League Cup). When City finally pounced, there was at least a hint of surprise: Had it really been there all along? Advertisement It had. City scored stylishly and defended stoutly, which is a winning recipe in any year. But in most other places, City’s resurgence was only a secondary story line. Advertisement Even City fans may agree that the tale of the year was Liverpool: A famed club with fans across the world and a history dotted with all manner of emotion was right there, right on the cusp of a stunning title, its first in 24 years. It had a star striker in Luis Suárez. It had a savvy coach in Brendan Rodgers. It had an icon, a beloved English captain, in Steven Gerrard. 
                What would the standings look like in a hypothetical league in which a goal does not count unless it is scored by an English player?             For months it felt as if a miracle on Merseyside was in the works. But the moment it began to slip away was cold and raw: Gerrard, seeking his first league title, stumbled, seemingly innocently, near the halfway line in a crucial match against Chelsea. Within seconds, Demba Ba was upon the unprotected ball and in on goal, scoring for the Blues in a 2-0 victory at Anfield that sent the Reds spinning. No one blamed Gerrard directly. Suárez, who is rarely shy about making clear his frustrations with teammates, quickly found Gerrard after the game and told him there was no need to feel ashamed. “Steven is the player who least needs to start asking for forgiveness from any of us,” Suárez said in a recent interview. “He’s been a great leader. It was a mistake. It happened.” Despite the outpouring of support for Gerrard, though, his error’s impact was unquestionable. Liverpool lost that day, then blew a three-goal lead inside the last 12 minutes against Crystal Palace on May 5. The resulting draw effectively, and swiftly, ended its hopes of a title. Suárez cried. Gerrard, too, appeared broken up. But the Liverpool players were hardly alone in their sorrow. The list of clubs and players that faltered before them was long. What was the worst miss? What was the most cruel moment? Was it Gerrard’s slip? Or was it Chelsea’s disaster at home against Sunderland, an afternoon that looked so perfectly aligned for José Mourinho’s ambitions, only to be his undoing? Then again, maybe the biggest disappointment this year was Arsenal. Yes, sure, there is the F.A. Cup final still to be played Saturday at Wembley. A victory over Hull City would give Manager Arsène Wenger a trophy for the first time since 2005, and anxious Gunners fans would say that is no small thing. But this year promised more for Arsenal. The club spent more time in first place than any other, beginning the season with verve, raising hopes that maybe, just maybe, Wenger had mixed the perfect potion. They were atop the standings in September. October. November. December. Even on into January. Advertisement Then, suddenly, they were gone. They lost, 5-1, to Liverpool. They lost, 6-0, to Chelsea. They lost, 3-0, to Everton, throwing a top-four finish into temporary doubt. Recovering to save that Champions League place was nice, but the chance for something more was in their hands. And then it wasn’t. Manchester United fans, of course, never had their hands on anything (except, metaphorically, David Moyes’s throat). The transition from the Alex Ferguson era was a disaster only made worse by the surges at archrival Liverpool and neighboring City.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. There were other letdowns. Everton talked big about overtaking one of the top four in a year seen as wide open, but didn’t. Southampton had early visions of something special but fell short. Fulham finished 12th last year and had eyes on rising; instead, it was relegated in 19th. Cardiff City won the second division easily in 2013 and will go right back there after finishing last. The most uplifting story, perhaps, is Sunderland’s. The woeful days of Paolo Di Canio’s reign seem long ago, and Gus Poyet’s revival of the Black Cats was stirring. Sunderland beat Manchester United, beat Chelsea and tied Manchester City in a five-match unbeaten streak that pushed it from the cellar all the way to safety. “Can I go another year like these seven months?” Poyet said after Sunderland’s Premier League status for next season was finally assured. “No. I’m strong, but I don’t want to die. I don’t want to have a heart attack. I don’t want to lose any more hair than I have lost already.” After a season overflowing with missed chances, it was a sentiment to which so many fans all over England could surely relate.  A version of this article appears in print on May 12, 2014, on Page D8 of the New York edition with the headline: Manchester City Stands Tall in a Season of Dashed Hopes.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »