Advertisement By PHIL BERGER and  He was fighting before hometown fans and that might have emboldened Meldrick Taylor, the World Boxing Association welterweight champion. Who knows why, but in the Civic Center ring on Saturday night against Glenwood (the Real Beast) Brown, Taylor got himself into the sort of wild-swinging brawl that his superior boxing skills seemed to militate against. It made a rough night's work for him, but Taylor righted himself and, over the final six rounds, used his quickness and ring authority against an opponent whose early assault had ringsiders projecting an upset. Palpitating Hearts Taylor would end up gaining a unanimous decision, but not before causing a few palpitations among the partisan crowd of 3,620 fans, who were obliged to see the local hero incur two early knockdowns and get the worst of those hellbent exchanges into which Brown drew him. Advertisement Brown gave notice early that attention must be paid. In the final seconds of the opening round, he knocked Taylor onto the seat of his black satin trunks. A flash knockdown it was, but the left hook that dropped Taylor was a big-league shot. Advertisement On the other knockdown, in the fourth round, Taylor was caught off balance. And although Taylor's knees did not touch the canvas, his gloves did when he sought to keep himself erect. By the rules, that touch counted as a knockdown. So it went through the first half of the fight. After six rounds, Brown was ahead on the scorecards of two of the three judges. The Rally Begins But with a more tactical, arm's length approach, Taylor was able to rally. For his part, Brown turned strangely passive. Rather than continuing to wing his punches and pursue Taylor as if he were doubleparked -- the early strategy -- Brown fought with a more tranquil air.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Brown would say afterward that he was following his corner's instructions to box, box, box. If so, he followed a strategy for defeat. Taylor insisted afterward that it was his concentrated body attack that took the starch out of Brown. "He couldn't keep up with the pace," Taylor said. "I was throwing two- three-punch combinations. He didn't have the gas to match punches. That's why he was moving away." All three judges -- Patricia Jarman (116-113), Nick Smoger (116-113) and Steve Drake (114-113) -- voted Taylor the winner. Taylor's promoter, Dan Duva, said that Taylor would seek matches against either of the other two welterweight champions -- Buddy McGirt (World Boxing Council) or Maurice Blocker (International Boxing Federation) -- or a rematch against Julio Cesar Chavez, the W.B.C. junior-welterwieght champion. It was Chavez who pinned the only loss on Taylor, when Referee Richard Steele stopped the fight with only two seconds left and Taylor ahead on the judges's scorecards back in 1990. In another bout, Pernell Whitaker (28-1, 13 knockouts), the undisputed lightweight champion, fought as a junior welterweight and won a lopsided 10-round decision from Harold Brazier (78-11-1, 54 knockouts). We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 20, 1992, on Page C00006 of the National edition with the headline: BOXING; Taylor Takes Turn For the Best.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »