The yet-unexplained death of a drum major after the Florida A&M’s band performance on Saturday has prompted the university’s president, Dr. James H. Ammons, to suspend all band activities Tuesday amid reports that a hazing incident might have led to the death of 26-year-old Robert Champion.  The band, known as the Marching 100, has a history of hazing, according to The Orlando Sentinel, and Ammons announced the formation of a task force to investigate “unauthorized and questionable activities” by the band. Champion, a music major from Atlanta, was one of the band’s six drum majors. After a performance at halftime of the Florida Classic in Orlando on Saturday, he was on the team bus outside an Orlando hotel when he began complaining of shortness of breath and vomited. By the time emergency personnel arrived, he was unresponsive and was pronounced dead at an Orlando hospital.  “We are in shock,” the band director Julian White said, in an article on the school’s Web site. “He was a very fine drum major who was of excellent character and very trustworthy. I had not told him yet, but he was slated to be the head drum major next year.” According to the Sentinel article, White said he had dismissed a dozen band members recently because of hazing incidents.  No details of the police investigation into the death have yet been released and the results of an autopsy performed Monday could take up to 10 weeks, according to Orange County officials. An on-campus memorial for Champion is scheduled for Tuesday night at 6:30. 
The Quad is a blog about the fierce competition and engrossing culture of college sports. From the Bowl Championship Series to March Madness, to news and features about one's alma mater or local collegiate team, The New York Times will take readers inside the world of collegiate athletics with interviews, insights and analysis from the tailgates to the locker room. 
			The Quad blog’s content moves to the college football and college basketball pages on nytimes.com. Read more… 
			Joe Mihalich, who has spent the past 15 seasons at Niagara, will replace the fired Mo Cassara. Read more… 
			There is a lot wrong with college basketball, but the N.C.A.A. still provides a lot of great opportunities for young athletes, as was evident again during this year’s tournament.Read more… 
			An analysis of the N.C.A.A. tournament championship game between Louisville and Michigan, based on concepts of sport psychology like big-game experience, leadership behind the bench, leadership on the court, error control and consistency.Read more… 
			Tim Pernetti, the former Rutgers athletic director, discussed the tension between running an athletic business inside an educational institution at a New York University Sports & Society program in November, saying the “human capital” in the department is what can be controlled.Read more… Follow Advertisement