With the N.B.A. lockout rolling through its fifth month, some players not active in Europe are trying to remain in the spotlight at home. This week, LeBron James, Chris Paul, Dwyane Wade and Carmelo Anthony announced a four-city tour of exhibition games, with the proceeds directed to food drives, educational programs and sports clinics. Anthony, Paul and many other stars past and present are also planning to play in the first-ever Obama Classic basketball game. The fund-raiser for the president will be held Monday, Dec. 12, at an undisclosed location in Washington, according to an e-mail from the Obama Victory Fund 2012. Courtside seats to the exhibition game are $5,000 per person, while general admission tickets cost $200. The online form notes that under federal law, best efforts must be made to report the name, address, occupation and employer of individuals who contribute more than $200 in an election cycle. The proceeds from the game will be designated to help the president get re-elected and the Democratic National Committee. Contributors can also designate that contributions go to a specific candidate. Anthony and Paul will be joined by stars including Ray Allen, Vince Carter, Kevin Durant, Baron Davis, Blake Griffin and Kevin Love, as well as retired players like Patrick Ewing and Magic Johnson. Notably, Derek Fisher, the president of the National Basketball Players Association, and erstwhile Los Angeles Lakers guard, will take part. The site of so many stars taking center stage, including Fisher, may be designed not only to help the president, but also to tweak the N.B.A. owners. Yet to be resolved is how a game that has not yet been played can be called a classic. 
			This blog’s regular features, including live game analysis, reader discussion, news and notes from Howard Beck, Nate Taylor, Beckley Mason and others, can now be found on the Pro Basketball section front.Read more… 
			Jason Kidd threw out the first pitch at Yankee Stadium before Game 2 of the Yankees’ doubleheader against the Dodgers, the latest in a multitude of appearances he has made since the Nets hired him Thursday. Read more… 
			With more speed on the floor, Miami smothered the San Antonio Spurs in Game 4, while the Heat’s two biggest stars, LeBron James and Dwyane Wade broke out.Read more… 
			The hiring of Jason Kidd as head coach may be a victory in the war for New York headlines with the Knicks, but it doesn’t seem to be the smartest decision, says William C. Rhoden.Read more… 
			After a news conference on Thursday announcing that he would not run for mayor of Moscow in the fall, Mikhail D. Prokhorov, the Nets’ owner, also said that there was a shortage of N.B.A. coaches with star power.Read more… Follow Advertisement