Advertisement By SCOTT CACCIOLAMAY 20, 2014
 SAN ANTONIO —  Only hours before Game 1 of the Western Conference finals, the San Antonio Spurs’ Kawhi Leonard and Tony Parker remained unconvinced that Serge Ibaka, the Oklahoma City Thunder’s starting center, would miss the game with a calf injury. They vocalized their feelings at the pregame shootaround. It seemed to matter little that Scott Brooks, the Thunder coach, had said (more than once) that there was no way Ibaka would play. The Spurs were determined to prepare as if Ibaka would emerge from the tunnel at AT&T Center, Willis Reed-style, and plant his 6-foot-10 frame under the basket. Of course, Ibaka did not play in the Thunder’s 122-105 loss on Monday. He did not even make the trip to San Antonio, where the Spurs — experienced, wise and old — landed the first blow in the best-of-seven series. Ahead of Wednesday’s Game 2, the Thunder spent much of Tuesday searching for ways to compensate for Ibaka’s absence. “We’re a no-excuse team,” Brooks said. “Serge is out. He’s not coming back. We have to play better.” Advertisement No solutions were readily apparent in the series opener, as Brooks went small for long stretches. One particularly inventive lineup featured three guards (Derek Fisher, Reggie Jackson and Jeremy Lamb) and two forwards (Caron Butler and Steven Adams). That quintet was outscored by 5 points for an early stretch of the second quarter before Russell Westbrook replaced Lamb. Advertisement “We’re going to have to find lineups that work,” Brooks said. If nothing else, the game underscored Ibaka’s importance to Oklahoma City. Ibaka, 24, averaged 15.1 points and 8.8 rebounds during the regular season, largely content to do his no-nonsense work under the basket while Kevin Durant and Westbrook took care of the pyrotechnics and captured most of the headlines. But the Thunder’s championship aspirations took a hit last week when Ibaka strained his left calf in a Western Conference semifinal series against the Los Angeles Clippers. General Manager Sam Presti said he expected Ibaka to miss the rest of the postseason, explaining that the injury could take a month or longer to heal. Every chance he gets, Brooks reiterates the message. “Contrary to what San Antonio was thinking, he’s not coming back,” Brooks said, adding, “He’s not coming through those doors.” Still, there has been no small amount of speculation that Ibaka could make a semi-miraculous appearance against the Spurs. He did, after all, remain in Oklahoma City on Monday to receive treatment. And as much as Brooks has attempted to rebut the notion that Ibaka could return, it could be interpreted as a bit of stagecraft on his part, as a way to get his players to focus on the situation at hand. “It’s not about who we have or who we don’t have,” Brooks said. “We have to play better as a group.” For one game, though, the hard reality was that the Thunder were a mess without Ibaka. The Spurs had a feast at the rim. As Brooks put it, “They were able to get anything they wanted.” Nick Collison replaced Ibaka, and the Thunder tried to aggressively defend Parker coming off pick-and-rolls. If Oklahoma City was hoping to fluster him, it was a misguided strategy — one that also left them exposed against Tim Duncan, who was often the screener at the high post and rolled to the basket for a series of layups. Advertisement “Obviously, it’s a little bit better with him not being in the paint,” Parker said of Ibaka, “but we’re still going to penetrate and make stuff happen.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Duncan scored 21 of his 27 points in the first half, and Brooks kept shuffling pieces. The Thunder had little trouble scoring — Durant and Westbrook combined for 53 points — but offense was not the problem. Their real issue was slowing the Spurs, particularly inside. San Antonio outscored Oklahoma City by 66-32 in the lane. Gregg Popovich, the Spurs’ coach, said his team was not consciously trying to attack the basket in Ibaka’s absence. “Sometimes, it’s hard to focus on something like that and decide you’re going to do that,” Popovich said. “You take what’s given, play the game; just respect the game and whatever’s there, and try to take advantage of that. It just worked out that way.” Popovich did anticipate that the Thunder would try to mix things up for Game 2. “They’re going to have to do some different things, probably; play different people,” he said. Oklahoma City, which lost Game 1 against the Clippers by an identical score, 122-105, showed plenty of resolve by bouncing back to advance in six games. Durant was asked Tuesday if anything felt new to the team in the wake of Monday’s loss. “Well, we woke up today,” he said. “We’re alive.” He and his teammates talked about needing to come together, about playing with greater focus and urgency — the usual platitudes that surface after a disappointing loss. The Spurs were continuing to prepare as if Ibaka was capable of showing up at any minute. “The last thing you want is an impact player like that coming back and everybody being like, ‘What the heck?’ ” the Spurs’ Matt Bonner said. “We try not to take anything for granted.” And so, as the series grinds on, Ibaka’s presence will continue to be felt — one way or another. A version of this article appears in print on May 21, 2014, on Page B15 of the New York edition with the headline: Even Absent, a Big Man Looms Over a Series.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »