Advertisement By GEORGE VECSEY NOT all football games are the same. The coaches may insist they are, but the players are no fools, and besides, the players are the ones wielding the elbows and listening to the yowls from the stands. They know. The hardest games are the traditional rivalries, the ones in the same division, twice a season, over the years. The fans have long memories and the players have short fuses. It is wise to never turn your back. "There's a little more pushing after the whistle is blown," said Everson Walls, the cornerback who has represented two major metropolitan areas, Dallas and New York, against the Washington Redskins. "You've got to watch the cheap shots," he said. "Guys are so psyched, they become a little deaf at times." Advertisement Today is one of those semiannual rituals between the Redskins and the Giants, this one in the state of New Jersey. The Giants are undefeated, and the Redskins need this victory to stay in contention for the playoffs. Advertisement But these two teams would feel the incentive even if they both were so low that they were in line for the first choice in the college draft. The franchises have been playing each other since it was George Preston Marshall's dimes against Tim Mara's dimes back in 1932. The current tally is 65 victories for the Giants, 47 for the Redskins, 3 ties, and a lot of accumulated aggression in the seats. The buildup is highest inside the city President Bush said he likes to escape so he can meet some "real people." It is true that Washington is a theme park with only one industry and one major league team, and the people, real or otherwise, take that team quite seriously. "You feel it when you're landing at the airport," Walls said. "When I played for the Cowboys, you couldn't get in and out of the hotel without security." William Roberts, the soft-spoken offensive guard, agreed there is nothing quite like playing in Washington because "you are so hated." "The people who work in the hotel are always nice to you," he said, "but sometimes somebody will say, 'Y'all gonna go home sad today.' " The passion for the Redskins was apparent to the Cowboys during the two decades when they spread the arrogant word about being America's Team. Advertisement "We would go into a town like St. Louis and find a number of Cowboys fans," said Steve DeOssie, who now plays linebacker for the Giants. "Or Buffalo. It seemed nice to me to be that far north and find Cowboys fans," DeOssie said. "But you'd go into R.F.K. Stadium, and those fans were notorious for being for the Redskins." DeOssie said there are two advantages in a madhouse like RFK: "The visiting team can't hear the signals, the staggered cadences, and, heck, you love playing in your own friendly confines."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Other divisions also have their twice-a-year hard feelings. When he is not protecting the modesty of his sensitive young lads, Sam Wyche, the Cincinnati coach, has managed to build up feuds with both Houston and Cleveland in the division where all four teams usually seem to finish 8-7-1. The longest rivalry of them all is found in the old Frostbite Division, where the Chicago Bears have a 77-57-6 margin over Green Bay going back to 1921. "There's always one team on your schedule you want more than any other," said Dave Duerson, the Giants' reserve safety. "When I played for the Bears, it was the Packers, of course. And when I played for Notre Dame, our big opponent was U.S.C., although of late, it's been the Hurricanes." College teams can unceremoniously dump their opponents if they don't like their manners, the way Notre Dame has scuttled Miami after this season. But there is no ducking anybody in professional football. The Packers usually play three home games in Milwaukee every season, but they traditionally invite the Bears to that fervent little paper-mill town where the Fox River empties into Green Bay. Advertisement "It's like being on an island," Duerson said. "The only support you have is yourself. One of the most pleasurable feelings is taking the fans out of the game." The rivalries become more than bragging rights up in the stands. There is also a history out on the field. "It's not like you're building up a relationship," Roberts of the Giants said, elongating the last word slightly, to make it sound sissified. "But the nature of the game is competition," he added. "If a guy gets the best of you, you want to do it to him next time." Some of the background is pure physical revenge. And some of it is more subtle gamesmanship. Walls remembered his duels with Roy Green, the wise old head with the Cardinals. "Two times a year for 10 years," Walls said, "Green would come out and say, 'Hey, take it easy on an old-timer.' Then all of a sudden he was down in the end zone, at your expense. Next time he came out, he'd just laugh at you. That says it all." Sometimes, through the vagaries of the National Football League schedule, these rivalry games take place only two weeks apart. The Giants considered themselves lucky to escape with a victory in R.F.K. A few of them sensed the slightest extra bit of preparation this week, purely because it was the Redskins coming to town. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 28, 1990, on Page 8008002 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of the Times; The Maras Meet the Marshalls.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »