Advertisement By CLIFTON BROWN and  The Knicks need more from Xavier McDaniel than they have gotten lately. And no one had to tell that to McDaniel today after practice. "I should've come in street clothes and sat in the stands," McDaniel said, talking about his lackluster 3-point effort in Thursday's 92-89 loss to the Cleveland Cavaliers. "It was a waste of time. Maybe I wasn't ready to play." The same could be said about several of McDaniel's recent efforts. The veteran small forward has failed to reach double figures in his last three games, averaging only 6 points during that span. And McDaniel has averaged only 13 points during the last 10 games, reaching 20 points in only two of those games. Can McDaniel be counted on to help Patrick Ewing carry New York's offense, as the Knicks expected when they traded for McDaniel from Phoenix? Is McDaniel's slump temporary, or will his scoring inconsistency last throughout the season? Advertisement Those were the questions McDaniel faced as New York (33-19) prepared to be host to the Denver Nuggets on Saturday night at Madison Square Garden. Earlier in the season, when McDaniel had poor games, he would say that he was still adjusting to his new surroundings.  Adjustment Time Is Over Advertisement But now it is February, four months and 52 games into the season. McDaniel knows the offense, and he is familiar with his teammates. So what is the problem? Both Coach Pat Riley and his assistant coach, Paul Silas, spoke to McDaniel after practice today about being more aggressive. "Paul was telling me that I'm turning down too many shots," McDaniel said. "It's been my fault that I haven't had big offensive nights. "I think I can score on anybody in this league, and that's including Dennis Rodman. You can send that to him in writing or on tape. But I've got to be more aggressive. I blame a lot of it on myself, no one else." If McDaniel does not produce more offense, he will probably be benched in crucial situations. On Thursday, Riley sat McDaniel for the final 15 minutes 40 seconds. Kiki Vandeweghe continued his strong play of late, scoring 17 points. Gerald Wilkins can also play small forward, especially when Riley wants a quicker lineup.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But Riley insisted he still depends on McDaniel. Asked if he would consider playing Vandeweghe more because McDaniel had been slumping Riley said: "No. We're not to that stage. I'll stay with Kiki when he's shooting the ball well. "X has been in foul trouble lately on a regular basis. He has to give us more, but he will. Sometimes he forces the ball on his shot. But when he gets squared up, there isn't a player I have more confidence in. It doesn't make a difference to me what a guy's numbers are, as long as we're winning and we're competitive. I don't go home at night and say, 'Look at X's 2 for 9.' I look at the whole team and say, 'How did the team do last night?' But if a guy goes through two weeks of it, I'll talk to him." Fewer Shots and More Fouls McDaniel has pointed out that in New York's offense, he takes fewer shots than he did when he averaged more than 20 points in four consecutive seasons with the Seattle SuperSonics. But McDaniel has also failed to get open consistently, and he has been prone to foul trouble recently. McDaniel does not dribble as well as many small forwards in the open court, and at times he has relied on his jumper instead of taking the ball to the basket. Right now, it appears McDaniel took a major gamble when he decided to buy out the remaining two years of his contract in January. McDaniel could have averaged $1.8 million during the next two seasons, but instead he exercised the buyout option (which cost him $500,000) and he will be an unrestricted free agent when the season ends. Advertisement Although he has said he wants McDaniel back, the Knicks president, Dave Checketts, has said he does not plan to negotiate with McDaniel's attorney, David Falk, until the season ends. "David Falk asked me how much I think about it, but I don't," McDaniel said. "Whatever happens is going to happen. I told David three years ago that if I didn't have a contract by Jan. 15 to buy it out. I talked to Dave Checketts and he said after the season, we'd sit down and talk about it after the season. So I don't think about it." REBOUNDS JAMES DONALDSON planned to take an early plane Saturday from Dallas to New York in the hope of arriving in time for the Knick game Saturday night against Denver. Donaldson, the newest Knick, is eager to become the quality backup center New York has been seeking to spell PATRICK EWING. His height (7 feet 2 inches) makes him the tallest player in Knick history, but Donaldson hopes to make his biggest contribution on the court. The Knicks acquired him from the Dallas Mavericks on Thursday night in exchange for forward BRIAN QUINNETT, just before the trade deadline. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 22, 1992, on Page 1001034 of the National edition with the headline: BASKETBALL; McDaniel Not Ready or Steady.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »