Advertisement By GEORGE VECSEY GROWING up in New York, New York, was a form of urban orienteering. If you could survive there, you could survive anywhere, as the song might have put it. Bobby Bonilla could even deal with coming over to the other side. He put on his blue Mets No. 25 uniform for the first time yesterday, and said it felt quite natural, even though he had spent the past five full seasons in Pittsburgh, chasing and eventually catching those formerly haughty Mets. This is the wonder of free agency, when many players can go where they want for the highest offer, sooner or later. Oddly enough, this does not always guarantee happy campers, but Bobby Bonilla seems like a man who just might know when to be happy, particularly as the highest-paid player in baseball, at a cool $6.1 million for this season. "If I helped the other guys, that's fine," said Bonilla, who laughed off questions about his waistline, with a "hey-no-problem" attitude, which he says comes straight from the Bronx. Advertisement Bonilla will feel at home playing with such legendary Mets as Bret Saberhagen and Eddie Murray. Before he had ever swung a bat, he was twitted by that grand old Met, Willie Randolph, who looked as if he had been wearing No. 12 in Shea Stadium for the past couple of decades. Advertisement It was a glorious sight, Willie from Brooklyn and Bobby from the Bronx, together again. Just the sight of them yakking it up on the field was enough to totally erase those horrible memories of Strawberry, R.F., and Jefferies, 2B, botching short fly balls because they did not have open lines of communication. Willie is still basically an old Yankee, and Bonilla is a not-so-old Pirate, but the old loyalties do not stand up in the age of free agency. Bonilla also wanted to make the point that he had never heard bad things about the Mets when he joined the Pirates in 1986 and the Mets were roaring to the World Series with a mixture of showmanship and arrogance. Part of the reason was the open admiration between Dave Johnson, the former manager of the Mets, and Jim Leyland, the Pirates manager. By contrast, although Whitey Herzog and Johnson have a fishing business together, their strategy duels produced an edginess between the two teams. The Cardinals used to grind their teeth whenever the Mets conducted curtain calls for bloop singles, and it used to drive the Cardinals nuts when they saw the herd of New York reporters. "I never saw any of that," Bonilla said. "We were a medium-size city, but we made our own headlines."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Some players come to New York and figure they are in a foreign land, but for Bonilla it was home. "See, when we'd play in New York, I'd have my family and my friends at the games," Bonilla said yesterday. He added that he would now surely receive even more advice from his toughest coach of all, his sister, Socorro Walsh, who still lives in the Bronx. Bonilla said he felt no twinges about forsaking the Pirates, who signed him out of high school in 1981. Playing in a moderate television market, the Pirates said they just could not afford New York prices. "It's a big business," Bonilla said with a smile. "The Pirates taught me that. I called Bobby Bonds when I signed with the Mets and he said, 'Bo, where we come from, I'd mow the lawn and sing the national anthem for that.' " Advertisement Bonds just may have the chance to do that after this season, but for now he is still a Pirate, facing the Mets' pitching. "I like us," Bonilla said, making the switch to the Mets. "When we used to play the Mets, you could never catch a break. They had four No. 1 starters. Even now, you look at Cone, Saberhagen, Fernandez. But Doc is the man. He's coming off surgery, but his presence alone helps." Bonilla joked that he wanted to win a Gold Glove playing right field in New York, but he noted, "I've led the league in errors, too." He said he knew there would be criticism from the vocal fans and the vocal press, but he is a 29-year-old star from New York, and he thought he could handle it. "I was at the baseball dinner last month," Bonilla said, "and I heard Duke Snider talking about how he'd gotten on the fans and how he had apologized. Duke said that Danny Tartabull and I would really enjoy playing in New York. I love the idea of playing where Duke and Willie and Lou Gehrig and Babe Ruth played." Bonilla said it all so fearlessly, so openly, that it sounded believable. Then he joined his teammates on the field and was teased by Willie Randolph for something or other. They both laughed. They were speaking the same language. They were speaking New York. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 28, 1992, on Page B00009 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; For Bonilla, No Problems Coming Back.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »