LAHAINA, Hawaii — It’s an interesting scene at the Maui Invitational, which is more than a three-day pre-Thanksgiving basketball tournament that brings together some major programs. This year, it’s also the gathering spot for N.B.A. general managers with a lot of time on their hands. In the sea of sunburned fans at Lahaina Civic Center are a host of N.B.A. general managers and scouts, watching the games to evaluate talent. General managers spotted watching the games Monday included the Celtics’ Danny Ainge, the Rockets’ Daryl Morey, the Thunder’s Sam Presti, the Bulls’ Gar Forman and the Lakers’ Mitch Kupchak. They have come to watch a field with Duke, Kansas, Michigan, Memphis, Tennessee, U.C.L.A., Georgetown and Chaminade. Duke plays Michigan and Kansas takes on U.C.L.A. in Tuesday’s winner’s bracket games. The rest of the teams will continue play in the loser’s bracket. It’s a long way to the 2012 draft, which is also clouded by the current lockout, but front office types are still doing their homework. Some players were making positive impressions on Monday, while others elicited question marks. Michigan’s guards, the freshman Trey Burke and the sophomore Tim Hardaway Jr., looked good against Memphis. Burke handled the Wolverines’ offense with poise, scoring 14 points with 4 assists. And Hardaway showed off a silky-smooth shot, scored 21 points and added 7 rebounds. Kansas’ lanky junior forward, Thomas Robinson, was the star of the opening round, with 20 points and 12 rebounds against Georgetown. He was simply everywhere, showing speed, smarts and a lot of energy to propel the Jayhawks. The conditioning of U.C.L.A.’s sophomore big man, Josh Smith, appears to still be work in progress, as he was huffing and puffing during his limited time on the floor against Chaminade. At 6-10, Smith could really do some damage down low, but isn’t physically prepared enough to make a big difference yet for the Bruins. 
The Quad is a blog about the fierce competition and engrossing culture of college sports. From the Bowl Championship Series to March Madness, to news and features about one's alma mater or local collegiate team, The New York Times will take readers inside the world of collegiate athletics with interviews, insights and analysis from the tailgates to the locker room. 
			The Quad blog’s content moves to the college football and college basketball pages on nytimes.com. Read more… 
			Joe Mihalich, who has spent the past 15 seasons at Niagara, will replace the fired Mo Cassara. Read more… 
			There is a lot wrong with college basketball, but the N.C.A.A. still provides a lot of great opportunities for young athletes, as was evident again during this year’s tournament.Read more… 
			An analysis of the N.C.A.A. tournament championship game between Louisville and Michigan, based on concepts of sport psychology like big-game experience, leadership behind the bench, leadership on the court, error control and consistency.Read more… 
			Tim Pernetti, the former Rutgers athletic director, discussed the tension between running an athletic business inside an educational institution at a New York University Sports & Society program in November, saying the “human capital” in the department is what can be controlled.Read more… Follow Advertisement