Advertisement By MALCOLM MORAN and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES Confused and frustrated, Chuck Cary went to the mound for the Yankees in Cleveland Stadium tonight uncertain of which pitches he was going to throw, how often he was going to throw them, and who would get the credit or blame for their success or failure. It should not come as a surprise that Chuck Cary lost again. Near the end, he was forced to watch a relief pitcher, Alan Mills, walk Brook Jacoby with the bases loaded in the bottom of the seventh inning for an unearned and decisive run in a 2-1 defeat to the Indians. Cary (4-7) allowed one earned run in six and one-third innings and twice left the bases loaded. His screwball, which had become an issue that clouded Cary's mind at the start of the game, was improved according to Manager Stump Merrill and used more often according to the pitching coach, Billy Connors. #27th Save for Jones Still, the defeat was the third in the last four starts for Cary, who has gone without a victory in his last seven starts. Tom Candiotti (11-6) held the Yankees to four hits in eight innings, and Doug Jones earned his 27th save of the season by retiring the Yankees in order in the ninth. Cary's problems in the seventh began with one out, when the rookie first baseman, Kevin Maas, playing in place of the injured Don Mattingly, fielded a bunt by Mitch Webster and made a wild throw that bounced into the first-base dugout. Advertisement Cary was then replaced by Mills, who grabbed a grounder by Sandy Alomar Jr. and made a throw that pulled Maas off first. Mills then walked Candy Maldonado on four pitches to load the bases. He struck out Chris James, but then walked Jacoby to force in Webster with the winning run. Advertisement But Cary's problems had begun before the game did. ''It's the first time in all the time I've been with the Yankees that I felt outside pressure, other than baseball,'' Cary said. ''The first inning, I didn't even want to throw the screwball. I just wanted to throw a normal screwball and leave it at that.'' The day before his start, Cary had grown uncomfortable with a management decision that might have attracted more attention if not for the speculation over the immediate future of Deion Sanders, whose future beyond this week with the Yankee organization remained uncertain. Concern for Feelings Although the pitching coach, Billy Connors, and the bullpen coach, Mark Connor, have been available to work with the pitchers, the organization imported Luis Arroyo, a scout in Puerto Rico and an American League All-Star pitcher with the Yankees in 1961, to work on Cary's screwball. ''I feel like I'm cheating on my wife,'' Cary said. ''They feel it can help me. I'm appreciative of that. But it's nothing that Billy or Mark haven't done. It's what I haven't done. I haven't thrown the screwball. I don't have anything to do with this. I work here. ''My biggest concern is not to have Billy Connors in a bad situation. And if he's in a bad situation, I want him to know I had nothing to do with it.'' Twice in the first six innings, Cary allowed the Indians to load the bases but did not allow a run. Cary walked two batters and gave up a single to fill the bases in the first before forcing Brook Jacoby to pop out to second base.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. A Streak Ends Cary's only early mistake became Alomar's fifth home run of the season, a fly ball just beyond the leap of the left fielder, Oscar Azocar, that ended a stretch of 67Z innings in which Yankee starters had not allowed a home run. Although Candiotti had some control problems with his knuckleball near the start, walking three batters in the first three innings, he held the Yankees to two singles through the first five. Advertisement In the third, Azocar had the first Yankee hit, timing a knuckleball and lining the pitch to the opposite field after walks to Bob Geren and Wayne Tolleson had put runners at first and second. Geren was thrown out at home by the left fielder, Candy Maldonado. The throw was wide of home plate on the third-base side, but was grabbed by Alomar, who reached back to make the tag. Jam in the Sixth Azocar tied the score in the sixth inning with his third home run of the season, a drive into the right-field seats. Cary faced a serious problem in the sixth, when three Cleveland singles loaded the bases with none out. But he escaped again, with the help of a controversial call that inspired loud booing from the crowd of 28,387 spectators. Cory Snyder hit a high bouncing ball up the third-base line that appeared to strike the foul line beyond third base. But the umpire, Larry Young, looking at the spot not far from his feet, called the ball foul. Snyder then grounded into a force at the plate, Jeff Manto popped out, and Felix Fermin grounded into a force at third to end the inning. HARDER HONORED Before the game, the Indians retired the No. 18 that was worn by Mel Harder, who spent 36 consecutive seasons in a Cleveland uniform as a pitcher and coach. Harder, a four-time All-Star who won 223 games, joins Earl Averill (No. 3), Lou Boudreau (No. 5), and Bob Feller (No. 19) as the only Indians to have their numbers retired. In the Old-Timers' game, a sacrifice fly by Dock Ellis drove home Mickey Rivers as a team of Yankees beat the Indians, 1-0. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 29, 1990, on Page 8008005 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL;   Confusion Reigns As Yankees Lose.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »