Advertisement By CLAIRE SMITH and  The scene about to unfold had the potential of a classic World Series confrontation. David Justice of Atlanta at the plate. Runners on first and third. Two outs. Top of the third. Minnesota's Kevin Tapani on the mound, trying to preserve a 2-1 lead in Game 2. But Justice never got to swing the bat because, once again, an umpire's call, welcomed in one dugout, reviled in the other, diverted all attention away from the player and put it on a play and a call. For, just as Justice was preparing to step to the plate for the Atlanta Braves in a game his team trailed, 2-1, the third out was called at first base. And the Twins went on to win, 3-2, to take a 2-0 Series lead. The scene away from the plate developed this way: Justice's teammate, Ron Gant, had just singled the potential tying run to third. As the throw came in from the left fielder, Dan Gladden, and was grabbed by the pitcher, Gant had rounded first. Tapani wheeled and threw to first, causing Gant to scramble back toward the bag and safety. Advertisement Gant caught the bag with his right foot approximately the same instance Twins first baseman Kent Hrbek caught the ball and applied a pretty adamant swipe tag on the runner. For good measure, Hrbek, who outweighs Gant, 253 pounds to 172, wrapped his arm around Gant's leg. And, in what appeared to be a pretty nifty move -- for wrestling -- Hrbek seemed to lift Gant's leg right off the bag as the Braves' center fielder fought to keep his balance. Advertisement Countless times in a season, an infielder in applying a tag will nudge the runner off the base, whether by shear force or momentum or in jestful play (remember big Willie Stargell playing bumper-cars with baserunners who used to come his way in Pittsburgh?). Countless times in those situations, umpires routinely seem to rule the runners safe. This time, in front of a delighted 55,145 at the Metrodome and a national television audience, the umpire, Drew Coble, ruled the runner out. "His momentum was carrying toward the first-base dugout," Coble told pool reporters after the game. "When he did that, he began to switch feet. He tried to pick up one foot and bring the other one down. That just carried him more to the first-base dugout. Hrbek took the throw low and tried to tag him as his feet were coming up, too. As he did that, he just went over the top of him." Explained Hrbek: "He fell on top of me. He pushed me over. That's the end of the story." Gant had a different version. "It doesn't matter what he said," Gant said of Hrbek's explanation. "It was so obvious. He pushed me. Everyone on TV and in the stadium knew I was on the base. I didn't know you could push a guy off the base. The officiating has got to be better. It didn't cost us the game, but you never know what was going to happen."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Atlanta first baseman Sid Bream said he did the same thing to the Mets' Vince Coleman and also got an out call. Atlanta third baseman Terry Pendleton, agreeing it was a push by Hrbek, endorsed the tactic. "If you can get the edge and help him off the bag, so be it," Pendleton said. "This is a game and you're trying to win." Coble, who works the American League circuit during the regular season, got to know the Atlanta Braves up close and personal immediately. For the National League team emptied onto the field as if a fire alarm had been set off in their dugout. Controversies Recalled Just the way the Boston Red Sox did last year when their top starter, Roger Clemens, was ejected from the fourth and final game of the American League Championship Series by umpire Terry Cooney. Just the way the St. Louis Cardinals did when Don Denkinger called Jorge Orta safe at first in the pivotal sixth game of the 1985 World Series. And now comes The Wrestling Match of 1991. Gant argued more vociferously than anyone on the field and, at one point, had to be retrained by his first-base coach, Pat Corrales, and his manager, Bobby Cox, as his teammates and members of the six-man umpiring crew swirled around. No amount of arguing persuaded Coble to change his call, however. Even though the Braves would rally to tie the game in the fifth, the momentum of the third had been stopped, with one of their biggest run producers at the plate. "You don't like to cry about an umpire's decision," Cox said. "But you can' move a player off an occupied bag." As for how the play affected the game that Atlanta eventually lost, 3-2, Cox said Justice "may have gotten a hit. He may have popped up. But at least he would have had an opportunity to do it." Advertisement The Braves may well have a long winter of wondering just what might have been if the owner of 21 regular-season home runs had gotten to swing the bat in anger at a point where the Braves seemed about to come alive instead of dropping his head and walking past an argument Gant and Cox would never win. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 21, 1991, on Page C00004 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Who's On First? Not Gant.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »