Advertisement  Villanova won the battle at the free-throw line tonight at Byrne Meadowlands Arena and went on to upset Seton Hall, 73-68, in overtime. The Pirates shot poorly all evening, connecting on just 19 of 37 free-throw attempts and 23 of 61 field-goal attempts. Nevertheless, Seton Hall led by 11 points after Terry Dehere made a pair of free throws with 2 minutes 20 seconds left in the game. From there, the Pirates collapsed, making just 3 of 12 free-throw attempts in the final part of regulation, including 6 misses in a row in one stretch. With every miss in the final minutes of regulation, Seton Hall Coach P. J. Carlesimo nervously paced the sideline, while Coach Rollie Massimino, whose Wildcats made an impressive 32 of 37 free throws for 86.5 percent, pumped his fists into the air and shouted encouragement. Advertisement "I think if there is a definition of perseverance, it certainly exemplified what our players did tonight," said Massimino. Still Up by Two Advertisement With 19.5 seconds left in regulation, Seton Hall still led by 2 points and had the ball. The Pirates' Daryl Crist then inbounded a pass to John Leahy. But with Villanova players swarming around him, Leahy stepped out of bounds. The Wildcats took over and held the ball for a final shot. With 3 seconds remaining, Chris Walker hoisted a 3-point attempt. Walker's shot bounced off the rim and popped out to center James Bryson, 6 feet from the basket. Bryson released a soft shot that fell through the chords, tying the score at 65-65 as regulation expired. In the overtime session, Lance Miller of Villanova, who finished with a game-high 26 points, hit a pair of free throws to put the Wildcats up by 67-66, their first lead since the midway point of the first half. Moments later, Miller connected on a 14-foot jumper from just inside the foul line to build Villanova's lead to 69-66. The Pirates were through.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Villanova played 45 minutes and we wasted a good effort," said Carlesimo. "We played for 38 minutes. You can miss all your free throws and still win if you play good defense and rebound." Walker celebrated Villanova's victory by running with the ball held high over his head. He flung the ball into the stands and it hit an unidentified fan in the face. The fan required medical attention, and New Jersey State Police told Massimino that the fan had pressed simple assault charges against Walker. Villanova (6-6, 4-1)looked confident and relaxed from the opening tap against a Seton Hall (9-4, 2-3) squad that entered the contest ranked 21st by The Associated Press. The Wildcats, using a man-to-man defense, led by as many as 5 points in the first half, taking a 26-21 lead with 7:20 left in the first half. Advertisement But after a timeout, the Pirates came storming back, putting together an 11-0 run that began with a 3-point basket by Dehere and ended with a layup by Walker that gave Seton Hall a 6-point lead, 32-26. At that point, the Pirates seemed to be taking command of the contest, but the Wildcats stayed within striking distance because of the contrasts in free-throw shooting. Villanova was a perfect 13-13 from the free-throw line in the first half. Seton Hall made just 6 of 12 free-throw attempts. Walker led Seton Hall at the half with 9 points. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 14, 1992, on Page B00009 of the National edition with the headline: BAKETBALL; Pirates Freeze at Line And Lose in Overtime.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »