Advertisement By FRANK LITSKY and  The Giants finished preparations today for their exhibition season opener Monday night against the Buffalo Bills, the team they beat by a point in January in Super Bowl XXV. Now comes question time. Ray Handley wants to know how his rookies will do in their first professional football game. And he is curious how he will do in his first game as a head coach. The public wants to know how Phil Simms and Jeff Hostetler will do in their battle to be the starting quarterback. People also want to know if the Giants will be a contender again, if they will respond to their new coach and many new assistants, if they will avoid being the fat cats they were after they won Super Bowl XXI. The game at Giants Stadium has all the trappings of a major news media extravaganza: It matches the Super Bowl teams. It will be televised nationally by ABC as an early version of "Monday Night Football." It will play to a soldout stadium because the Giants now require season ticket-holders to buy their seats for preseason games, too. Advertisement In fact, it is only an exhibition game. In Bill Parcells's eight years as the Giants' head coach, the team's preseason record was 27-6. Handley does not seem overly concerned with winning now. Advertisement "I'm not going to live or die by what we do in preseason," Handley said last week. "I may be judged by winning or losing, but I don't think it's all you want. "I'd like to win the game, but I'm not going to play Lawrence Taylor or Carl Banks all the way when we want to look at Kanavis McGhee and Bobby Abrams. We have a lot of questions to answer." Let's examine one question at a time: Curiosity and the Coach For seven years, Handley was Parcells's offensive backfield coach. When Parcells resigned in May, Handley became the head coach. He seems to be enjoying the job, but now comes the true test: games. "I'm curious," he said, "but I don't think it will be a lot different. I will have to make decisions, but I'm not in the dark about them. I hope to approach things very businesslike and keep emotions out of it. "I'd like to win the ball game. I don't think I would go into a state of depression if we don't. I would not like to be judged on one exhibition game, but I doubt I will have that luxury." Players tend to test a new coach. If they could not get away with something under the old coach, can they get away with it under the new one? There seems to be little of that in the Giants' camp. For one thing, Handley has been with the Giants longer than most of the players. In addition, this is a mature team. It has good leadership from veterans who know the rewards within reach. Advertisement The one thing Handley has not had to do yet is make big decisions during a game. Does he run on fourth down at midfield? Does he take a sure field goal from the 1-yard line or try for a touchdown? Which play does he want in which situation? "My credibility with the players is not a concern," Handley said. "I'm sure there are some questions in their minds. I'm sure they want to see me under fire, to see if I can make the right decisions in critical situations. "I'm not really worried about credibility in preseason games. I may look at plays and evaluate particular schemes. I may run a play eight times and not like it eight times. I've told this to the players." Taking Success in Stride When the Giants won Super Bowl XXI after the 1986 season, they became celebrities. They wrote books, led cruise tours, made countless appearances and became men about town. They paid a price. In 1987, they lost their first two games. Then came the players' strike, and their amateurish replacement team lost its three games. "When you're 0-5," said Bart Oates, the Giants' center then and now, "you can't dig out of a hole like that." The Giants finished that season with a 6-9 record. It was, Oates said, "too little, too late." This time, the Giants were almost placid after their Super Bowl victory. They took success in stride, a sign of maturity.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "On that 1987 team," Simms said, "we had players who were ready to retire. A lot of talent is here now. We have a lot of big players." Script for a Quarterback In 1986, Simms was a good quarterback just beginning to prove himself and Hostetler was an unhappy bench warmer who had not thrown a pass in his three seasons (his streak would continue one more year). Now, each has led the Giants to a Super Bowl victory. Advertisement Each is talented. Each, although sometimes quick tempered, is a team player. Handley has promised Hostetler a chance in preseason to win the starting job from Simms. The two quarterbacks are satisfied that the new coach has treated them fairly and will continue to do so. Against the Bills, Simms will start, stay for an undisclosed number of plays, then leave for Hostetler, then return, then give way to Hostetler again. Matt Cavavaugh will probably finish the game. Handley has scripted some plays, with one script for Simms and another for Hostetler. He let the quarterbacks help select plays they were comfortable with. Handley does not want the quarterback battle to become a distraction. The other players seem confident with both quarterbacks and have taken the competition in stride. "It will play itself out," Handley said. Simms agreed. "Even when the preseason is over," Simms said, "I think it will be hard to differentiate between us." Youth in Motion Ed McCaffrey will start against the Bills at flanker. Clarence Jones will start at offensive tackle if Eric Moore's bruised thigh keeps him out of the game. Handley said he would give a good amount of work to Jarrod Bunch, Corey Miller and Anthony Moss, among others. "I want to see how young players respond to the increased level of play," Handley said. "It will be a whole new world for them. Some will raise their games." Bunch, the first-round draft choice, has been in camp only since Wednesday. Still, he will play some at fullback against the Bills and is also scheduled to play on all the special teams. Advertisement "It's not a make-or-break game for any rookie," Handley said, "but someone could lose some opportunities by not playing well. I want to see them all a couple of games. "Two years ago, a rookie had trouble in the first preseason game fielding punts. We didn't rule him out." For anyone who has forgotten, that rookie was Dave Meggett. He quickly became the leading punt returner in the National Football League. Sorting It All Out Handley's major concern is to see his tight ends. With Mark Bavaro's career apparently over, Handley ranks Howard Cross No. 1 and Zeke Mowatt No. 2. That seems to leave holdover Bob Mrosko, Richard Ashe, Mark Hopkins and rookie Ted Popson fighting for one job. Handley is also trying to sort out running backs, linebackers and defensive backs. At running back, Rodney Hampton's nagging hamstring strain will keep him out of the game. McGhee, Miller and Moss, the precocious rookie linebackers, will get a good look. Although Everson Walls will start at right cornerback, he will also work at free safety The Giants who won Super Bowl XXI were a dominant team. The Giants who won Super Bowl XXV were not dominant, but a good team that kept winning big games. After three weeks of training camp, the current Giants seem to be a good team, too. The veterans have been businesslike and many rookies have been impressive. The players seem to be impressed by Handley's fairness and candor with them and seem to be enjoying him. Now come the games, or at least the preseason games. Four weeks from now the real games begin. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 5, 1991, on Page C00001 of the National edition with the headline: FOOTBALL; Sure, It Won't Count But a Lot Is at Stake.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »