Advertisement By TIMOTHY W. SMITH Immediately after he was cut by the Los Angeles Raiders in 1989, receiver James Lofton called six other National Football League teams, but only one, the Philadelphia Eagles, invited him to try out. Lofton packed several suitcases, containing clothes for about six weeks, confident that he would nail down the job. "I went in and ran a couple of low 4.4's," Lofton said. "I met with the offensive coordinator and he went over the position I was going to play and they were going to sign me. I was all excited. We met for about an hour and 15 minutes and they showed me the playbook. After the meeting, Buddy Ryan came downstairs and said, 'We don't have a spot for you right now.' " As he lugged his luggage back to the airport for the return trip to Los Angeles, Lofton didn't consider the possibility, but Ryan might have saved Lofton's career. Advertisement "When I look back on it, if they had handed me the pen and the contract, I would have signed, and I probably would have been done by now, because that wouldn't have worked out well for me there," the 35-year-old Lofton said recently. Since '89, a Rejuvenation Advertisement In 1989, he eventually signed with the Buffalo Bills. And now, in his third season with the Bills and his 14th over all in the league, he is experiencing the rebirth of a once-brilliant career that was tarnished by scandal in Green Bay and left to wither in Los Angeles. Lofton had 57 receptions for 1,072 yards this season, his first 1,000-yard receiving season since 1985, his fifth year with the Packers. He was on only two winning teams in his nine seasons with Green Bay, which drafted him out of Stanford in 1978, but today, he is preparing for his second consecutive trip to the Super Bowl. Here is Lofton's situation in Buffalo: He's the deep-threat receiver on an explosive team that is ranked No. 1 in the league in offense and has one of the best running backs in the league in Thurman Thomas, one of the best quarterbacks in Jim Kelly and one of the best possession receivers in Andre Reed. A Career With Strange Twists "I was talking to a friend of mine recently," Lofton said. "And he said: 'A lot of people would have looked at your situation in 1989 and said your football career had been destroyed, because you'd been cut from the second team you'd been with. God has other plans for you. It might be in football. It might be in something else.' We laughed about that." The strange twists and turns of Lofton's career have indeed appeared to be the work of some higher power at times. But until recently, there has been little to laugh about. Lofton was a standout receiver under Coach Bill Walsh, a three-time track all-American and, as an industrial-engineering major, an academic all-American at Stanford. His N.F.L. career got off to a glorious start. The Packers picked him in the first round of the '78 draft, and he capped that season by being named the National Conference rookie of the year and a Pro Bowl player. Over his next eight seasons with the Packers, Lofton was named to the Pro Bowl six more times and turned in five 1,000-yard receiving seasons. Advertisement He worked extensively in the Green Bay, Wis., community, serving on the board of directors of the Milwaukee Ballet, becoming a spokesman for the United Way in 1983 and producing his own local television program. Scandal Leads to Trade But things unraveled for Lofton in 1986 when he was charged with sexual assault after an incident in a Green Bay bar. At the time, the Packers were already reeling from publicity surrounding a sexual-assault charge against defensive back Mossy Cade. They suspended Lofton with one game left in the 1986 season.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Lofton was later acquitted of the charge, but by then, he had been traded to the Raiders for next to nothing: a third-round draft pick in 1987 and a conditional fourth-round pick in 1988. "They just thought it would be tough for me to stay there," Lofton said of the Packers' motivation. "And with the stance that they took, perhaps that I was guilty before I was proven innocent by suspending me, I don't know if they were covering their tracks or doing what they felt was best for them." Robert E. Harlan, the president of the Packers, was executive vice president of administration at the time Lofton was traded. He said the small-market society in which the Packers exist forced Judge Robert J. Parins, then the team president, to jettison Lofton and Cade. "We had terrible p.r. and marketing problems after those cases," Harlan said. "Companies that had been associated with us for years began to pull out. The public backlash was tremendous. It was quite an unfortunate thing, but the feeling at the time was it was probably best for all involved if we could get James to another place." Lofton, who was born in Fort Ord, Calif., and attended Washington High School in Los Angeles, returned home in 1987 to a team that had no room for him. "Two guys had been stars and starters on other teams, myself and Willie Gault," Lofton said. "And we had Mervyn Fernandez, who had been Canadian League m.v.p. and we had Tim Brown, who had just won the Heisman Trophy." Lofton, who was 33 at the time, was waived in 1989. About the same time, the Raiders released receivers coach Nick Nicolau, who latched on with the Bills. "I looked up one day and he was on the street, didn't have a job," Nicklau said. "They had fired James Lofton." Advertisement Lofton was watching a Monday night football game involving the Bills, and when it was announced that receiver Chris Burkett had walked out of a meeting and quit the team, his ears perked up and he got on the phone. Nicolau persuaded the Bills to bring in Lofton for a tryout. Lofton wanted to know one thing from Nicolau: How many suitcases should he pack? "The only thing that I was very sure of was that he was better than some of the receivers we had here at the time," Nicolau said. Last year, Lofton had 35 catches for 712 yards and four touchdowns and had five catches for 113 yards and two touchdowns in Buffalo's 51-3 victory over the Raiders in the A.F.C. championship game. Thus far, he is 3-0 against the Packers and 2-0 against the Raiders since leaving those teams. It is odd that Lofton's career has rebounded in Buffalo, a city much like Green Bay, where the community closely follows the on-field and off-field activities of the players. "If anything, I've found greater success than anytime before," Lofton said. "Individual success is one thing, being All-Pro is very nice, going to the Pro Bowl is a great honor. But none of it replaces winning and the respect that you get from being on a winning team." Nicolau doesn't see why Lofton can't play as long as he wants. "He's like that classic car," Nicolau said. "If you care for it and change the oil it runs forever. He's a great model for our guys. Our young guys see him and say, 'Imagine what you can do if you don't abuse yourself and you work hard.' " We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 19, 1992, on Page 8008003 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL; The Decline and Return of James Lofton.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »