Advertisement By TIM ROHANMAY 24, 2014
 Eric Campbell had planned to go golfing with his father. It was June 2008, and as a tall, athletic third baseman from Boston College, Campbell was expected to be selected before the 15th round of the baseball draft. But instead of obsessing over where he would be taken, he decided to ignore the thing. Campbell missed the Mets take Ike Davis in the first round, Kirk Nieuwenhuis in the third and Josh Satin in the sixth. Then, by chance, just before he left his house, he checked his computer and found that the Mets had drafted him in the eighth round. Six years later, Campbell is the only one of those four on the roster. He made his major league debut two weeks ago and already has sent a jolt through the team. In his first nine games, he batted .350, drove in six runs, hit a home run and made a game-saving, diving catch in left field in his first game. The Mets have already pegged him as a “supersub” who potentially can play eight positions. If his ascent continues, he might fill the void that Davis, Nieuwenhuis and Satin could not — as a right-handed bat the Mets can play occasionally in the outfield and platoon at first base with Lucas Duda. Advertisement His coaches describe Campbell, 27, as a quiet, cerebral player who needed time in the minors to develop into a reliable hitter. They say he is playing this well because he had to work for it. Advertisement Campbell pointed to one moment, soon after he was drafted, as a turning point. With David Wright at third base and Davis at first, Campbell knew his best chance to make the majors would be if he played multiple positions. But in his first few weeks with the Brooklyn Cyclones, the Mets’ Class A team, he was not playing as much as he wanted. Finally, he approached his manager, Edgar Alfonzo, and volunteered to play the outfield. The next several years, as he worked his way up the system, he grew comfortable playing five positions: third base, first, second, right field and left. To manage all those positions while improving as a hitter, he developed a meticulous routine. He arrived to the park at the same time — early. He ate the same things, which, he said, meant “a lot of peanut butter sandwiches and protein shakes.” He took grounders on the infield, fly balls in the outfield and swings in the batting cage. He strove for the same mind-set every time he came to bat. As he walked to the batter’s box, he reminded himself where to keep his hands, to quiet his swing, to keep his timing down and what he needed to know about this particular pitcher.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In 2012, something clicked. In his second full season with Class AA Binghamton, he batted .297. The next year, with Class AAA Las Vegas, he batted .314 and had a .435 on-base percentage. Throughout his minor league career, he did not show much power, but he hit left-handed pitching and proved he had a good eye at the plate. His manager in Las Vegas, Wally Backman, called him a winner. Before coming to the Mets this year, Campbell hit .355 in 33 games with Las Vegas. Backman played him at six positions, including shortstop. “He didn’t care where he played,” Backman said. “He just wanted to play.” Campbell’s coach at Boston College, Mik Aoki, said he was a good teammate and a humble person, the type of player who could fit into any clubhouse. It was there that his teammates started calling him Soup. Aoki also liked his dry sense of humor, calling Campbell “a good, sarcastic Northeasterner.” Wright said Campbell fit in smoothly with the Mets now because he stuck around so long during spring training. Campbell batted .304 and stayed in the mix long enough for their two exhibition games in Montreal. He also won the John J. Murphy award, given annually to the Mets’ top rookie in his first spring training. Advertisement Manager Terry Collins has talked about Campbell as if he were a new, shiny toy. Campbell seemed to win Collins over when he volunteered to work as a catcher, in case he was needed in an emergency. Collins also seems intrigued about possibly playing him at second base and shortstop, where he has not played much. “I’m sure I’d be fine,” Campbell said. “It’s just fielding a ground ball and throwing to first.” Is it possible, Collins was asked, that Campbell will play all nine positions? “I don’t think so,” he said, grinning. “But you never know.” A version of this article appears in print on May 25, 2014, on Page SP3 of the New York edition with the headline: A Met Finds a Place on the Diamond: Everywhere.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »