Advertisement By DAVID WALDSTEINMAY 11, 2014
 MILWAUKEE —  C. C. Sabathia had swelling in his right knee after his start May 4, but he did not mention it to anyone because the Yankees’ rotation had already been hit with so many injuries. When he felt more pain in his knee in Saturday’s game against the Milwaukee Brewers and encountered more swelling, he spoke up. Sabathia, who had surgery in 2010 to repair a torn meniscus in the knee, had a magnetic resonance imaging test Sunday that did not reveal a tear. He was told he had inflammation in the knee and was placed on the 15-day disabled list. He will have fluid removed from the knee in New York on Monday. The Yankees have already lost Ivan Nova for the season with a torn ligament in his elbow, and Michael Pineda is on the 15-day D.L. with a strained muscle in his upper back, near his shoulder. “It’s tough,” Sabathia said. “That’s why I didn’t want to say anything. But I think I was doing more damage to the team by trying to hide it.” Advertisement Manager Joe Girardi said that Alfredo Aceves would most likely move into the starting rotation in Sabathia’s absence. Matt Daley was called up from Class AAA Scranton/Wilkes-Barre to take Aceves’s place in the bullpen.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Because of the swelling, Sabathia may have another M.R.I. to get a clearer picture of the knee. “It got pretty big on me after Sunday and then last night,” he said, “so of course I was a little nervous.” Advertisement Sabathia has struggled the last two seasons to find his old form. On Saturday, he gave up three home runs in a 5-4 loss to the Brewers, and after five starts his earned run average is 5.28. Without Sabathia, Pineda or Nova, the Yankees will rely on Aceves, Vidal Nuno and David Phelps, who struggled in Sunday’s 6-5 loss to the Brewers. “Other guys are going to have to step up,” Derek Jeter said. A version of this article appears in print on May 12, 2014, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Sabathia Put on Disabled List.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »