Advertisement By SAMUEL ABT and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES Greg LeMond lost control of the Tour de France for 20 kilometers today, but he and his Z teammates rallied to prove the adage that professional bicycle racing is an individual sport practiced by teams. How LeMond managed to save the day, and probably his second successive victory, illustrates the superb teamwork that has surrounded him. He earned that cooperation. When he found himself trailing a teammate, the Frenchman Ronan Pensec, by 10 minutes only a week ago, LeMond played a team game. Subordinating his personal ambitions and his role as team leader, he gained widespread respect by riding on Pensec's behalf. Together at the Finish Now his unselfishness is being repaid. At the end of the day, LeMond was still second over all, five seconds behind the leader. Because his team labored so hard for him in the Pyrenees, LeMond was able to make up seven lost kilometers and finish in the same time as the rest of the leaders. They were all 5 minutes 31 seconds behind the winner, Dimitri Konichev of the Soviet Union, who is rumored to be planning to join the American 7-Eleven team next season. Advertisement Konichev came into Pau one second ahead of Johan Bruyneel. Third, 11 seconds back after a muggy day in the mountains, was Steve Bauer, a Canadian with 7-Eleven and the wearer of the overall leader's yellow jersey for 10 days early in the race. Advertisement None of the riders ahead of the leaders are contenders for the final victory. The three-week race ends Sunday in Paris. Awaiting Next Time Trial LeMond, who is from Wayzata, Minn., is sounding extremely confident of victory. Speaking of Saturday's time trial, or race against the clock, which is expected to be the showdown, he said of himself and the leader, Claudio Chiappucci, ''If I lose, I'm going to have a very, very bad day and he's going to have the best day of his life.'' Both nearly took place today. LeMond's scare occurred when the rear tire of his bicycle punctured at kilometer 77 of the 150-kilometer race, which coursed over two mountains between Lourdes and Pau. Before he could get going again, he had lost 1 minute 6 seconds to Chiappucci. Then Eric Boyer and Jerome Simon of Z caught up to LeMond after a team mechanic had replaced the wheel. Far ahead in a breakaway, two other Z riders, Gilbert Duclos-Lassalle and Atle Kvalsvoll, were told by their team manager to stop and wait for LeMond to reach them.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. When he did, the five-man group stormed up the final kilometer of a climb and down the other side of the 3,635-foot peak. A Shared Task Taking turns at the front to set a faster pace than one man could alone and letting the others draft in the slipstream and save energy, the chasers caught Chiappucci in about 25 minutes. This was no more than any team is expected to do for its leader. But Z did it with extra zeal, and not only because of the prize money it will share if LeMond wins the race. It was in the mountains where LeMond benefited and where he gave. On the climb to L'Alpe d'Huez a week ago, for example, when he finished second and Pensec was far behind, LeMond would not work with a leading group to improve his finishing time. Advertisement Manager Is Pleased He gained back only 48 seconds of the 10 minutes by which he trailed. He might have made up minutes easily, at the cost of helping Pensec's opponents gain that time, too. ''Greg proved he's a team player,'' his team manager, Roger Legeay, said. The French press and public hailed him, a leader making $1.5 million this year, for protecting a French teammate making a third of that who is simply not in LeMond's class but who was wearing the yellow jersey. Other riders and team managers agreed. ''Greg worked for me, and now it's my turn to work for him,'' said Pensec, who has since fallen to 10th place. ''It's like a football team,'' LeMond said. ''You have players, and you have to use the players to your advantange. It's not just short-term.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 19, 1990, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: Rallying in the Pyrenees, Team Repays LeMond.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »