Advertisement By JEFF Z. KLEINMAY 21, 2014
 In probably no other sport is the team captain as revered as he is in hockey. N.F.L. teams often have multiple co-captains who sort of blend together. Baseball captains are sometimes named and sometimes not (Derek Jeter became the Yankees’ captain after the job was vacant for years). And soccer captains wear armbands that are tossed from player to player, depending on who is subbed out of a game and who is subbed in. But in hockey, the captain has always been marked for all to see. He’s the one with the big letter C sewn on the front of his sweater, the one expected to lead by word and example, and — if the season ends in the ultimate triumph — the one chosen to first lift the Stanley Cup. The Chicago Blackhawks have the lionhearted Jonathan Toews, who has already hoisted the Cup twice. Another stalwart player, Dustin Brown, captains the Los Angeles Kings, the Blackhawks’ opponents in the Western Conference finals; Brown has lifted the Cup once. In the East, the Montreal Canadiens have the workmanlike veteran Brian Gionta at captain. The Rangers, however, have no captain at the moment, the job left vacant since Ryan Callahan was traded in March. That, however, has not prevented them from staging a rousing playoff run that has left the club just two victories from the Stanley Cup finals. And what the Rangers do have is three players who wear an A, for alternate captain: Brad Richards, Dan Girardi and Marc Staal. Advertisement So far, it seems to be working. Still, a captains-by-committee approach stands in sharp contrast to the leadership model practiced 20 years ago, when the Rangers last won the Cup. Advertisement Back then, the team was led by a consummate hockey captain, Mark Messier, a square-jawed, iron-willed, larger-than-life player who vowed the Rangers would win when they stood one game from elimination in the playoffs, scored three goals in that game to back up his guarantee and then led the team to its first championship in 54 years. When he picked up the Cup after the Game 7 victory over the Vancouver Canucks in the 1994 finals and flashed his vast, thousand-watt smile, the C on his sweater was right there in every photograph, impossible to miss. Indeed, practically every team that has won the Cup since it was first donated by Lord Stanley of Preston in 1893 was led by a captain or co-captains. Among the exceptions were the 1970 and 1972 Boston Bruins, who were led by Phil Esposito, Bobby Orr and Johnny Bucyk but had no official captain. When the Cup was awarded in those years, it was handed to Bucyk, who wore an A and was the longest-serving Bruin. It is too soon to speculate about who on the Rangers might be given the Cup to lift should they actually win it this year. First, they have to get to the finals, behind their alternate captains and anyone else who wants to step forward. “I don’t believe on any team you need guys to have letters to lead,” Coach Alain Vigneault said Wednesday. “Leading is the ability to influence people to do the right thing. If you have that influence and you have that ability, you don’t need to have a C or an A on your sweater.” The only players on the ice allowed to confer with the officials are those players who wear a C or an A; each team may have a total of three. But their most important duties are internal, involving how they deal with their teammates. Besides Richards, Girardi and Staal, the Rangers’ roster features two former N.H.L. captains, Martin St. Louis and Rick Nash, and a player seen as a future captain — Ryan McDonagh. None of them dominates the room the way Messier did, but a message is still getting across. Advertisement “It just works,” Richards said of the current arrangement. “I don’t know how to explain it. We just make sure that things get done. I don’t think it’s any different than if you did or didn’t have a captain, especially this time of the year. If something needs to be said and someone thinks they need to say it, then you help out the best you can that way.” Richards, 34, patient and well spoken, deals unstintingly with reporters in English and French. He was signed as an expensive free agent in 2011 and is widely admired by his teammates — so much so that when John Tortorella, then the Rangers’ coach, benched him during last season’s playoffs, Tortorella basically lost the team. He was fired right after the season ended. Girardi, 30; Staal, 27; and McDonagh, 24 — all defensemen — are, like Richards, relatively easygoing off the ice. St. Louis, on the other hand, is intense. He was named captain of the Tampa Bay Lightning at the start of this season, but he gave up that title when he came to the Rangers in the Callahan trade. It is believed to have been the first captain-for-captain trade in N.H.L. history. At 38, St. Louis is widely admired within the league (last season he became the oldest scoring champion in N.H.L. history), and he is especially looked up to by French Canadian players. He was quickly accepted into the Rangers dressing room as a close friend of Richards, with whom he won a Stanley Cup with the Lightning in 2004.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. And St. Louis’s ties to other Ranger players became stronger after the death of his mother on May 8, while the playoffs were underway. Her funeral last Sunday in Quebec was attended by the entire team. “Richie’s been great preparing us from game to game, and now Marty coming in — he’s been great, too,” Staal said of Richards and St. Louis. So what are the things a captain can do? “You don’t want to stress anybody — you want people to be loose,” St. Louis said. “It’s trying to keep guys calm but at the same time focused.” He added: “Leadership is not just talking. Leadership is actions, and we have a lot of that. It’s not just one guy who gets a C on his jersey.” The Rangers will try to do it without the C, as unconventional as that may be by hockey standards. Six more victories, and they break the mold. And, of course, lift the Cup, with someone on the team — the players will figure it out — going first. A version of this article appears in print on May 22, 2014, on Page B11 of the New York edition with the headline: Rangers’ Missing Letter.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »