Advertisement By JOE SEXTON and  On Friday night, after their enervating 8-2 loss to the Padres, the Mets would not offer cliches in explanation. And so, neither could they offer much hope. The loss, their fourth in a row and the latest in a series of hopeless routs, left the Mets seven games behind the Pirates in the National League East. The deficit is the largest the Mets have stared at all season, and it's the farthest they've been from first place since June 16, 1990. "There's nothing you can point to that's a positive for this team right now," said Dave Magadan, the first baseman. "We're struggling in all phases of the game: offense, defense, pitching. Everybody's had a hand in it. We've played worse, but that was in April. This, obviously, ain't April." And while it just as surely wasn't October, the mood in the clubhouse after Sid Fernandez had become the team's latest mound failure was icily sober. Don't Have to Search Advertisement "A while back, we we're finding ways to lose," said Kevin McReynolds. "Now, we don't even have to find ways to lose. We're getting our rear ends kicked, night in, night out." Advertisement Meanwhile, the Pirates continue to win. They watched the Mets make a run at them with 10 straight triumphs, yawned and then reeled off 7 straight of their own. With their victory Friday night against the Astros, the Pirates are 11-3 since the All-Star Game break, and their 59-34 record for the season comes close to dwarfing the next-best record in all of baseball. And it should be said that most of that record was achieved without the expected contributions of pitcher Doug Drabek and left fielder Barry Bonds. Both are now on rolls and are thus likely to be all the more lethal in the second half. "It's sickening to keep looking up and seeing that they've won again," said Bud Harrelson, the Mets' manager. "It's not looking good right now." In fact, the Mets looked in their rear-view mirror today and saw the Cardinals only a game behind them. 1990 All Over Again "We're getting romped every time we go out to face someone," Magadan said. "It's starting to feel like last year when we kept saying we had all these games against Pittsburgh to make up ground. We can't believe that again." The math all around is tough to digest. For instance, were the Pirates to play no better than 35-34 over their final 69 games of the season, the Mets would have to finish 40-27, a roughly .600 clip of baseball they haven't been able to sustain all season.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Moreover, it is hard to survey the Mets and locate sources of promise, identify players who might be expected to turn up their level of performance from here on out or note trends that might jolt them out of their descent out of the race in the National League East. It is difficult, after all, to imagine Howard Johnson doing more in the second half than he did in his enormously productive first. It is inconceivable to project McReynolds outdoing his supremely steady manufacturing of clutch hits and decisive runs to date. Hubie Brooks, who hit 14 home runs in the first half, is 34 years old and is bound to suffer some falloff in performance as the season drags on. By way of example, he has 3 hits in his last 19 at-bats and has all of one homer since the All-Star Game. Advertisement Perhaps Magadan, who has suffered physically all season and who Friday night was busted down to seventh in the order, will turn around his season at the plate. Maybe Gregg Jefferies, who was benched Friday night after going 1-for-12 and costing the Mets six unearned runs against the Giants, will at long last stand and deliver. "There's not much you can say," said Rick Cerone, the veteran catcher. "But I don't think there is anyone in this clubhouse who thinks it's absolutely over." After the shellacking they took Friday night, the Mets had given up 28 runs in the four losses with which they began their plummet through California. In losing six of their last eight, they had been clocked for 55 runs. Their rotation, now populated by the considerable questions marks otherwise known as Wally Whitehurst and Fernandez, has been dominant for about 2 of the season's 16 weeks. Fernandez was the latest culprit, although his fortunes weren't aided by Harrelson's managing. Hit hard at the beginning of the bottom of the sixth inning, in only his second start since returning from a broken arm, the left-handed Fernandez was left in to face a string of right-handed hitters. What resulted was a sacrifice fly by Benito Santiago, a two-run homer by Darrin Jackson and defeat. Strangely, Harrelson explained his decision to allow Fernandez to continue by citing the following: his career numbers against Santiago; a "look in Fernandez's eyes" that convinced him that the left-hander had the personal determination to get out of the jam, and because he "got caught up in wishing for a guy to come up with a positive." "Wishing" in a game that threatened to dump the Mets seven games back of the team with the best record in baseball? The remark can only be interpreted as a measure of how shallow Harrelson's confidence in his bullpen runs. In his defense, the manager has been saddled with what amounts to an understaffed corps of relievers because of the continued presence of Doug Simons. Harrelson clearly is not prepared to use the rookie left-hander in any even marginally critical situation and so Simons has done not much more than take up a spot on the roster for weeks. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 28, 1991, on Page 8008005 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Mets, Distant Second, Get That Floundering Feeling.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »