Advertisement By JOHN F. BURNSMAY 19, 2014
 LONDON —  The chief executive of England’s Premier League, Richard Scudamore, escaped dismissal Monday after a panel controlled by Britain’s top 20 professional soccer clubs ruled that “no further disciplinary action” was necessary in respect to emails he exchanged with others that were laced with coarse sexual innuendo about women. Scudamore, 54, apologized last week after a woman he had fired after two months as his personal assistant last fall passed copies of emails taken from his Premier League email account to The Sunday Mirror, a widely circulated tabloid. The publication of the emails set off a furor that led to widespread punishment demands from women’s organizations and female players, equal rights campaigners and prominent politicians. The lenience shown to Scudamore was in stark contrast to the approach taken by the commissioner of the N.B.A., Adam Silver, in the controversy that erupted last month over racist remarks by Donald Sterling, the owner of the Los Angeles Clippers. Advertisement In each case, statements made in private became public. But while Scudamore’s apology and pledge that the actions would not be repeated were enough to satisfy the Premier League’s clubs, the statements in the Sterling case — tape-recorded by a female friend — led Silver to ban Sterling from the league for life, impose a $2.5 million fine and begin a process to force him to sell his interest in the Clippers. Advertisement The former Premier League employee who handed the Scudamore emails to The Mirror, Rani Abraham, said in a follow-up article in The Mirror on Sunday that she had done it because she felt “humiliated, belittled and disgusted” by the messages in Scudamore’s account and felt that she “had a duty to speak out.” Abraham, 41, has said that monitoring Scudamore’s email account was part of her duties as his assistant. But the league ruling sparing Scudamore from punishment offered another account, one that appeared to have played an important role in its decision. “These emails were private communications between friends of long standing,” the ruling said, and Abraham “was not exposed to them in the course of her duties but had to search for them in a private email account that she was not authorized to access.” The emails under review by the Premier League panel included a string of crude references to women’s physical attributes, some of them originated by Scudamore and others in which he was responding to remarks made by others in the email chain. In another email, Scudamore referred to “female irrationality” when women have children.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. For the Premier League, the episode was the latest in a succession of controversies in recent years that have involved allegations of racist and sexist outbursts by players, coaches, referees and spectators and have kept the league in the headlines for reasons other than the intensity of its on-field competition. But few outbursts have generated the outrage that erupted when the spotlight was turned on Scudamore. In his 15 years as operational chief of the Premier League, the league has become the wealthiest in world soccer, with a worldwide television audience in the tens of millions that has generated new revenue streams undreamed of in the generations before satellite broadcasts gave Britain’s top clubs a global fan base. Scudamore was paid about $3 million last year. A recognition of Scudamore’s value to the league seemed implicit in the decision to keep him in his job. Meeting at the league’s headquarters in London, the panel said that it had polled each of the league’s clubs on Scudamore’s actions and that “in the light of a previously unblemished record over 15 years of service to the Premier League, the clubs resolved unanimously that no further disciplinary action is required or justified.” Advertisement It said the panel had reviewed “a very large quantity of emails and other documents” and found that the material “did include some inappropriate remarks by the chief executive, for which he immediately apologized.” “The clubs agreed that such remarks should have no place in the Premier League’s working environment.” However, it added: “Responses from many women in employment at the Premier League, and extensive consultation with others, establish that there is no climate of disrespect of women in the workplace. This view is particularly strongly held by female staff with direct experience of working with or close to the chief executive, who have made it very clear that his conduct and behavior have been beyond reproach.” A relieved Scudamore issued a conciliatory statement after the ruling. “Entering into email exchanges of this kind was wrong, and the apology I have made is sincere, as is the contrition I feel,” he said. “These exchanges do not reflect my views towards women in football, the workplace or in general. It is something that will never be repeated.” A version of this article appears in print on May 20, 2014, on Page B16 of the New York edition with the headline: English League Won’t Act on Chief’s Emails.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »