Advertisement 
Sports of The Times  By                     
 WILLIAM C. RHODEN
 
MAY 11, 2014
 By the time I arrived at Radio City Music Hall in Manhattan on Saturday, the sixth round of the N.F.L. draft had started, but Michael Sam had still not been selected. The team that took Sam, an all-American defensive end at Missouri, would be the league’s first to draft a publicly gay player. No team had raised its hand. Seattle passed with the 227th pick, early in the seventh and final round, and you could understand why: The Seahawks already had a great defense. Washington, picking next, chose a kicker from Arkansas. Detroit, a perennial loser, also chose a kicker. Advertisement Perhaps Pittsburgh would step forward at No. 230. The Steelers, though, with Coach Mike Tomlin’s job perhaps in danger, took a tight end from Massachusetts. Advertisement Indianapolis, at No. 232, has an owner who entered a drug rehabilitation center in March and perhaps did not want more attention devoted to off-field matters. Miami, two spots later, seemed a possibility, a team in need of redemption after the Richie Incognito bullying scandal. The Dolphins did take a defensive end — from Marist. Maybe Dallas, which passed at No. 231 but was picking again at 238, would choose Sam. After all, Jerry Jones, the Cowboys’ owner, is always up for making headlines. Instead, the Cowboys drafted a linebacker from Texas Tech. And so it went, Denver taking an Oklahoma linebacker at No. 242, San Francisco selecting a Boston College defensive end at 243, Dallas skipping over Sam again at 248. This had the makings of a horrible day for a league already up to its eyeballs in moral and ethical questions about the safety and the culture of the sport. Finally, around 6:45 p.m., Mike Kensil, the N.F.L.’s vice president for game operations, strode to the lectern to make a historic announcement: With the 249th pick of the draft, the St. Louis Ramshad selected Sam. “It was somewhat overwhelming to walk out,” Kensil said after the draft. “I really felt like I was a part of N.F.L. history. It was a memorable moment, and I really felt honored to be a part of it.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Asked if he was concerned that Sam might not be drafted, Kensil said: “I don’t know if we were concerned about it. He’s a good player. St. Louis realized he was a good player, and they were smart enough to take him.” Advertisement Kensil added, “Anytime you get the SEC defensive player of the year in the seventh round, that’s a pretty good pick.” And that is precisely why the N.F.L. doesn’t get a parade: Sam should have been taken three rounds earlier. You cannot acknowledge the Southeastern Conference as the best college football conference, as the N.F.L. has, and then let one of its top players be drafted behind kickers and players from obscure programs in obscure conferences. “As is the case in the draft, sometimes players fall,” Rams Coach Jeff Fisher said in an interview with NFL.com. “He fell.” So why did Sam, a 6-foot-2, 261-pound senior pass rusher, fall? His off-the-field conduct was apparently stellar: no firearm violations, no driving-under-the-influence arrests, no reports of domestic abuse or barroom brawls. Especially after his mediocre performance at the scouting combine in February, critics said he was too slow to play linebacker in the N.F.L. and too small to be an effective lineman. Sam may have been overlooked, though, because of his sexual orientation. Even teams that had no problem with Sam’s being gay might have been wary of the possibility of a news media distraction and of a public-relations quandary, real or imagined. Still, players and fans have recently been able to see how public outrage and scrutiny can influence an entire league’s behavior. Two weeks ago, the N.B.A. barred the Los Angeles Clippers’ owner, Donald Sterling, for life and fined him $2.5 million for racist comments he made in private. On Saturday, the N.F.L. made history with Sam’s selection. In each case, the leagues had little ethical wiggle room. Had Sam not been drafted, the N.F.L. would have had much explaining to do. After the draft, I asked myself which was more captivating: Sam’s being drafted or Johnny Manziel’s being repeatedly passed over in the first round. I must admit that there was a guilty pleasure in watching Manziel sweat and stew as teams cast vote after vote for substance over style. For all the attention on Sam’s sexuality, the vanity embodied by Manziel poses a greater challenge to the American soul. In a sense, both players got what they were due: acceptance for Sam and an indictment for Manziel. Viewed through that prism, the draft was a triumph of enlightenment over entitlement. Advertisement The N.F.L. did the right thing by Michael Sam; I only wish it would have done the right thing a little sooner. Email: wcr@nytimes.com A version of this article appears in print on May 12, 2014, on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: A Triumph of Enlightenment ... Eventually.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »