Advertisement By JANET NELSON Snow may be the stuff of skier's dreams: giant flakes that Nature supplies to assure deep, powdery landscapes and a white Christmas. To many of these dreamers who live in the Northeast's major metropolitan areas, this winter's warm temperatures, rain and lack of snow have meant a ski-less nightmare. But to ski area operators -- and skiers -- who know snow can be stuff shot from guns and blown from jet engines, the truth is, there has been plenty of machine-made snow and plenty of skiing, even at marginal temperatures, all season. "This year, more areas opened in November and had good snow cover over Christmas than last year," said Morrie Trumble, who has been reporting snow conditions in the Northeast since 1972. "Warmer temperatures and rain have been a problem in the past couple of weeks, but the mountains had cold weather for snow making in December." "We've had temperature spikes and rain," said Bill Wilson of the Berkshire Hills Conference, the tourist board of the area in Massachusetts and lower Vermont, "but we've had more natural snow than last year and temperatures at night have been well below freezing, so areas made snow and they have lots of trails covered." Catskill areas report the same situation with the edge of storms bringing rain or snow, but with snow making possible most nights. Hunter Mountain, N.Y., for instance, has 40 of its 47 trails covered with snow and has been operating since Nov. 5. In New Jersey, Vernon Valley has had spring-like days, but enough cold nights to put snow on 35 trails. Advertisement The New England region has been getting snowfalls of 4 to 6 inches fairly regularly, and a few falls in the far north have been 12 to 14 inches, but in past years, big storms were 30 inches or more. The up-side of the mild weather has been that warm daytime temperatures make snow soft and managable. Advertisement Snow making has been around for more than 30 years, but it has been only in the last 10 years that the technology has advanced to the point where ski areas have been able to put down enough snow to make a difference in quality as well as quantity.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Of course, faux snow is an attractive alternative for skiers only when Nature doesn't come through. Machine-made snow is denser than natural snow, which makes it more resistent to rain and skier traffic, but it is neither as soft nor as fast as the real stuff. "A two-foot dump would improve the machine snow a lot," said Nils Ericksen, a ski resort consultant from Cuttingsville, Vt. "But when the areas compact natural snow with groomers, 8 to 10 inches won't last as long as machine snow where there's heavy traffic." As for the coming weekend, after a severe cold snap like yesterday's, snow making allows ski areas to remake icy slopes into soft, snowy down. "In the next few days, we can expect frozen granular to blue ice," said Phil Gravink, director of ski operations for Cannon Mountain and Mount Sunapee in New Hampshire. "We'll be putting down new machine snow and grooming with power tillers to break up the surface." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 16, 1992, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: SKIING; Snow Makers Compensate For Nature's Balmy Days.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »