Advertisement By JOSEPH DURSO and  Black Tie Affair, who closed his 1991 racing season and his career with six straight victories at six different tracks, won perhaps the most important contest of his life today when he captured the Eclipse Award as the 1991 Horse of the Year. The 5-year-old traveler, bred in Ireland, owned by Jeffrey Sullivan and trained by Ernie Poulos, won horse racing's highest honor in a three-way struggle with international overtones: He outpolled Arazi, the brilliant juvenile who raced sensationally in France last year, and Dance Smartly, the Canadian filly who won all eight of her races. But the two losers for the ultimate award won major comfort. Arazi, already the favorite for the Kentucky Derby, was named the champion 2-year-old colt. And Dance Smartly, who set a North American record by winning $2.8 million last year, was named champion 3-year-old filly. Bow Tie Retired Poulos, who always wore a black bow tie to the races to salute his star horse, said today that he had wanted to keep racing Black Tie Affair after he won the Breeders' Cup Classic last Nov. 2. But, he added: "Mr. Sullivan wanted to retire him, and I think he was right. But I'm also retiring my black bow tie." Advertisement Champions were crowned in 10 divisions of the Eclipse Awards, which are the Academy Awards of the racing business and which carry long-term rewards in breeding status. The votes are cast in three blocks by members of the Thoroughbred Racing Associations, the National Turf Writers Association and the Daily Racing Form. Advertisement The winners were announced at the annual T.R.A. convention in Las Vegas, Nev., and were carried by closed-circuit television to race tracks round the country. The other major Eclipse Award winners were Housebuster as the sprinting champion, Hansel as the best 3-year-old colt, Ron McAnally as the leading trainer and Pat Day for the fourth time as the leading jockey.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Eclipse Awards are customarily accompanied by intrigue because few horses dominate an entire year of racing, or even an entire division. And the electoral strands were tangled this year. Arazi was bred in Kentucky but then headed to France, where he won six straight after losing by a head in his first start. So he was already an international star when he made his debut in the United States last Nov. 2 in the Breeders' Cup Juvenile. And it was a memorable debut. Racing on dirt for the first time, racing counterclockwise for the first time, he blazed from 14th to first place and won by five lengths. But in the final voting, the juvenile colt and the Canadian filly were confronted with a senior horse who got better and better last year while others fell by the wayside. Black Tie Affair outran Housebuster at Keeneland in April. He outran Farma Way in the Iselin handicap at Monmouth in September. He outran Summer Squall in the Washington Park handicap at Arlington Park two weeks later. And in the Breeders' Cup Classic, he outran everybody. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 2, 1992, on Page 8008003 of the National edition with the headline: HORSE RACING; Black Tie Affair Wins The '91 Gallop Poll.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »