Advertisement  JOE SEXTON, Kevin Mitchell's bat was a blur and then so was the baseball. Wally Whitehurst dived for cover, but didn't find it, the line drive smashing into his right thigh in the fifth inning. Whitehurst lay on the mound and covered his eyes against the hurt and the afternoon. The Mets' pitcher, who had done nothing right from the opening inning, ended his day by becoming the perfect metaphor for the team. "I felt like I'd been shot," said Whitehurst, whose status for his next start is in doubt because of the serious bruise he incurred. "And numb is how I feel now." Ferocious Assault He had company. The Mets, whose starting pitching absorbed a ferocious assault in this three-game series with the Giants, were trashed, 8-1, today and thus swept for the first time this season. Advertisement Hit hard and ultimately leveled, the Mets departed for San Diego with their distance from the first-place Pirates in the National League East swollen to six games. Advertisement "We stunk, and in all departments," said Manager Bud Harrelson. "Ditto every day. We gave the Giants an early lead, and then we had to catch up. We don't do better, and this is going to be one miserable trip." For Whitehurst, it was one humiliating and frightening afternoon. The right-hander, who has lost each of his three starts since Ron Darling was traded and he assumed the unchallenged mantle of the team's fifth starter, gave up three runs in the first inning, another in the fourth and then had injury heaped onto the indignity when Mitchell's line drive sent him to the clubhouse in the fifth. A Low Rocket "I can only say I'm glad it didn't get me in the upper half of my body," Whitehurst said of the rocket that caromed away for a single. "There was no way I could get out of the way." None of the Mets escaped much of anything all week, the most artless of the dodgers being their starting pitchers. Frank Viola was lighted up for four runs and a pair of homers and sent to the showers after five innings in Tuesday night's 4-2 defeat. David Cone was hammered for seven runs in two innings in Wednesday night's 8-4 defeat before mercy by the Giants and sense by the Mets allowed him to avoid further damage after only four innings. And then today Whitehurst was behind, 3-0, before he recorded an out. Over the last seven games, the Mets, who have lost five of them, have yielded 46 runs; their starters have been victimized for 29 runs in 37 innings.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Somebody's always been able to stop it in the past," Cone said of the team's starters. "For us collectively to falter is really hurting us. How quickly it's turned around." The Mets couldn't turn around quickly enough to catch the baseballs the Giants had flying around in the first. After a leadoff walk, Kevin Bass singled, Will Clark doubled home a run and Mitchell made it 3-0 with a single to right. Advertisement "It was 3-0 before I knew it," Whitehurst said. Others who had been witness to Whitehurst's two previous starts might have guessed that it would happen. Whitehurst had pitched capably from the start of the season, but had absorbed losses in his first two starts in the aftermath of Darling's trade. He has now given up four or more runs in each of the three starts, his earned run average an unsightly 6.89. "I have no explanation for the last three," said Whitehurst, whose record is 5-7. "I've run into some bad luck. But I don't think anything has changed except my record, which is going in the opposite way from what I want." The Mets had one arguable chance to reverse the direction of today's game in the fifth when Rick Cerone singled and Kevin Elster doubled with none out. But with the score 4-1, men on second and third and no clear-cut r.b.i. man among the next three batters, Harrelson allowed Whitehurst to bat. The pitcher grounded out to first, Keith Miller flied out to first and Garry Templeton lifted a fly out to right to sink the inning and the afternoon's most legitimate threat against Trevor Wilson. "Hindsight now would tell you maybe I should have hit for him," Harrelson said. "And if my bullpen was in better shape and hadn't been pounded the way I've had to pound it lately, I would have." Whitehurst's injury finally forced Harrelson to go that bullpen. And the Giants went wild against it. Tim Burke gave up five hits and two runs in less than two innings. And then John Franco yielded a pair of unearned runs when he was sent in for an inning of exercise in the eighth. "Is this team sliding backward?" Cone asked. "We're in danger of it." INSIDE PITCH The Mets activated center fielder VINCE COLEMAN from the disabled list late Wednesday night and optioned infielder KELVIN TORVE to Tidewater of the International League. Coleman, whom the Mets signed to a four-year $11.95 million deal during the off-season, had been out since June 14 with a torn left hamstring. The Mets, who are 30-28 with Coleman, went 23-13 without him. Coleman pinch hit and grounded out in the ninth today. . . . TREVOR WILSON's home run off WALLY WHITEHURST in the second inning was the first of the pitcher's career. . . . GREGG JEFFERIES went 1 for 12 in the series with a pair of errors at second base. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 26, 1991, on Page B00007 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Whitehurst Hit Hard as Mets Go Numb.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »