Advertisement  Sampras moved with his family from Potomac, Md., to Rancho Palos Verdes, Calif., when he was 10 to foster his tennis career. Along the way, his father, Sam, departed from conventional teaching practices and sought specialists in each stroke who could build the strongest support systems for his son. In 1987, for instance, Sampras switched from a two-handed backhand to a one-handed shot with the belief the one-hander offered more versatility. The varied approach to learning the game left Sampras somewhat vulnerable to more advanced juniors like Chang and Agassi, whose games were rooted in rigid ground strokes. ''I wasn't really expecting to be in the top 10 in the world at age 18,'' Sampras said after the Australian Open. ''I'm overshadowed, but that's fine with me. I think it's good for me. I think the pressure's on Agassi and Chang and I'm just going to go slowly but surely and work my way up the rankings.'' But as yesterday's five-set victory over Ivan Lendl demonstrated, Sampras may be the most complete player, stroke-for-stroke, of any young American, with the potential for long-term greatness. Advertisement A 'Laid-Back' Attitude If anything, Sampras's relative modesty, in a sport that tends to weed out mental shortcomings, may have inhibited his progress. ''My whole family is laid back,'' he once said when asked about his relatively no-big-deal attitude. ''I get it from them.'' Advertisement But the 6-foot Sampras has shown consistent improvement over the last two years. At the 1989 Open, he outlasted Mats Wilander, the defending champion, in five sets in a second-round upset. This year, while improving his computer ranking, he toppled John McEnroe in three sets at a tournament in Toronto - in what he described at the time as the ''biggest win of my career'' - and won a singles title in Tokyo in June.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Unlike Agassi and Chang, Sampras also seems more motivated by the traditions of the sport. ''I'm not play ing for money,'' he said after beating Tim Mayotte for his first pro title at the Ebel U.S. Pro Indoor in Philadelphia. ''I'm playing for the love of the game. And I think I'll keep playing for love of the game for 8 or 10 years.'' Young Players Emerge Sampras's victory over Lendl, coupled with the performances of Agassi and David Wheaton, mark the strongest showing of young American players in recent years. Yet Sampras's improvement has come as much from his patience and family commitment as from any national support. And Sampras has always retained his priorities about what the game has meant. ''No one remembers who won Philadelphia or Memphis,'' he said after his initial victory over Mayotte in Philadelphia. ''Where you make your name is the Grand Slams.'' Yesterday, Sampras treated his victory over Lendl with the same level-headedness. ''Now I'm in the semifinals and this is what I worked for the whole year, to do well at the U.S. Open,'' he said. ''I wasn't too overwhelmed or intimidated with the idea of playing Lendl today. I wasn't playing Ivan Lendl. I was playing another match.'' And now he has yet another match: a Grand Slam semifinal. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 6, 1990, on Page B00020 of the National edition with the headline: Tennis;   Sampras, at Age 19, Shows Classic Style.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »