Advertisement By JOE LAPOINTE The final play of ESPN's first baseball season was a lot like the entire six months of ESPN's rookie year: exciting, different, challenging, inconclusive and frustrating. This coverage blunder concluded the Boston-Chicago game Wednesday night as the Red Sox clinched the American League East title with a 3-1 victory. With two outs in the ninth inning, Ozzie Guillen's fly ball drifted into the right-field corner of Fenway Park, sinking and hooking toward the foul line. As the tying runs sped toward home plate, Tom Brunansky of the Red Sox ran under the ball. He fell to the ground and skidded across the grass. The ball hit his glove, then both he and the ball went out of camera view, behind the part of the grandstand that juts out. Advertisement A Bit of Indecision ''The Red Sox win!'' shouted Gary Thorne, the announcer. Suddenly, the tone of his voice changed. ''No! He dropped the ball! He dropped the ball!'' Advertisement There was a long moment of confusion, at least for the announcers and the viewers. Fans jumped from the stands and surrounded Brunansky. The announcers still did not say whether or not the game was over - although there was no doubt in Boston that the only thing Brunansky had dropped was his cap. What about a replay? ESPN had forgotten the fundamental rule every Little Leaguer learns on the first day of practice: keep your eye on the ball. ''We made a conscious decision to gamble and we lost,'' said Diane Lamb, an ESPN spokeswoman. ''There were two outs and two strikes. We had six replay machines with cameras. We had our cameras mostly focusing on people for reaction shots. We were vulnerable on that little patch of ground in right field and that was where the ball went.'' 'Murphy's Law Struck' Steve Bornstein, ESPN's president and chief executive officer, said that ''Murphy's law struck. What used to happen to the Red Sox happened to us.''  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. It was an ironically appropriate conclusion for ESPN's first season under its new four-year contract. For all its timely reporting and wide scope of coverage, ESPN's experience was disappointing. The ratings were low, about 70 percent of what ESPN had projected, said Bornstein. Because of this, advertisers got extra commercial time, a rebate, of sorts. ESPN could lose up to $40 million on the first year of a $400 million deal. Furthermore, for fans who cannot get cable or cannot afford it or choose not to buy it, 1990 was the season in which baseball almost disappeared from free television. Instead of a game of the week through most of the summer on over-the-air television, CBS scattered 16 regular-season games among its basketball playoffs, football games and tennis matches. Good Blend in Coverage ESPN's coverage was by no means a disaster. Despite the camera gaffe on Wednesday's finale, the telecast over all was excellent, a spellbinding blend of live action, commentary and replays mixed with the scenes and sounds of fans. Advertisement Throughout the season, showing baseball five nights a week, ESPN was slick, cutting around - live or on tape - to no-hitter conclusions, triple plays, brawls and key home runs in many cities. But the ratings made ESPN's coverage a little like the tree that fell in the forest. If no one was there to hear the tree, was there really any sound? Now, for the playoffs and World Series, the national pastime resurfaces on CBS, which is a novice at post-season coverage. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 5, 1990, on Page A00028 of the National edition with the headline: Did You Catch What TV Missed?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »