Advertisement  AP Charlie Hayes and Von Hayes hit homers and Philadelphia scored the winning run when Pittsburgh couldn't turn a potential double-play grounder in the ninth inning. The Pirates, losing a chance to regain a first-place tie with the Mets in the National League East, lost their fourth game in a row and their fifth in six games. The Phillies, who have won the first three games of the four-game series, led by 3-1 in the fourth, but the Pirates tied the score on bases-empty homers by Bobby Bonilla and Andy Van Slyke. Bill Landrum (3-2), the Pirates reliever, retired Carmelo Martinez to start the ninth, but Charlie Hayes and Ricky Jordan singled, sending Hayes to third. Advertisement A pinch-hitter, Darren Daulton, then bounced a grounder to the third baseman Jeff King, who had an easy play at the plate but elected to try to turn the double play. King got Jordan at second, but Daulton beat the throw to first by a half-step as Hayes scored. Advertisement Jeff Parrett (4-9) allowed Van Slyke's tying homer in the eighth, but worked one and two-thirds innings for the victory. Joe Boever, recently acquired from Atlanta, finished up in the ninth for his ninth save and second in as many nights. The Phillies' starter, Bruce Ruffin, had lost three successive decisions and four of his last five, but held the Pirates to five hits and two runs in six and one-third innings, lowering his earned run average in Pittsburgh this season to 1.88. Giants 3, Reds 2 SAN FRANCISCO (AP) - Kevin Mitchell singled home the winning run with two outs in the 11th inning as surging San Francisco sent Cincinnati to its sixth consecutive loss. San Francisco has won the first three of a four-game series, cutting the Reds' lead in the National League West to six and a half games, their smallest since June 13. The Giants have won all six games at Candlestick Park and are 7-2 against the Reds, the only team to hold an edge over them. Dave Anderson led off the Giants' ninth with a home run against Tom Browning, tying the score at 2-2. Ernest Riles, pinch-hitting, opened the 11th with a check-swing infield single. Randy Myers (3-2) struck out Brett Butler and Rick Leach, but Will Clark singled Riles to second. Mitchell followed with a bloop single to center on a 3-2 pitch. Advertisement Tigers 17, Red Sox 9 DETROIT (AP) - Larry Sheets hit a bases-loaded triple in a 10-run sixth inning, Detroit's biggest outburst since 1983, as the Tigers outslugged Boston. Sheets drove in a career-high six runs. He hit a three-run homer in the first. The Tigers overcame a 9-5 deficit by bunching six hits, five walks and an error in the sixth. It was Detroit's biggest inning since the Tigers scored 11 runs in the first inning against Baltimore on Sept. 20, 1983. Boston scored five times in the first against Frank Tanana, but Sheets's three-run homer against Mike Boddicker began Detroit's comeback. Boddicker left after one and one-third innings with a sore right elbow. Paul Gibson (3-2) got the victory and Dennis Lamp (3-3) took the loss. Lamp won all 11 of his previous decisions against the Tigers since 1981.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Lou Whitaker started Detroit's big inning with a one-out walk from Dana Kiecker. Dave Bergman and Alan Trammell singled for a run, and Lamp came in to pitch. Cecil Fielder walked to load the bases and Sheets had a grounder that hit the first-base bag and rolled into the corner for a three-run triple that made the score 9-9. Lloyd Moseby walked, Chet Lemon and Mike Heath hit run-scoring singles, Tony Phillips drew a walk from Jerry Reed and Whitaker hit a two-run double. The last run of the inning scored when Wade Boggs, the third baseman, misplayed a grounder by Bergman. White Sox 5, Brewers 4 CHICAGO (AP) - Ozzie Guillen's two-run single in the ninth inning gave Chicago the victory. Ron Karkovice opened the ninth with a double off Dan Plesac (2-4). Scott Fletcher beat out a bunt single, sending Rodney McCray, a pinch-runner, to third. Carlton Fisk, a pinch-hitter, walked to load the bases. Guillen followed with a single to center field. Advertisement Athletics 4, Twins 1 MINNEAPOLIS (AP) - Dave Stewart pitched a six-hitter to post successive victories for the first time in more than two months as Oakland won the opener of a doubleheader. Stewart (13-8) was 8-1 after 10 starts but hadn't won two in succession since May 19 and 24. He pitched his sixth complete game, walking none and striking out four. Royals 10, Orioles 9; Orioles 3, Royals 1 KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) - Cal Ripken, the Baltimore shortstop whose record errorless string ended in the first game, atoned with a tie-breaking run-scoring single in the eighth inning of the nightcap that helped the Orioles to a split of the doubleheader. The Royals scored five times in the seventh, capped by Kurt Stillwell's two-run homer, to win a wild opener a game that included 14 walks, six doubles and four home runs. The nightcap was delayed three times by rain for a total of 1:58 before Phil Bradley singled off reliever Steve Farr (8-5) to start the eighth, was sacrificed to second by Joe Orsulak and scored on Ripken's two-out single. Ripken's fifth-inning error in the opener snapped his record streaks of 95 games and 431 chances without a miscue. The split left the third-place Orioles four games behind first-place Toronto in the American League East. Rangers 3, Blue Jays 2 TORONTO (AP) - Harold Baines hit a bases-empty home run in the 13th inning to give Texas the victory. Advertisement The Rangers, stung in the ninth when Toronto rallied for two runs, won it when Baines hit his 10th home run with two outs against Frank Wills (5-3). Brad Arnsberg (4-1) gave up one hit in one and one-third innings for the victory. John Barfield got the last out for his first major league save. Cubs 10, Expos 7 MONTREAL (AP) - The Cubs' Shawon Dunston tied a modern major-league record with three triples, including one in Chicago's tie-breaking three-run ninth inning. Dunston, who drove in five runs, also had triples in the fifth and sixth innings. He entered the game with two triples for the season. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 29, 1990, on Page 8008004 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL;   Phillies Extend Pirates' Losing Streak to 4.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »