Advertisement By JORGE ARANGURE Jr.MAY 11, 2014
 The only encouraging thing about the Mets’ play recently was that they had been able to put runners on base, which had somewhat tempered the panic of their losing ways. “Just a hit away” became a common refrain in the Mets’ clubhouse. But it hardly mattered how many runners the Mets put on base, because they could not find a way to bring them to home. The Mets finally got that hit — and the run — they needed in the 11th inning Sunday when Ruben Tejada singled to score Chris Young and send the Mets to a 5-4 comeback victory against the Philadelphia Phillies at Citi Field. The win ended the Mets’ five-game losing streak. Before Tejada’s hit, the Mets had stranded 36 runners over all and were 6 for 36 with runners in scoring position in the three-game series against the Phillies. The Mets now head into Monday’s Subway Series opener against the Yankees on a positive note. “This may be the win that gets us going,” Manager Terry Collins said of his team, which had lost eight of nine games entering Sunday. Advertisement After the game, Collins said his team celebrated loudly in the clubhouse. “The energy level is unbelievable,” Collins said. “It hasn’t been that high in a long time.” Advertisement The Mets entered the ninth inning trailing, 4-1, and having stranded 11 runners through the first eight innings. But Eric Young Jr. began a ninth-inning rally against Philadelphia reliever Antonio Bastardo — Phillies closer Jonathan Papelbon was unavailable — with a double to left field. Daniel Murphy followed with a two-run homer that cut the deficit to one run. Murphy finished the day with three hits and reached base five times. Two batters later, Chris Young hit a double off the left-field wall, snapping an 0-for-18 streak, to put the tying run in scoring position and prompt the Phillies to replace Bastardo with Roberto Hernandez, who had started Friday’s game. For a second, Young thought he had ended the game with a home run, but the ball landed a few feet under the top of the fence. “I knew I hit it low, but I thought it would sneak out,” Young said. Bobby Abreu then singled to send Young to third, and Juan Lagares’s groundout scored Young to tie the game at 4-4. The 11th-inning rally began with Young’s infield single. The Mets eventually loaded the bases, which brought up Tejada, who entered Sunday’s game in an 0-for-16 slump.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Last week, Tejada lost his starting shortstop role to Wilmer Flores. The only reason Tejada was in Sunday’s lineup was that Flores had flulike symptoms. Tejada smacked a single to left field against Phillies reliever Jeff Manship for the win. “It was really good for me after a tough week for me and the team,” he said. Advertisement The Mets seemed more relieved than anything after the game. The losses had begun to bring frustration. Most maddening was how close they had come to winning each game during their five-game skid. Four of the five losses had been decided by one run. “In those close games, you always find something you did wrong,” Chris Young said. The Mets had numerous opportunities to break through Sunday. They had runners on base in every inning but the second and fifth. They quickly gave back a 1-0 first-inning lead after starter Jon Niese issued back-to-back doubles to Wil Nieves and Cody Asche in the second inning. The Phillies took the lead in the fourth on a botched throw at home. The inning began with Ryan Howard’s infield single. Marlon Byrd followed with a double to put runners on second and third. The next batter, Domonic Brown, hit a ground ball to the rookie first baseman Eric Campbell, who tried to nab Howard at home. The throw arrived in plenty of time but was up the third-base line. Howard was able to elude the tag by catcher Anthony Recker to give the Phillies a 2-1 lead. Nieves’s groundout to shortstop scored Byrd to stretch the lead to 3-1. The Mets were also running out of players. Reliever Gonzalez Germen was unavailable because of the stomach flu. The only pitcher they had remaining was reliever Carlos Torres. The Mets had no more position players available. But the Mets overcame all their shortcomings Sunday. “Obviously, that was much needed,” Niese said of the win. All they needed was a hit at the right time. An earlier version of this article misstated the length of the Mets’ losing streak ahead of Sunday’s win. It was five straight, not six. A version of this article appears in print on May 12, 2014, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Mets Finally Bring a Runner Home and End a Five-Game Skid.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »