Advertisement By CLAIRE SMITH For the better part of a week, some of the New York Yankees' limited partners expressed their desires, publicly and privately, that the swirl of uncertainty surrounding a team be stopped. That, these partners said, could easily be accomplished if only baseball commissioner Fay Vincent would let George Steinbrenner resume control of the team when the resignation of his successor, Robert Nederlander, became official yesterday. But that was not about to happen. So, in last-minute maneuvers, the partnership took what is obviously an interm step. Thing is, their solution may well have accomplished the seemingly impossible. By choosing Daniel R. McCarthy, Steinbrenner and his fellow owners may have muddied the picture all the more. McCarthy has one thing in common with the deposed Steinbrenner and Leonard Kleinman, the team's chief operating officer. All three have sued major league baseball, Vincent or those associated with Vincent's investigation of Steinbrenner back in 1990. And that little fact is heavy baggage, indeed, for anyone attempting to get the favorable nod needed from the commissioner's office. Advertisement And guaranteed, McCarthy, a limited partner as well as Steinbrenner's tax lawyer, must win approval of other teams before he can officially assume leadership of the team. So the partnership must wait and see if that is possible. And nothing that is been tried by that group, by Steinbrenner, by Kleinman, to this point has proven to be successful. Advertisement Steinbrenner has made it known to the commissioner he wants to petition for reinstatement. Vincent has said that won't happen until all the lawsuits go away. The one filed by McCarthy and another limited partner, Harold Bowman, did, in mid-December. But Kleinman's $30 million suit against Vincent has not, in part because Vincent refuses to promise that action won't be taken against Kleinman for his having sued in the first place. And Steinbrenner's $30,000 suit against a transcribing company is still alive, also, because assurances against repercussions or hints about favorable rulings on reinstatements cannot be secured from Vincent, either. The uncertainty is again causing Steinbrenner to apparently hint at new legal action even as he still tries to clear away the two old suits.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Vincent, when asked if he felt there were any immediate questions concerning McCarthy's nomination, said yesterday evening: "Sure there are. One arises from the fact that he sued me. The second comes because he lives in Cleveland. But at least the Yankees have made a choice. I and the members of the ownership committee will look carefully at Mr. McCarthy's situation." A lukewarm endorsement, indeed. And guaranteed, it won't get any warmer just because the Yankees, in announcing McCarthy's nomination, took steps to allay concerns over baseball's "local residency" requirements for ownership by saying the 67-year-old Cleveland lawyer plans to move to the New York at some point, as yet unspecified. If McCarthy is already raising questions inside the commissioner's office, might he raise some with the owners of other baseball clubs? After all, he needs their approval, too, first from an ownership committee, then from the majority of the 12 National League club owners and three-fourths of the 14 American League clubs. McCarthy seems willing to let by-gones be bygones. His suit, filed in Federal court in Cleveland in August 1990, sought to prevent Steinbrenner's forced resignation. He argued that Steinbrenner offered "unique" qualities as owner and that the other owners would be financially harmed if Steinbrenner was forced out. A judge rejected the suit and McCarthy. By mid-December, though, he dropped the suit. And yesterday, McCarthy was no longer lamenting the plight of the Yankees without Steinbrenner. Instead, he said he would be "honored to serve as managing general partner of the New York Yankees." Will he get the chance? Owners of the Yankees, employees of the Yankees, friends and followers of the Yankees will have to wait and see. For another night, they again had go to bed as uncertain of the future as they were the many, many nights before. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this an analysis; news analysis appears in print on January 1, 1992, on Page 1001043 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Yankees Still Muddled Despite Leadership Change.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »