Advertisement By MURRAY CHASS In the three and a half weeks between the time they exchanged salary figures and their hearing before an arbitrator, the Mets never tried to negotiate a contract with Kevin Elster. They didn't have to. General Manager Al Harazin knew a winner when he saw one. Robert Creo, a first-timer in baseball's salary arbitration procedure, heard the case in New York Tuesday and yesterday gave Elster the $760,000 salary the Mets proposed over the $1.35 million the shortstop sought. The decision was the eighth victory for baseball clubs in 10 hearings. Unlike their strategy with Elster, the Mets negotiated contracts yesterday with Bill Pecota and Mackey Sasser. They gave Pecota, who was acquired from Kansas City with Bret Saberhagen, a $785,000 salary, $35,000 beyond the midpoint of their numbers, and Sasser $775,000, which was the midpoint of their $650,000 and $900,000 figures. Harazin refrained from making any offers to Elster because he felt the shortstop's figure was too high for him to win, especially in light of developments with other shortstops the past week. Advertisement "Obviously, we're disappointed," Steve Linett, Elster's agent, said, "but it's not totally unexpected in light of recent settlements. What hurt us was Manny Lee and Espinoza settling beneath our midpoint." Advertisement The halfway mark for the Mets and Elster was $1,055,000. Lee, the Toronto shortstop, and Alvaro Espinoza of the Yankees each agreed to $1 million. Pat Gibbons, Espinoza's agent, was aware of the impact Espinoza's new salary could have on Elster's effort to more than double his $625,000 salary, so he tried to delay disclosure of the settlement. "We reached agreement last Saturday, and they asked us to hold off announcing it temporarily," said Bill Bergesch, the Yankees' assistant general manager. "We didn't know what the reason was, but we were willing to go along. But we also had a hearing coming up and you have to protect yourself and make sure you have an ironclad agreement." The Yankees finally reported the signing to the Player Relations Committee late Monday afternoon, the day before the scheduled hearings for Espinoza and Elster.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Gibbons's decision to accept the Yankees' offer of $1 million for Espinoza, $50,000 below the midpoint, also was the result of a previous settlement, showing again how decisions and settlements trigger a reaction. A Determining Factor "When I heard that Rivera settled, I knew we probably would settle," said Gibbons, referring to Boston's shortstop, Luis Rivera, who last Friday agreed to $1,075,000, which was $15,000 below the midpoint. "But I also knew that Harazin was determined to take Elster to a hearing." Pecota's agreement with the Mets was another chain-reaction result. "We had a real good case with Pecota," said his agent, Jim Bronner. "But when Bell lost, that prompted us to settle." Jay Bell, Pittsburgh's shortstop, lost his bid for a raise from $360,000 to $1.45 million Tuesday. Pecota was trying to go from $307,500 to $900,000 while the Mets countered at $600,000. When Bell wound up with $875,000 and the Mets offered $785,000, Bronner accepted. The settlements with Pecota and Sasser leave the Mets with only one case. Their hearing with David Cone is scheduled for next Monday. Bronner and Bob Gilhooley also represent Felix Fermin, the Cleveland shortstop, and when the Indians yesterday offered $950,000, halfway between their figures of $700,000 and $1.2 million, another shortstop became a signed player. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 13, 1992, on Page B00026 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Mets' Elster Is Loser in Arbitration.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »