Advertisement By JACK BELLMAY 22, 2014
 The 2014 World Cup begins on June 12, when Brazil plays Croatia in the opening match. Reporters and editors for The Times will count down to the start of the tournament each day with a short capsule of news and interesting tidbits. The “tubes and wires” that comprise the Internet are about to get a workout. In the digital realm there are lies, damn lies, statistics ... and analytics. Numbers are the game within the game. In the forefront is Google, which on Thursday released some eye-popping information showing that — surprise! — the World Cup is the most popular sporting event on the planet. Most of the data covers the period from Jan. 1 to May 15. Perhaps more interesting is how interest in the sport has grown in the United States since the 2010 World Cup in South Africa. “Compared to last year, we have seen a 233 percent growth in soccer-related searches on Google in the United States,” Brad Johnsmeyer, the company’s Insights manager, said in a telephone interview. Asked what it all means, Johnsmeyer said: “It shows soccer is here to stay in the United States. It’s supercool to see how much engagement there is now compared to four years ago. I’m a Sporting K.C. fan in M.L.S. and that has turned me into a U.S. fan, and I’m excited.” Advertisement Some of that recent interest has been focused on the Champions League and England’s Premier League. On YouTube, a Google property, from April 13 to May 13 views of soccer-themed sports videos worldwide far exceeded any other sport, with wrestling a distant second and basketball third. The Google analytics are available for viewing online at Google Trends, and the company plans to create a hub for the World Cup where viewers will be able to see searches that are trending during every match throughout the monthlong tournament in Brazil. Advertisement Most World Cup interest in the United States, Google’s data showed, comes from coastal urban areas. Most of the cities also have large Hispanic populations. According to Pew, 46 percent of Hispanics are looking forward to the World Cup while only 15 percent of non-Hispanic whites are. The chart below shows that Portland, Ore., is at the top of the list, followed by Miami-Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; Houston; and New York. The biggest shift compared to four years ago, Johnsmeyer said, has been the growth in the consumption of content on mobile devices (smartphones and tablets). In 2010, about 18 percent of searches for games, players and teams during the World Cup final between Spain and the Netherlands were done on a mobile device. In 2014, 63 percent of searches during a late-round Champions League match were done on a mobile device, a precursor of what Google expects to find during the World Cup. Additionally, search data from the 2010 World Cup final showed that query volume was modest while the match was being played but spiked at the end of the match. “It’s the second screening behavior,” Johnsmeyer said. “People on mobile, with phones in hand, search and look for data, for example, when a player is injured or a goal is scored. They want to find out more of what is going on. The fact that people are doing differently than in the past is really fascinating.” For searches originating in the United States, the Premier League is consistently the most popular, with spikes for important Champions League games. Interest, in terms of searches, in Major League Soccer has been largely static since 2005, with a slight decline. On YouTube, videos uploaded by companies like Nike and Adidas are nearly as popular as any other soccer-related content on the site. The Nike “Winner Stays On” video has been viewed 65 million times and the Adidas “Introducing the Battle Pack” video has been seen more than eight million times through Wednesday. Some interesting statistics from Google data: ■ 64.7 million hours of soccer video were watched on YouTube last month ■ The U.S. Soccer channel has more than 100,000 subscribers and 65 million video views. The most popular video is a save made by Hope Solo in the women’s national team’s game against Canada on June 20, 2012.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ■ The YouTube channel of the Bundesliga has 250,000 subscribers; the Bayern Munich channel has 170,000 subscribers; and the Real Madrid channel has 1.2 million subscribers. Advertisement ■ Soccer has more interest on Google Search than the Super Bowl, the Olympics and the Tour de France combined (worldwide search trends data). ■ In championship matches, three of four searches during the games happened on mobile devices, compared to less than 1 in 5 during the 2010 World Cup. ■ The top teams on Google search are: Real Madrid, Chelsea, Barcelona, Manchester United and Liverpool. ■ The top players on Google search are: Cristiano Ronaldo, Lionel Messi, David Beckham (him again!), Gareth Bale and Juan Pablo Galvis. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »