Advertisement By GERALD ESKENAZI and  As the Olympic Winter Games of the French Alps closed today, Norwegian officials looked forward to a new way of regarding competition in their country. The Winter Games will be staged in Lillehammer, Norway, in two years. But they admitted that not too long ago they had been concerned: What if they gave an Olympics and nobody in Norway cared who won? Thus, the residents and athletes of that country of 4 million people have been given a crash course in the philosophy of winning. Norway won no gold medals in the 1988 Winter Games at Calgary, Alberta. It captured nine here, though, among 20 medals over all. The showing placed it fourth behind Germany (26), the Unified Team (23), which was made up of five former republics of the Soviet Union, and Austria (21). Feeling Good The Norwegians should be feeling good as they leave France, having captured four medals over the final three days, including two golds on Saturday. Advertisement "Today it's accepted to be a top athlete in Norway. It wasn't accepted in 1984," said Arne Myrhvold, head of the Norwegian Olympic committee. "We have a democratic-socialist system, with equality in schools, and winning wasn't accepted as a value." Advertisement The Norwegians created an organization known as TopSport, similar to the United States Olympic Training Center in Lake Placid, N.Y., where outstanding athletes converged. But that wasn't enough, said the head of TopSport, Bjorge Stensbol. "We had to change the habits and attitude of athletes," he said. "We needed society to give its ethical and moral support. We worked with athletes and their coaches and talked to them about how to be a winner, how to be a successful team." If the enthusiasm of Norwegian fans at the Albertville Games was any indication, there is, at any rate, raucous support for Norway's athletes. At events in which their countrymen were in the running, the Norwegians were the loudest spectators. Usually, they waved flags and sang songs. And they were also the most despondent if an athlete failed. An Admission by Killy There was, however, a slight break in diplomacy between the respective Olympic heads of France and Norway on this last day. Jean-Claude Killy, the co-president of the 1992 organizing committee, conceded there were logistical problems here, given the numerous and far-flung venues, but he added that Norway will not be as compact as many people think.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "The hockey is 60 kilometers from the skiing in Lillehammer," he said. Killy's determination to make these the Winter Games of the whole Savoy region led to a huge, often unwieldy operation spread over more than 600 square miles. "I hope in the future the Games will be more compact," said Myrhvold. "It has been hard to find the Olympic feeling here." He added that in Norway, virtually all the events will be in or near Lillehammer, but that one of several rinks is in Hammer, about 35 miles away. To Killy, the huge distances in France were "a disadvantage of the advantage." He explained that by having so many athletic sites, with the competitors adjacent to them, "you have the beauty of being next to a stadium, just putting on your skis and walking to the competition." Advertisement But he also admitted that "by being far apart, the athletes lose the Olympic spirit." Some competitors complained that they missed the easy exchange among athletes that had been typical at other Olympics, and the free-wheeling singing and camaraderie in bars and bistros in the evening. Many of them left before tonight's closing ceremonies, perhaps another indication that these Games, artistically successful, might not have engendered an emotional bond among far-flung athletes. Memorial Service for Skier A ceremony in memory of Nicholas Bochatay, the Swiss speed skier who died in a crash on the slopes Saturday, was held Sunday morning in a church at Brides-les-Bains. Bochatay, who had qualified Friday at 130 miles per hour, was skiing with a teammate, Pierre-Yves Jorand, on a practice slope when he came over the crest of a hill and crashed into a Sno-Cat machine, which grooms the slopes. The Swiss Olympic team charged that the vehicle was hidden from view, but Olympic officials said it had its siren and flashers on. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 24, 1992, on Page C00007 of the National edition with the headline: ALBERTVILLE; Take a Deep Breath, It's on to Lillehammer.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »