Advertisement 
TV Sports  By                     
 RICHARD SANDOMIR
 
MAY 11, 2014
 The seventh game of the playoff series between the Nets and the Toronto Raptors on May 4 was about two and a half hours old and seemingly just about finished. But then the game’s final minute kicked in, and play inched ahead slowly, as if mired in a congressional filibuster. When the game would end, no one could tell. The final minutes of any game governed by a clock can turn into tense torture, especially tight ones like the one on May 4, when the Nets’ double-digit lead shrank to a point with 8.8 seconds left. In the N.B.A., strategic fouls, tactical adjustments and commercials — not to mention the myth of the 20-second timeout — can transform the final moments of a matchup into a subject worthy of a reinvestigation into time by Stephen Hawking. In fact, the choreography of the closing seconds is so ingrained in the N.B.A. mind-set that when teams deviate from it, they can make poor decisions. The Knickslost a game in December when Mike Woodson, then the team’s coach, confused his players by not calling a timeout in the final minute. Nets Coach Jason Kiddwas fined $50,000 in November when, out of timeouts, he contrived to spill a cup of soda on the court to create the delay he needed to call a play. Advertisement The finish in the Nets-Raptors game was more routine in some respects, but in the end the teams took nearly 18 minutes to make it through the final 60 ticks of the clock. One of the N.B.A.’s problems in the playoffs is present in most sports’ postseasons: Games last longer on national networks, which, to cover ever-growing fees for the broadcast rights, must sell more advertising time, expanding each commercial break. During the regular season, N.B.A. games averaged 2 hours 17 minutes. But those broadcast on national television averaged 2:29, and so far this playoff season, when all the games are nationally televised, the number has risen to 2:38, up two minutes from last year. In tight games, with coaches burning through timeouts, the gap between clock time and real-world time can swell. “The last two minutes at times drags on and drains the suspense out of the game,” said Jeff Van Gundy, an ESPN and ABC analyst and a former Knicks coach. Advertisement Rod Thorn, the N.B.A.’s president for basketball operations, acknowledged that some games lasted too long but insisted that the long final minute of the Nets-Raptors game had been “an aberration.” “More things were happening at the end of that game than you’ll see in almost any game,” Thorn said. Timeouts were the primary culprit for the pace of the final minute of the Nets-Raptors game. The N.B.A. grants each team six full timeouts and one 20-second timeout per half. Four of the full timeouts are scheduled to last 100 seconds; the fifth and sixth have a stated length of 60 seconds. A team cannot enter the fourth quarter with more than three full timeouts and one 20-second timeout, handy tools for coaches to strategize, exhort, point fingers and stall. If a coach still has two full timeouts with two minutes left, one of them becomes a 20-second timeout. With the Nets leading, 81-73, after three quarters, the coaches, Kidd and Toronto’s Dwane Casey, each had four timeouts available. And they held on to them as if they were precious gems.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Casey used his first with 7:26 left. Kidd called one with 3:42 to go, leaving each team with three. They stayed in reserve until 22.5 seconds remained, with the Nets leading, 102-99. And that is when time — at least the N.B.A. version — seemed to stop. “In the last two minutes, I’d like to see each team get one timeout, and that’s it,” Van Gundy said. “I don’t think it would be a problem for players and coaches; they would evolve and adapt and know they play more in a flow after a made basket or a missed free throw.” But fewer timeouts in the final two minutes would, under the Van Gundy rule, also mean fewer chances to advance the ball to midcourt. Under the league’s rules, teams get the ball at the 28-foot hash mark instead of at their basket after a timeout. With time short, that can be a critical strategic advantage: A well-run inbounds play in the frontcourt can produce an immediate shot, and a length-of-the-court pass is easier to defend. “Part of the drama is advancing that ball,” Thorn said. “If you have a couple of seconds left and can’t advance, your chances of scoring are nil.” The final minute of the Nets-Raptors game on ABC was by no means frenetic. Action on the court unfolded in two-, four-, six- and nine-second bursts, save for one sequence that flowed for all of 33 seconds. Advertisement The six timeouts in the game’s final 22.5 seconds illustrated how the clock bent to the vagaries of coaching strategy and television’s dominion over big-time sports. The first two were full 100-second timeouts. Yet with replays, commercials, commentary by Mike Tirico and Hubie Brown, and competing shots of each team’s bench, the timeouts required 2:45 and 2:35 to complete (as measured from the whistle for the timeout to the inbounds pass when the action finally resumed). Each of the remaining four timeouts was ostensibly for 20 seconds. But even with the concession that players do not race to their benches and back to the court in that time and that coaches will cheat by talking for as long as they can, the notion of breaking for such a short period was immediately subverted when ABC cut three times to a 30-second ad. It is hard to take seriously 20-second timeouts that lasted, in order, 1:35, 1:21, 1:15 and 2:46. (The last timeout was the only one during which ABC did not leave for a commercial.) If shifting to commercials and N.B.A. promos in the final seconds could be considered unfriendly to fans, why not stay at the game to let Brown continue to analyze? His exuberant verbosity suggests that even if the game was in a commercial break, he was still talking. Mark Gross, ESPN’s senior vice president for production, said by email: “It’s always a balancing act for the production team, particularly in end-of-game situations, to ensure we document the live game while integrating presold commercial inventory. In this case, we followed the story lines, captured all game action and took the appropriate breaks.” Five days later, Game 3 of the Oklahoma City Thunder-Los Angeles Clippers series, which the Thunder won by 6 points, demonstrated anew the elasticity of N.B.A. time. The final 1:23 on the clock — packed with four timeouts and five fouls — took 12:43 to complete. For those bedeviled or fatigued by all the breaks and the elongated final moments of a game, it can be comforting to watch lopsided games accelerate to their conclusions for a change. Email: sandor@nytimes.com  A version of this article appears in print on May 12, 2014, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: Seconds That Last an Eternity.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »