Advertisement By CHARLIE NOBLES and  Dan Marino reached the Super Bowl in his second professional season. Seven seasons later, he's still waiting for an encore. It bothers the Miami Dolphins' quarterback that he doesn't have a Super Bowl conquest in his portfolio, which is why Sunday's game against the Jets may mean a little extra to him. Sunday's winner gets a playoff ticket, which keeps its Super Bowl hopes alive. The loser's season will be over. "It's on my mind all the time," Marino said today, talking about a possible Super Bowl victory before the team's practice. "That's what you shoot for when you put on the gear. But I've got a lot of years left. Hopefully, if I stay healthy, which I think I will, I'll get my opportunity. "If not, at least I can look back and say I played hard for a lot of years and was trying to achieve a goal. Working for something, anyway." Another Pro Bowl Advertisement The 30-year-old Marino today was named to the Pro Bowl for the sixth time. He has a 57.8 percent completion percentage this season, 23 touchdowns and 3,715 passing yards. Advertisement Moreover, he has 35,131 passing yards, fourth best in National Football League history. He's on target to surpass the career leader, Fran Tarkenton, who needed 18 seasons to total 47,003 yards. He says he thinks he is in his prime. "I have a lot better understanding of defenses and coverages and calling plays at the line" than he did during the team's 1985 Super Bowl year, he said. "And I have a better understanding of the running game. "As far as throwing the football, I'm throwing it as good as I ever have, when it comes to velocity and location and all that kind of stuff. I think I'm making better decisions." Jensen Sees Change  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Jim Jensen, the wide receiver, has watched Marino through his nine seasons as a Dolphin, and thinks Marino's temperament has been the biggest change in him as a quarterback. "He's in control of his emotions a lot better," Jensen said. "Even though he flares up once in a while, it just shows you he's a winner. He'll do anything it takes to win." Receiver Mark Clayton tends to agree. "I think he's been a heck of a leader this year," Clayton said. "When he was younger, he'd be so intense and involved in the game he'd want to do everything well. And he'd want everybody to do well. When they'd make a mistake, he'd get so mad he didn't know what to do. Of course, once he calmed down, he'd go back and apologize. Now, he doesn't have to do that. He's still intense, but his emotions don't get the best of him." Marino said Sunday's game "is what it's all about" to play in the N.F.L. "If you're any kind of player, it's something you look forward to," Marino said. "Because you have the opportunity to play in a big ball game. We've been building for this all season, and Sunday at 1 o'clock against the Jets we have a big chance to move on and get in the playoffs." A Different Look Marino believes the Jets will see a different team -- at least a different offense -- from the one that fell rather meekly in the teams' last meeting, 41-23. "Offensively, I know we're playing a lot better than we were at the beginning of the year. So that'll help. We gave them some points last time, the ones before the half particularly.  That's why I think we'll be a little better prepared for those kind of situations this time." The points he was referring to resulted from a blocked punt returned for a touchdown 12 seconds before halftime. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 19, 1991, on Page B00027 of the National edition with the headline: FOOTBALL; Marino Driven by Just One Goal.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »