Advertisement By JACK CURRY and  When Stump Merrill was told today that Bud Harrelson had been dismissed by the Mets, he shook his head in dismay. Merrill, the manager of the Yankees, will apparently retain his job for at least one week longer than his counterpart from the Mets, but he was not rejoicing. "I don't ever feel good when I see someone else lose their job," he said a few hours before the Yankees lost to the Indians, 5-2. "What stands to be gained by getting rid of the guy with a week to go?" After hearing about Harrelson's abrupt removal, it would have been only natural for Merrill to ponder his own situation. Gene Michael, the Yankees' general manager, is in Cleveland with the club, and he refused to give any indication whether the Yankees will replace Merrill after the season. A Brave Face Every day of silence by Michael casts some doubt on who will be sitting in the Yankee manager's chair next season, but Merrill sported a brave face today and said he did not worry about his future "more than any other day." Then Merrill added, "I've turned myself off from the negative stuff." Advertisement Although the two managers who started the season in New York are just acquaintances, Merrill and Harrelson must have developed compassion for each other as speculation grew about which would lose his job first. Merrill conceded he was aware of Harrelson's tenuous position. "You'd have to be blind and deaf not to be," he said.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. By losing today, the Yankees remained stagnant at 66 victories. They need two victories in the final seven games in order to show improvement in their record for the first time since 1985. If they exceed 67 victories, the manager probably deserves some credit because the Yankees did not have high expectations entering the season. Advertisement "I knew I was not taking over the 1927 Yankees," Merrill said. Now that Harrelson is history, Merrill knows the speculation about his uncertain future will start again. As Merrill glared into the sunshine today at Cleveland Stadium, he said the talk did not bother him. It has become part of the job and will probably remain so as long as he keeps it. "I lived through the first one," he said, referring to initial reports that he may be replaced. "I can turn my back on anything now." INSIDE PITCH The Yankees made several winter ball assignments Sunday, but there was confusion about two players. The team said PASCUAL PEREZ and HENSLEY MEULENS will play in the Dominican Republic; BERNIE WILLIAMS and BOB GEREN in Puerto Rico and KEVIN MAAS, DARRIN CHAPIN and MIKE HUMPHREYS in Venezuela. General Manager GENE MICHAEL said Saturday he could not reveal the names until Sunday because he wanted to speak to each one. Obviously, Michael did not reach Geren or Meulens. Asked about winter ball, Meulens responded, "Who said I'm going to play winter ball?" The rookie said he wanted to talk to the club about it. Geren said he was waiting for a return call from the Ponce team and was not sure if or where he would play. . . . MANNY RAMIREZ, the finest high school player in New York last season, was honored as Cleveland's minor league player of the year Sunday. He was the most valuable player for Burlington (N.C.) of the Appalachian League, a rookie league, after hitting .326 and setting league records with 19 homers and 63 runs batted in. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 30, 1991, on Page C00002 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Merrill and Harrelson: Is There a Message Here?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »