Advertisement Supported by By John F. Burns MUNICH — For a man at risk of being rudely unseated from his position as one of the world’s most powerful sports moguls, Bernie Ecclestone seems improbably relaxed as the defendant in a criminal trial accusing him of bribery in the deal that ensured his continued control of grand prix motor racing. Ecclestone, an 83-year-old billionaire, arrives for each session of the German court aboard his executive jet, traveling from one of his stable of homes across Europe. He transfers to a black, chauffeur-driven Mercedes-Benz for the journey to the Munich courthouse, which he enters via a parking garage reserved for court officials. He is greeted as a celebrity, posing for a scrum of newspaper and television photographers who follow him onto the courtroom floor, where he shakes hands amiably with court officials and his defense team.  His affable demeanor during the trial has suggested that he wants the watching Formula One world to view the trial more as a passing inconvenience than as a threat to his life’s work. The charges he faces here, centering on a $44 million payment to a German banker who approved the $1.4 billion deal that renewed Ecclestone’s stewardship of Formula One in 2006, carry a maximum of 10 years in prison. In view of his age, German legal experts say Ecclestone would most likely draw a lesser term if convicted, or perhaps avoid jail altogether if he abandons his not-guilty plea and agrees to a financial penalty that could run as high as $450 million. But acknowledging guilt would be an improbable change of strategy for the wily and combative Ecclestone. In countless civil court proceedings and trackside deals over the years, he has outwitted a legion of challengers seeking to dislodge him as the kingpin of Formula One, a role he has used since the 1970s to amass a $5 billion fortune.  Conviction in the Munich trial, which began last month and is scheduled to end in September, would almost certainly bring an end to Ecclestone’s reign. Donald Mackenzie, head of CVC Capital Ventures, the London-based venture capital company that secured a majority interest in Formula One in the 2006 deal, has said that he would dismiss Ecclestone if he were convicted.  The trial itself has many of the markings of the opulent lifestyle of Formula One. There are the executive jet flights from London, the Swiss Alpine resort of Gstaad and other points in Europe, and the convenience, rare for any criminal defendant, of proceedings on a midweek schedule to accommodate Ecclestone’s commitments in Formula One: Bahrain one week, then Spain, Monaco and other destinations on the circuit’s annual schedule of 19 races across the globe. So far, Ecclestone’s legal entanglements have had little effect on the series. At last weekend’s Spanish Grand Prix outside Barcelona, Ecclestone was overseeing matters from his motor home in the paddock as usual and telling friends cheerily that he had been dividing his time between “other business in Munich” and meetings in London and Paris with team executives seeking ways to reduce the spiraling costs of Formula One racing.  The battle over costs is itself a consequence of Ecclestone’s most audacious financial coup. In the late 1990s, he astonished Formula One by securing a contract from the sport’s Paris-based governing body, the International Automobile Federation, known as the F.I.A., that gave him a 100-year lock on the sport’s commercial revenues. That deal has left many of the teams and tracks now involved in the sport struggling for financial survival. When Ecclestone promptly sold the commercial rights to the German media company Kirch for close to $3 billion, his personal fortune was made. But Kirch’s subsequent bankruptcy left the controlling interest in Formula One in the hands of creditors, principally the bank at the center of the Munich trial, Bayerische Landesbank, or BayernLB. The bank appointed Gerhard Gribkowsky, a member of its board, to find a buyer for its billion-dollar holding, and he admitted at his own corruption trial in 2012 that he had taken the $44 million from Ecclestone as a bribe to complete the sale to CVC. In an apparent eagerness to establish an affinity with the court, Ecclestone has shown some of the quirkiness that has characterized his views on matters beyond Formula One. Speaking in a part of Munich that was largely reduced to rubble by Allied bombing during World War II, he devoted part of his opening statement to his own experience as a child in a suburb of London during the German blitz of the early 1940s. Court officials, including the judge, Peter Noll, sat stone-faced, apparently puzzling over the relevance of the recollections. Gribkowsky, 56, balding and smoothly self-assured on the witness stand, comes to each session of the court on day release from the open prison where he is serving an eight-and-a-half-year sentence — imposed by the same judge at his trial in 2012 — for his part in the deal that sold the Bavarian bank’s 47 percent share to CVC, the investment company. The bank is owned by the Bavarian state government, making Gribkowsky a public employee and thus increasing the severity of the offense under German law. The prosecution has asserted that Ecclestone engineered the deal, writing into it a provision guaranteeing his control of Formula One — and tens of millions in annual earnings for himself — under CVC’s ownership.  Ecclestone has contended at the trial that the payment to Gribkowsky was hush money, demanded by the banker as the price of not carrying out a threat to tell the British tax authorities that Ecclestone continued to control a Liechtenstein-based family trust — a false assertion, Ecclestone has said. Ecclestone has testified that he set up the trust more than a decade ago for his former wife and their two daughters after he had heart surgery.  The 250-page indictment introduced at the trial revealed previously undisclosed facts about Ecclestone’s complicated finances, including an unusual divorce arrangement in 2009 in which his former wife agreed to make annual payments to Ecclestone out of the family trust that have amounted to more than $500 million, or about $100 million a year.  In court, Gribkowsky has surprised even his own lawyers by testifying to some of the pressure tactics he deployed during his negotiations with Ecclestone. .  “You need to be nasty to get your own way” in business, Gribkowsky said.  But at another point, Gribkowsky depicted Ecclestone as eager to buy his compliance. He said Ecclestone had asked him during the negotiations how much he wanted to complete the CVC deal. “Tell me a number,” he quoted Ecclestone as saying. Gribkowsky said he had answered by saying “50,” meaning $50 million. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS