Advertisement By AL HARVIN and  Lonnie Young has been in the American Football Conference for less than a year and already the Jets' starting free safety is longing for the hard-nosed football that is supposedly more prevalent in the National Football Conference. "I used to play in the N.F.C. East, and this is what I'm looking forward to," said Young, alluding to the Jets' next opponent, the Chicago Bears. "Not that I didn't think that game against the Buffalo Bills on Sunday wasn't tough," said Young, who was acquired from the Phoenix Cardinals in a June 12 trade for a draft choice. "I'm still a little sore from that, but that's what everybody says -- the N.F.C. is supposed to be more run-oriented, more physical and the A.F.C. more pass-oriented." The Bills are definitely a lot more pass-oriented than Chicago, which will be host to the Jets Monday night. Advertisement Buffalo came into the Meadowlands with the No. 1 passer in Jim Kelly, the No. 1 receiver in Andre Reed, the No. 1 scorer in Don Beebe and the No. 1 rusher in Thurman Thomas. When the Bills left, Kelly was still the top-rated quarterback, and Thomas had taken over the league lead in receptions from Reed. Advertisement The Bills also left with a 23-20 victory thanks to a missed 51-yard field-goal attempt by Pat Leahy with 23 seconds left that would have sent the game into overtime. The loss also left the Jets with a 1-2 record and their longest list of injuries so far this season, although Buffalo accused them of faking some of them to slow down the Bills' no-huddle fast-break marches. Jets Coach Bruce Coslet was so incensed with the accusation that he called a special news conference on Tuesday and indicated that he was filing a protest with the commissioner.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Nobody who saw the helmet-clanging collision that Young had with Thomas could think that he was faking the concussion that put him out of the game. "When I took that shot and came out, the coaches told me my eyes were going back in my head, and I was flat out," said Young. "Nobody wants to fake an injury. We didn't need to do that anyway. They were 2 for 9 on third-down conversions." The Jets picked up Young from the Phoenix Cardinals because they liked his aggressiveness, especially against the run, something they thought that Erik McMillan, the Jets' leader in career interceptions (19), lacked, even though McMillan was the Jets' second-leading tackler last season. Someone else on the Jets who has a more intimate knowledge of the Chicago offense is the second-year defensive coordinator, Pete Carroll, who spent five years as the secondary coach of the Minnesota Vikings in the same division as the Bears before moving over to the Jets. His defensive schemes are aimed at stopping the run, which in the case of Chicago, boils down to No. 35, Neal Anderson. Anderson has compiled three straight 1,000-yard seasons and was the Bears' second-leading pass receiver last year with 42 receptions. Chicago quarterback Jim Harbaugh, who is rated third in the N.F.C., can certainly get the ball to him. EXTRA POINTS ERIK McMILLAN (groin) was added to the list of Jets who were injured in the game against Buffalo, bringing the total to 11. The five on defense are defensive end DARRELL DAVIS (Achilles' tendon), cornerback JAMES HASTY (quad), linebacker JOE KELLY (knee), defensive end JEFF LAGEMAN (knee) and free safety LONNIE YOUNG (shoulder, concussion). The five offensive players are running backs BLAIR THOMAS (back), BRAD BAXTER (quad) and FREEMAN McNEIL (bruised eye), quarterback KEN O'BRIEN (left, non-throwing shoulder) and tight end CHRIS DRESSEL (ankle). All are listed as probable. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 21, 1991, on Page 1001031 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL; Jets' Young Can't Wait to Play N.F.C. Foe Again.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »