Advertisement By BRAD SPURGEONMAY 11, 2014
 Barcelona, Spain — On Saturday, after scoring his fourth pole position of the year and the 35th of his career, Lewis Hamilton said he had never driven a car that was so much faster than those of his immediate competitors. On Sunday, it was clear, however, that there was one other such car among the 22 taking part in the Spanish Grand Prix: That of Hamilton’s teammate, Nico Rosberg, in the other Mercedes. It was thanks to Rosberg’s impeccable driving and a handling problem for Hamilton that a race that would otherwise have been a predictable walkover turned into high suspense to the finish line. Hamilton narrowly won, with the two drivers finishing the race with 0.6 seconds between them, and after Hamilton had been facing his car balance and handling drama for much of the second half of the race. The next closest car was the Red Bull of Daniel Ricciardo, who finished in third, 49 seconds behind. “Never have I ever had a car like this, and never have I had a gap like this,” Hamilton said. “I feel that it’s just a huge blessing not only for me but for all of the guys on my team. I am just enjoying every moment, every step of the way.” Advertisement But he added that he was not as fast as he should have been. “Nico was quicker,” he said. “I struggled a lot on the balance and had to rely a lot more on the engineers, and move my settings up and down. Nico was quicker and I was fortunate to be able to keep him behind.” Advertisement It was Hamilton’s 26th career victory and his first in Barcelona. It was his fourth in a row this season, as he has won all but the first race of the year in Australia in March, which he failed to finish due to a technical problem. He also took over the lead of the series from Rosberg for the first time, as Rosberg had won the first race and finished all the rest in second place. Hamilton now leads the series with 100 points, while Rosberg is second with 97. Fernando Alonso at Ferrari, who finished the race in sixth, is third, with 49 points while Sebastian Vettel, at Red Bull, who finished fourth, is in fourth in the series with 45 points. Mercedes has won all five races of the season, and it was the team’s fourth 1-2 in a row. The astounding superiority of Hamilton’s car at the start of the race was such that after the first 10 laps he led the third place Williams car of Valterri Bottas by more than 15 seconds, or 1.5 seconds a lap. Such differences in Formula One, where the laps were run in just under a minute and a half, are considered huge. The 49-second finishing gap to Ricciardo amounts to double the biggest previous finishing distance between the Red Bull and the Mercedes this season. “They were a long way ahead,” said Ricciardo. “We looked like a third place car and that’s what we are.” For Ricciardo’s teammate, Vettel, his fifth place finish masks what might represent a turning point, however, in the poor start to the season for the reigning four-time champion, as he had started the race in 15th position. He had problems throughout the weekend, having to replace a gearbox and being penalized by five spots on the grid since a gearbox is required to be used for six consecutive races.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. As he drove out to the grid before the start of the race he also reported another technical problem with the car. But despite dropping back to as low as 19th position, his third stint during the race looked like the Vettel of old as he scythed his way up through the pack and actually set the fastest lap of the race, on Lap 55. Home favorite, Fernando Alonso, who is Spanish, also continued to have problems in his Ferrari, as he lost several positions in the final laps an could never challenge for a podium position. But in the final laps, as the two Mercedes drivers fought each other for the victory, Alonso too fought with his teammate, Kimi Raikkonen, and managed to pass him for sixth position with just three laps left in the race. Rosberg had a harder time battling with Hamilton, whose problems had started even before the halfway point of the race. “Give me a hand, I’ve got too much over-steer,” said Hamilton to his team on Lap 28. “My rear-end’s everywhere.” Advertisement Later, with 25 laps left Hamilton said, “I need updates every lap,” begging his engineers for help. With 20 laps left, he led by 4.8 seconds on Rosberg, but the two drivers were using different tire compounds, with Rosberg's being the faster compound. The two exchanged fastest race laps several times as the competition heated up. The tension rose in the pits as well as the Mercedes engineers communicated with their drivers, informing them of the distance and strengths and weaknesses of their teammates. “Nico is faster in Turns 1, 2 and 3. You are faster in Sector 3,” Hamilton’s engineer said. With 10 laps left Hamilton asked if there was anything else that could be done because he had graining on his left tires and he had dropped to only 2.1 seconds ahead of Rosberg. His engineer suggested he go a little slower if he could “live with it.” With two laps left, Rosberg was just .9 seconds behind. On the final lap, Hamilton made a rapid, effective pass of Raikkonen’s Ferrari, lapping the Finnish driver down the straight, and giving no chance to Rosberg to pass through during the process. He then held him off through the rest of the lap in a brilliant drive, celebrating the victory by swerving side to side in delight after crossing the finish line. Rosberg said he would have won the race had it been one lap longer. “I think one more and I could have given it a good go,” said Rosberg. “I’m still gutted.” A version of this article appears in print on May 12, 2014, on Page D10 of the New York edition with the headline: Hamilton First in Spain.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »