Advertisement By GEORGE VECSEY PAT ENGELBERT, who has a 3.587 grade- point average and something like a size-18 neck, also has a proposal. He is tired of national champions enhancing their reputations by whupping on his team, and he would like them to settle things on their own. Engelbert, the nose tackle for Nebraska, wishes Miami and Washington would just go off somewhere and play a football game. "No fans, no television, no press, just the players," Engelbert said Wednesday night after watching Miami scamper past Nebraska, 22-0, in the Orange Bowl, after Washington had overpowered Michigan, 34-14, in the Rose Bowl. This private game would be the only way to settle the question of which is the better team this season. The rest of us cannot make up our addled minds. Miami and Washington are truly co-champions because they both finished with 12-0 records and they both had supporters in the plethora of polls. Advertisement Miami won The Associated Press poll of the writers and broadcasters while Washington won the poll of coaches, now being conducted by USA Today and CNN. Miami also came out on top of The New York Times computer ranking. Advertisement Then there is the old comparative-score method. Nebraska lost to Washington by 15, and to Miami by 22, but Engelbert said frankly he was tired of being a consultant on this issue. "Last year we lost to Colorado and Georgia Tech, and they both were No. 1," Engelbert said, recalling how the multitudinous polls came up with tri-champions, including Miami. This year the Hurricanes can go away muttering that the coaches voted for Don James because he's a good guy and Washington can go away muttering about East Coast writers who don't know anything about the Northwest. (I love the bookstores with coffee bars in Seattle, if that counts.) And who would Pat Engelbert, academic all-American, pick in the big game? "It would be a tossup." Thanks a lot. But here's one more highly unofficial opinion: Washington might win that "Hey, let's do the show right here in the garage" bowl game. But if these two squads, Miami and Washington, got into a stadium full of screaming, yelling live human beings, whether in Husky Stadium or the Orange Bowl or Lenin Stadium or Wembley Stadium or Maracona down in Rio with its 200,000 fans, wherever, the Hurricanes would find a way to strut their way to one extra point.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. This is purely a subjective reaction from one bloke from a national newspaper who spends much more of his time on the East Coast watching Miami do whatever it needs to do. Miami has so much talent that I thought both Rusty Medearis, the mobile defensive end, and Kevin Williams, the fleet receiver, were both more valuable than Larry Jones, the freshman running back, who was voted the star of the game. The domination of Nebraska does not mean, however, that Miami should be the single unofficial national champion for 1991. Many voters were splitting hairs, and they admitted it. Tom Osborne, the Nebraska coach, said, "I don't divulge who I vote for," but he tipped his hand a little by saying he had been very impressed by Washington's making a comeback at Nebraska, 36-21, this season. Advertisement It was impressive to me to hear many of the Nebraska players praising Washington just minutes after they had been totally outplayed by Miami. They were not indulging in sour grapes. In a moment of defeat, they honored another excellent team. "I think Miami is more explosive," said Mike Petko, a linebacker, "but Washington is more powerful." "Washington came to our house and beat us," said Johnny Mitchell, the tight end. The players could not agree whether there should be a playoff system, and neither can the coaches. This year it is obvious that a one-game playoff would decide everything, but other years you could have four or six logical contenders. Let's leave it that way. College football is the only sport that does not decide a real champion. This is part of its charm, going back to a simpler era when the nation seemed much bigger, more regional. Let's leave room for debate. Let's leave room for mystery. There is something very simple, something peaceful, something zen-like, about having co-champions, as far apart as two college teams can be. In Pike Place market in Seattle, let them raise a cup of steamy caffe latte for Washington. On Calle Ocho in Miami let them raise a cup of cafe con leche for the Hurricanes. Let's link them in our minds, in the season of 1991, when the twain never did meet. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 3, 1992, on Page B00007 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; Hurricanes Would Win In Public.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »