Advertisement  AP Short-Term Appeal ''I am very concerned that some adults who are charged with our young people's welfare might be passively accepting or even tacitly approving the use of these dangerous drugs,'' Louis Sullivan, Secretary of Health and Human Services, said in a statement released with the report. ''Because of the insidious, short-term appeal of these drugs, it is essential that our teachers, coaches and others in contact with young athletes make extra efforts to present the very real health hazards that steroids hold.'' Sullivan said an interagency task force had been formed to look into new approaches to curbing the abuse of steroids. The Food and Drug Administration is also conducting an educational campaign targeted at young athletes and their coaches, he said, and the department is forming a new public affairs campaign on the issue. The report, issued by Inspector General Richard Kusserow, estimated that 262,000 students in grades 7 through 12 used or have used steroids, based on a 1989 survey by the National Institute on Drug Abuse. It is believed that many young people who use steroids obtain the drugs at bodybuilding gyms. Federal law-enforcement work has found that such gyms serve as connection points for steroid users of all ages. Advertisement Conservative Estimates The 1989 survey estimated a lifetime incidence of 3 percent among students in grades 7 through 12. But this estimate is considered conservative, the new report said, because the data do not include information from school dropouts. Advertisement The number of users appears to be increasing, the report said, basing its conclusion on interviews with 30 knowledgeable professionals and 72 current or former steroid users, as well as a review of recent studies. More than half of the users said they had started using steroids by age 16, and 85 percent said they had started by age 17. All but one said they used injectable steroids.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The experts said adolescents whose bodies are still developing are at special risk for some adverse effects of steroid use, including stunted growth, mood changes and long-term dependence on steroids. Signs of Addictive Behavior The experts also said that steroid users exhibit addictive behavior, although it has not been proven that use of these drugs is habit-forming. Other possible psychological effects, they said, include increased irritability, violent behavior, depression, mania, psychosis and suicide. Studies estimate that the proportion of adolescent boys who use steroids ranges from 4.7 percent to 11.1 percent. Among girls, the estimated range is 0.5 percent to 2.5 percent. Many of the experts believe that ''adolescents may be more vulnerable to steroid use because of societal values and their own strong concerns about appearance and peer approval,'' the report said. ''They say that, whether intentional or not, parents and coaches place great pressure on young people to compete and win, while sending a mixed message of what are acceptable ways to accomplish that goal,'' the report said. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 8, 1990, on Page 1001042 of the National edition with the headline: Steroid Use by Teen-Agers Cited.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »