Advertisement By JOE LAPOINTE After spending almost two weeks on the road and traveling back from Minnesota to New York in the early hours of the morning, Roger Neilson of the Rangers did what any reasonable coach would have done yesterday. He got up early and went back to work before noon. He viewed videotape and read scouting reports. He answered the telephone in the team's headquarters. Had the team practiced, he might have driven the Zamboni to resurface the ice. When a team is as hot as the Rangers, work is play. And who wants to stop? Neilson's Rangers are on a remarkable run. They concluded a five-game western trip with a 2-1 victory in Minnesota Saturday night. On the trip, the Rangers went 4-0-1. In their last seven games, they are 6-0-1. They lead the Patrick Division by six points. They have the best overall record in the league. They are in relatively good health and they have a favorable schedule for the last third of the regular season. Their biggest challenge now is to maintain their position at the peak while awaiting the Stanley Cup playoffs, still two months away. Advertisement "It's true," Neilson said. "Once you're on top, everyone is gunning for you every game. You have a tougher time. Your biggest test is: Are you good enough to stay? Advertisement "We have a good schedule. Coming down the stretch, we have only 10 road games left." No veteran coach would be without worry, and Neilson said he was concerned about a slump. "One seems to visit every team," he said, "and we haven't had one yet." Next Game Is Wednesday They don't play again until Wednesday, when the Pittsburgh Penguins visit Madison Square Garden. Of the 10 road games, four are against local rivals, the Devils and Islanders. None are west of St. Louis and no trip is for more than one night. In Saturday night's game in Minnesota, the star was John Vanbiesbrouck, in goal again because Mike Richter is recovering from a right thigh bruise. Vanbiesbrouck not only made 41 saves, but also set up the winning goal, by Darren Turcotte, with a bounce pass off the boards that triggered a rush at 13:17 of the second period. Even the veteran Rangers are impressed with the recent streak, which has left the team 17 games over .500 for the first time since March 1974. 'Turning Point'  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Obviously, this is great," said Mike Gartner, who leads the team in goals with 29. "I don't think I've ever been on a team in my career when we got 9 of 10 points on a five-game road trip. We feel very, very good. We're hoping that, at the end of the season, we can look back at this as the turning point that got us into first place over all. It certainly is easier for us to have achieved first place over all than to stay there, but we're sure going to try. We're gearing up for the remainder of the season." After Mike Modano gave Minnesota a 1-0 lead at 8:39 of the first period, the Rangers tied the score at 13:27 on a short-handed goal by Jan Erixon. "This is unbelievable," Erixon said. "We just hoped to play .500 hockey on this trip. You can't do much better than this. It's very exciting to be up here. We're real excited about it, but we have a lot of tough games coming up and we can't relax now. It's going to be tough, but we think we can stay here." Earlier in Saturday's game, officials disallowed an apparent goal by Brian Bellows because a videotape review showed that it was kicked in. That would have made the score 2-0. The North Stars outshot the Rangers by 42-22, over all and by 20-6, in the third period. Vanbiesbrouck preserved the tie with a glove save on Brian Propp with 73 seconds left. Leafs Trip Up Devils Advertisement TORONTO, Feb. 2 (Special to The New York Times) -- The Devils fell behind by four goals and although they rallied for three, they never quite recovered Saturday night and suffered a 6-4 loss to Toronto at Maple Leaf Gardens. It was the Devils' first loss in five games on the road. The Devils' undefeated stretch on the road started with a tie against the Islanders before victories at Pittsburgh, Washington, Montreal and Detroit. Two goals by Claude Lemieux and one by Bruce Driver with less than four minutes left in the second brought the Devils (25-17-7) to within a goal, but that was the closest they could come. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 3, 1992, on Page C00005 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; Rangers Return as Road Hogs.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »