Advertisement By FRANK LITSKY When the Giants' disappointing season ended almost three weeks ago, Coach Ray Handley intimated he would shake up his staff. The shake-up started yesterday when the Giants released Ron Erhardt and Mike Pope, two longtime assistants on offense, and Handley left the door open for more changes. Erhardt had been a Giant coach for 10 seasons, Pope for nine. Each had a year remaining on a two-year contract. Erhardt spent his first nine seasons with the Giants as the offensive coordinator, Pope his nine as the coach of the tight ends. Both were close to Bill Parcells, the Giants' head coach from 1983 until he resigned last May 15 and was succeeded by Handley. After the Giants' Super Bowl victory last January, Handley was preparing to leave coaching and, at age 46, enter George Washington University Law School. Parcells changed Handley's mind by promoting him from offensive backfield coach to offensive coordinator. Less Responsibility Under Handley Advertisement To make room for Handley, Parcells promoted Erhardt to assistant head coach. He planned to have Erhardt work with all parts of the team. But when Handley became the head coach, he assigned Erhardt to break down game tapes of future opponents, a lesser job. Advertisement In an interview yesterday, Handley chose his words carefully. "I'm just reorganizing the staff," he said. "I want it to reflect me and the direction I want to take. It's no comment on their contributions. They have made great contributions to the Giants. I just want to go in a different direction. I'm not going to have an assistant head coach. I'm going to reorganize my offensive staff. I have a great deal of respect for Ron Erhardt and Mike Pope. "I need a staff to reflect me and my thinking. This is just the start of reorganization. That's not to imply that other coaches are going. I want to get this done within 10 days. I think there'll be a lot of movement of assistant coaches around the league in the next couple of weeks."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Erhardt will be 60 years old next month. He was the head coach of the New England Patriots from 1979 through 1981. While he was upset by his diminished role under Handley, he would not discuss it publicly during the season or yesterday. But he said he would meet this morning with Wellington Mara, the Giants' president and co-owner, and then with the reporters who cover the Giants year round. After the Giants finished the season with an 8-8 record, they extended the contracts of two offensive coaches: Fred Hoaglin (line) and Charlie Weis (running backs). Handley, who served as his own offensive coordinator this year, has said he planned to name a full-time coordinator, and the probable choice is Jim Fassel, the quarterbacks coach. There had been reports that Al Groh, the Giants' first-year defensive coordinator, would leave. Weeks ago, University of Maryland officials received permission from the Giants to talk to Groh about Maryland's head-coaching vacancy, and Groh scheduled a meeting with them. He later canceled it, and Maryland filled the job. "I heard Al's name linked to these changes," Handley said. "That didn't come from the Giants. I haven't talked to Al in that regard." Handley, however, would not confirm that Groh would be back with the Giants. "Any comments on anybody else on the staff would be premature," Handley said. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 8, 1992, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: FOOTBALL; Two Assistant Coaches Dismissed by Giants.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »