Advertisement By IRA BERKOW WHY not Mikhail Gorbachev to run the Yankees? The Yankees are in chaos -- it is a different strain of chaos from the days when George Steinbrenner was running the team, but chaos nonetheless -- and only a man experienced in chaos can handle the job. And who knows more about crumbling empires than Gorbachev? Unless it's George himself, of course. But it would be disastrous to have George back. It would simply mean returning an old order of chaos to Yankee Stadium. This is unacceptable to most fans. They want new chaos; it offers hope. Right now, the commissioner is thinking hard about allowing Steinbrenner to return to running the team, and the odds, to me, seem excellent that George will be back running it in all directions, as he did before. We may see his official return possibly even before we hear the first plop of a ball into a mitt in spring training. But, you may ask, Why Gorbachev? First of all, the guy needs a job, and accepting one of the many offers to teach at, say, Harvard, or to write an autobiography seems too tame for him at this time. Second, Boris Yeltsin has taken away his good dacha and given him one without a swimming pool. And third, the third coming of George Steinbrenner -- he had been suspended from baseball once before -- is one, by far, too many. We're facing five comings of the man the way we faced five hirings and firings of the groggy, embattled Billy Martin. Advertisement You may say, but Gorbachev doesn't know anything about baseball. Well, did George? And if he was so smart, how come the Yankees were in last place when he departed? Advertisement Also, bringing in somebody from a world beyond baseball is not unheard of. Look at the commissioner's office: Kenesaw Mountain Landis was a frowning Federal judge; Happy Chandler was a grinning Senator; Ford Frick was an ink-stained sportswriter; Gen. William D. Eckert was a military statue; Bowie Kuhn did something -- nobody was ever quite sure what, though he always dressed the part; Peter Ueberroth ran a travel agency; Bart Giamatti ran a university, and Fay Vincent came from the movies. And how smart do you have to be to send someone into exile, anyway. Gorbachev might have said, "To Siberia!" Now he would simply order: "To Columbus!" The way George did. Steinbrenner always talked about his "baseball people." Gorbachev talked about his K.G.B. Just the flip side. And the intrigues and subterranean goings-on in the Yankee organization would be right up Gorbachev's alley. In July 1990, Steinbrenner was confronted with the fact that he had paid a spy, comrade Howard Spira, $40,000 to get hurtful information on one of his players, Dave Winfield. Vincent said that this wasn't in the best interests of baseball, and told Steinbrenner he would have to suspend him from baseball for two years.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. George wouldn't hear of it. He wanted life. This is true. He figured, one, the very word "suspension" would hurt his standing on the executive board of the United States Olympic Committee. And, two, he'd plot to get in one of his sons to run the team, and so would never truly be gone at all. Pretty tricky. It just didn't work out that way. Meanwhile, George was secretly behind schemes to cause the commissioner heartburn, including financing a lawsuit by the Yankees' chief operating officer, Leonard Kleinman, against the commissioner (Vincent says he has documentation to this effect). Though George was thrown out of baseball for life, no one said which life. It turns out it was longer than the life of a tsetse fly, which is less than a month, but probably not as long as an elephant's, which is around 40 years, and certainly not George's. The commissioner has said that if George -- I mean, Leonard -- drops his suit, he will think seriously about reinstating George. Now, the first time Steinbrenner was forced to abdicate his position was in 1974. He was tossed out of baseball for two years because of his illegal campaign contributions to Richard Nixon. Advertisement Gorbachev might nod with recognition at these machinations by Steinbrenner, as well as his ability to overcome adversity. Not long ago, Gorbachev was detained in a coup, which failed. One was reminded of when Steinbrenner was in Los Angeles for the 1981 World Series and was attacked by a hotel elevator. He said it was two Dodger fans, but they were phantoms, never found or heard from. How else to explain the wrap on George's fist, other than that the elevator tried to beat him up, and he courageously pounded it into submission? So I envision a trade, something the Yankees have been unable to make in recent times. I see George in the dacha and Mikhail in the Bronx. Play ballski! We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 28, 1991, on Page 1001029 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; Gorbachev Should Run The Yankees.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »