Advertisement  AP Commissioner Fay Vincent said today that gambling allegations involving Dave Winfield were ''not a serious issue.'' Sports Illustrated, in its Aug. 13 issue, cited several individuals by name and one unidentified source as saying that Winfield had gambled on sports other than baseball. The magazine also quoted sources as having said that Winfield knew of Howard Spira's links to gamblers when he loaned him $15,000. Spira is the 31-year-old self-described former gambler whose dealings with George Steinbrenner led Vincent to order Steinbrenner to yield control of the team. Winfield Denies Allegations Winfield and his lawyer, Jeffrey Klein, denied the allegations. Vincent and John Dowd, who conducted the Steinbrenner investigation, said last week that there was no evidence of wrongdoing by Winfield, who now plays for the California Angels, in his relationship with Spira. Advertisement ''I read the story,'' Vincent said before the Houston Astros played the San Francisco Giants here today. ''I talked to John Dowd. We did, despite what Sports Illustrated said, investigate. As far as we're concerned, at this point it's not a serious issue. John is satisfied that there is nothing very significant in the story.''  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The magazine quoted Allen Barra, a freelance writer, as saying he overheard Winfield discussing his involvement in sports gambling in 1985. ''We knew nothing about this fellow Barra,'' Dowd said, adding that ''if there is additional information, the commissioner is always happy to receive it.'' Advertisement Judge Chosen for Trial Judge Louis L. Stanton of United States District Court was selected Wednesday as the judge for Spira's extortion trial. He replaces Judge John Sprizzo, who withdrew because he was an acquaintance of Steinbrenner, who initiated the charges against Spira. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 9, 1990, on Page D00022 of the National edition with the headline: Vincent Plays Down Allegations on Winfield.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »