Advertisement By JAIME DIAZ and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES Jodie Mudd may still be without a major championship, but today he established himself as golf's premier money player of 1990 by erupting with birdies on the final three holes to take the season-finale Nabisco Championships away from Billy Mayfair. Trailing by two shots after watching Mayfair birdie the tournament's 71st hole from 15 feet, Mudd matched him with a 12-footer and then tied for the lead by holing a 20-foot birdie on the par-4 72d hole. On the first hole of a sudden-death playoff, Mudd smoothly rolled in an 18-foot birdie putt to win the $450,000 first prize in the richest tournament in golf. The winning putt came after the two players, paired in the last group, had finished with three-under-par 68's for a four-round total of 11-under 273, three shots better than Ian Baker-Finch and Wayne Levi. "I was very lucky all three of those putts were dead straight," said Mudd, who had only one three-putt all week on the huge Bermuda greens at Champions Golf Club. "The key for keeping me close and finally winning this tournament was my putter." Second Big Prize Advertisement The 30-year-old veteran's clutch performance capped a season in which he won the PGA Tour's two most lucrative prizes. In March, his victory at the Players Championship was worth $270,000. Today, Mudd's fourth career victory catapulted him from 21st on the 1990 money list to fifth with a total of $911,746. Advertisement Mayfair, who began the day tied with Mudd for the lead, had a near-perfect round that was marred only by a missed 5-foot putt for a birdie on the 530-yard 13th hole, which would have given him a three-shot lead. After Mudd holed his birdie putt on the final hole of regulation, Mayfair just missed what would have been a winning birdie from 15 feet. On the playoff hole, the 431-yard, par-4 14th, Mayfair drove into woods on the right, and Mudd hit a perfect drive down the middle. Mayfair recovered with a shot about 50 yards short of the green, and Mudd hit an 8-iron 18 feet past the pin. Mayfair made a fine pitch to about 6 feet from the hole, but he never had to putt after Mudd's climactic stroke. "I feel like he won it; I don't feel like I lost it," said the 24-year-old Mayfair, who also lost a sudden-death playoff to Jim Gallagher at Milwaukee last month and is without a victory after two seasons on the PGA Tour. "I'll get one sooner or later. This is just going to make me work that much harder in the off season." A Few Obstacles Mudd was the only player in the field of the PGA Tour's 30 leading money winners to shoot in the 60's for four rounds over the par-71, 7,187-yard course, which featured seven par-4's of more than 440 yards.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Mudd overcame an out-of-bounds penalty on the par-5 ninth hole that led to a bogey and a recovery shot from underneath trees on the par-4 third hole that traveled only 20 yards before slamming into a cameraman and lodging between the man's abdomen and belly pack. Mudd received a free drop and scrambled for "one of the best fives I've ever made." "To think of the way I played the front nine and still won bewilders me," Mudd said. "It's hard for me to let it sink in because of the way Billy Mayfair played. He was really solid." Although the tournament boiled down to a duel between Mudd and Mayfair, the best round of the day was shot by Levi, whose eight-under 63 set a course record and put an exclamation point on his bid to become PGA Tour Player of the Year. Nine Birdies for Levi Starting the day at even par, nine shots behind Mayfair and Mudd, Levi made nine birdies and a bogey in his round. On the last two holes, the native of Herkimer, N.Y., made a 30-foot birdie putt on the 17th and then nearly holed his approach on the 18th before converting his remaining 4-footer. Advertisement With four victories and $1,024,647 in earnings in 1990 to finish second on the money list to Greg Norman, Levi feels he deserves to be voted player of the year by his peers. "It's pretty close, but yes, I think so," Levi said. "The Shark's got a good case, too. Every time he comes out he plays great. It's close." Norman, who began the day three shots out of the lead, never got closer than that while shooting a third successive 71 to finish tied for seventh with Tim Simpson at 279. Norman finished as the leading money winner for the year with $1,165,477. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 29, 1990, on Page C00008 of the National edition with the headline: GOLF; 3 Birdies Put $450,000 in Mudd's Hand.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »