Advertisement By CLIFTON BROWN The Knicks couldn't manage a last-minute victory last night, but they did manage to make a last-minute trade. Moments after their 92-89 loss to the Cleveland Cavaliers, the Knicks announced they had acquired 7-foot-2-inch center James Donaldson from the Dallas Mavericks in exchange for forward Brian Quinnett. Donaldson, who is 34 years old, is expected to be the backup center to Patrick Ewing. Quinnett, who was in his third season with the Knicks, did not play in the last four games and had not played in 16 of the last 21 games. So it appears the Knicks have acquired a backup center who can help them without giving up one of their key players. "James gives us a larger, more physical player to bring off the bench, and we think he can help us," said Ernie Grunfeld, the Knicks' vice president of player personnel, who added that the deal was completed just minutes before the 9 p.m. trading deadline. "We were kind of crowded at the small forward position with Xavier McDaniel and Kiki Vandeweghe, and we also play Gerald Wilkins at that spot sometimes. We feel Brian's going to be a good player, but you have to give something to get soemthing. James, we feel, is a player that we needed." Advertisement The Knicks (33-19) had to be sorry that Donaldson, who has averaged 6.2 points and 6.1 rebounds this season, was not around to help them last night. Advertisement Cleveland's winning basket was scored by Larry Nance, who put in a follow-up dunk with 19.1 seconds left after a missed shot by Craig Ehlo. It put the Cavaliers ahead to stay at 90-89. Desperation Shot Misses The Knicks squandered their chance to win when John Starks missed an open 15-foot baseline jumper with 5 seconds remaining. Mark Price (22 points, 9 assists), rebounded the miss and was fouled by Ewing (26 points, 17 rebounds) with 2.9 seconds left. Price made both free throws, and the Knicks were out of timeouts. So Mark Jackson was forced to launch a desperation heave from beyond halfcourt that clanged off the backboard as the final buzzer sounded. "It's a very frustrating loss," said Knicks coach Pat Riley, who watched New York lose its fourth consective game to Cleveland before a capacity crowd (19,763) at Madison Square Garden. "We had the game, I thought, in hand. We made some critical mistakes that cost us the game." New York led by 7 points with 4 mintues to play but let that advantage slip away. A crucial sequence occurred after Nance was called for goaltending on a hook shot by Ewing, giving the Knicks an 89-86 lead with 1:05 left.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Price answered with a running jump shot in the lane that cut the Knicks' lead to 1 point. Then Ewing was called for traveling trying to back Brad Daugherty (19 points, 14 rebounds) into the lane. Ewing's violation set the stage for Nance's tip-in. Then Starks (7 points), who made just 2 of his 8 field goal attempts, could not make his final shot after a pass from Jackson. "We didn't want to force-feed the ball to Patrick again, and John, I thought, got a pretty good look at the basket," Riley said. "In that situation, that's really all you can ask." The Knicks hope Donaldson will arrive in time to be in uniform for tomorrow night's home game against the Denver Nuggets. Donaldson had worn out his welcome in Dallas this season. He was involved in a fight during practice with teammate Rolando Blackman, and he was criticized after the fight by point guard Derek Harper. Then Donaldson tape-recorded a team meeting that was suppossed to clear the air, drawing more criticism from the Mavericks. Advertisement Donaldson was being shopped around the league by the Mavericks, and the Knicks think his attitude will improve with a change of scenery. "He's a veteran, I'm not worried about that," Grunfeld said. "He's been in the league a long time. I think everyone knows who our starting center is, so I'm not expecting any center controversy." The Knicks seemed enthused about the trade, although Quinnett was well-liked in the locker room. "James will help us," Ewing said. "He's strong and he's a big body. He knows how to play." Quinnett, who was told of the trade after the game, was surprised. "I was shocked," said Quinnett. "I'm going to miss New York, but I wasn't playing that much. I'm hoping this will be a good situation." As for the Knicks, they have not beaten Cleveland or the Chicago Bulls all season, two teams they may face in the playoffs. Does that worry them? "We know we can play with those teams," Jackson said. "We just have to work on finishing the games off better at the end." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 21, 1992, on Page B00007 of the National edition with the headline: BASKETBALL; Knicks Make Deal But Can't Stop Cavs.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »