Advertisement By FRANK LITSKY In the past, when the Giants played the Redskins, motivation was never a problem. The rivalry was so strong and the games so meaningful that the intensity seemed to rise automatically. When the Giants play the Redskins in Washington today, motivation could be a problem for both teams. The Redskins (13-1) have already clinched the home-field advantage for the National Football League playoffs. The Giants (7-7), less than 11 months after their Super Bowl triumph, are out of the playoff picture and playing out the string. The 4 P.M. game at Robert F. Kennedy Stadium will be carried in New York by CBS-TV (Channel 2) and WNEW radio (1130 AM). The Redskins are 9-point favorites. This is the next-to-last weekend of the regular season. It will be the first time since 1987 that the Giants are playing a meaningless game. Advertisement "It really stinks," said Erik Howard, the Giants' nose tackle. "You have to find something to play for. For us, what's left to play for except pride?" Something to Prove Advertisement Leonard Marshall, the Giants' defensive end, said the season had left him very disappointed. "This feels like 1987 all over again, not making the playoffs after winning the Super Bowl, searching for a reason why," he said. "The real truth then was that you were put in position to make plays and you didn't make them. It's your fault." Ottis Anderson, the Giants' 34-year-old running back, said there were goals to achieve. "This game is a chance for many players to show their talents," he said. "It's a chance for a player to prove that he's going to be something positive for the team. "You build for the future, which is next year. To do that, you want to go out on top. We would remember because we're playing quality teams: the Redskins now and Houston next week." 'Looking for Momentum' Mark Rypien, the Redskins' quarterback, said his team had motivation for this game, too. "You've got to go into this looking for momentum into the playoffs," he said. "The last seven or eight games we played against the Giants is enough reason to play well." The Giants have been trying to live up to a Super Bowl season with a new head coach, Ray Handley. Coach Joe Gibbs of the Redskins said he understood what the Giants were going through. "In the 1987 season," Gibbs said, "we won the Super Bowl. In 1988, we can't win a game and we finish 7-9. Every season is different. We had the same guys we had in the Super Bowl, but we lost. We suffered through the same things the Giants are going through now."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Gibbs recalled the 1981 season, his first as the Redskins' coach. "We were 0-5," he said. "It was brutal. I thought I would be the first coach in the N.F.L. to be fired before he won a game. "You're trying to get new chemistry with your staff. You're learning your players. It's a tough transition. The second year is easier. You've been through it. You're more comfortable." Advertisement Gibbs was certainly more comfortable the second year. In his first season, the Redskins finished at 8-8. In his second, they won the Super Bowl. Gibbs is comfortable now, too. He has seen Rypien, in his fifth pro season, become a smart, dependable quarterback. In the past, when things went wrong, Rypien used to walk of the field with head bowed, as if to say, "What did I do wrong?" Now, when something goes wrong, it is not always his fault, and when he thinks he is right he will argue on the sideline with the coaches. Surprising Offensive Line Earnest Byner has made the Redskins' running game sound again. Art Monk, Gary Clark and Ricky Sanders are still the most dangerous threesome of receivers around. The most surprising part of the Redskins has been the offensive line, anchored by Jim Lachey and the old-timers Joe Jacoby and Jeff Bostic. It is blocking better for the pass than the run and has allowed only five sacks all season. The Redskins' defense has been playing well. Charles Mann, despite a damaged knee, is still a strong pass-rushing end. Wilber Marshall and Andre Collins are having an outstanding year at outside linebacker, and Darrell Green remains a Pro Bowl cornerback. So the Giants face an uphill task against an apparently superior team. "You can't look at it that way," said Reyna Thompson, the Giants' coverage specialist. "We have to try to win the last two games, not just play them. If you lose them, you come back next year with more questions about yourself. If we win them, at least we get rid of a lot of questions." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 15, 1991, on Page 8008002 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL; With Nothing on the Line, Game Is Important.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »