Advertisement  Marseilles team officials verbally blasted a referee yesterday after disputed calls angered fans, who flooded the field and clashed with the police. Nineteen people were injured and the game was suspended. The incident Friday night, which could result in new penalties for Olympique Marseilles, was the latest blow to a team stripped of its championship title because of a payoff scandal. Metz was winning, 3-0, when the game was halted three minutes before the end, and Marseilles fans threw objects and ran onto the field after the referee threw two of their team's players out of the match, including the team's star, BASILE BOLI. The clashes around the Marseilles stadium injured 11 police officers and 8 fans, officials said. Four people were arrested. Marseilles booster clubs are known to be among France's rowdiest. BERNARD TAPIE, owner of Olympic Marseilles and a leftist member of Parliament, rejected any theory of a conspiracy by the club to cause the violence and blamed the unrest on "a group of troublemakers." Acting under pressure from the world soccer federation, the French soccer federation on Wednesday stripped Marseilles of its 1993 national championship. It barred the former general manager JEAN-PIERRE BERNES and a former player, JEAN-JACQUES EYDELIE, from the sport as well as the Valenciennes players CHRISTOPHE ROBERT and JORGE BURRUCHAGA, who are charged with receiving the payoff. World soccer officials withdrew their threat of banning France from competition, leaving it in the running for the World Cup games in the United States next year. But they said the French ruling would likely keep Marseilles out of international matches. (AP) We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 26, 1993, on Page 8008013 of the National edition with the headline: SPORTS PEOPLE: SOCCER; Angry Marseilles Fans Spar With the Police.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »