Advertisement By WILLIAM N. WALLACE Princeton To see how they run, the place to be tomorrow is Fisher Field in Easton, Pa., where Lafayette and Princeton will meet. The runners are Keith Elias and Erik Marsh, two of the best in the East and all of Division I-AA. Elias, the Tiger tailback, began his senior season last Saturday with 259 all-purpose yards gained against Cornell, 188 by rushing, in an important 18-12 victory. Marsh, a junior, had 120 by rushing against Buffalo as the Leopards won for the second time. Against Lafayette a year ago, at Princeton, Elias had his biggest day as the two teams combined for 989 yards of total offense, 608 by rushing. The Tigers won, 38-35, and Elias ran for 299 yards and four touchdowns. It mattered little that Marsh had 182 and one touchdown. He is from Hellertown, Pa., right near Lehigh's Goodman Stadium, and in 22 games for the Leopards he has gained 100 or more yards 13 times. The edge goes to Princeton because of a stronger defense.  Yale The Bulldogs, with all kinds of problems, take on Connecticut in the Yale Bowl. This looks like a mismatch because the Huskies have so much more power, size and speed. Advertisement Take Wilbur Gilliard, the tailback. He scored five touchdowns against James Madison last Saturday, four against Yale last year, and is not even listed as the starter. Ed Long holds that distinction. Advertisement Yale has no one comparable to Zeke Rodgers, a 6-foot-4-inch, 200-pounder, at quarterback. The Bulldogs' quarterback will be Steve Mills, who replaces the injured Chris Hetherington, out with a severe groin pull. Connecticut has defeated Yale in 9 of their last 10 games and outscored the Bulldogs, 190-67, in the last five. Yet, Yale just agreed to continue the series for five more years, with all games at Yale Bowl.  Army Akili King continues to run at will for Army while playing fullback in the wishbone offense. That position has only one play, the straight-ahead plunge, and King has gained 357 yards in two games. Tomorrow's opponent at Michie Stadium is Virginia Military, which has lost twice while showing little offense.  Hofstra In its new role as a Division I-AA independent, Hofstra has had to scratch for opponents, and athletic director Jim Garveycame up with Illinois State for a home game tomorrow.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Redbirds from Normal, Ill., are not to be taken lightly. They play in the Gateway Conference, one of I-AA's stronger leagues, and this season they upset McNeese State and beat Tennessee Tech while losing to Ball State, a I-A team. Because he caught 13 passes for 205 yards, all in the second half of the Flying Dutchmen's loss to Lehigh, wide receiver Wayne Chrebet won one of the Metropolitan New York Football Writers Association's new weekly awards.  C.W. Post Another of these awards went to Perry Klein, the Pioneers' quarterback who had an astonishing day as director of the run-and-shoot offense. He passed for 417 yards and 5 touchdowns with 24 completions of 44 attempts in an unexpected 38-34 victoryover Rowan, the defending New Jersey Athletic Conference champion. Advertisement Klein, 6-4 and 215 pounds, from Malibu, Calif., transferred to Post from California-Berkeley in part because of his father's friendship with Gary Wichard, a sports agent and a former well-known Pioneer player. Klein is still somewhat startled at being in the East. "I never saw so many trees," he said. "And I never heard of these teams we're playing." The next foe is Marist, at Poughkeepsie tomorrow.  F.D.U.-Madison The Jersey Devils' victory over Lycoming, a Division III power, on the road at Williamsport, Pa., was the most significant in the history of the sport at the college according to the veteran coach and athletic director, Bill Klika. Linebacker Ed Schon won the third Metro New York Writers' award for his 10 tackles, two intercepted passes, one pass break-up, one sack and one fumble recovery. A capacity crowd of 4,000 might turn out for tonight's home game against Johns Hopkins.  Montclair State The Red Hawks accomplished something they thought was impossible: holding the Bombers of Ithaca College to no points. The victory, 29-0, was Montclair's first over Ithaca, always an upstate Division III titan, since 1966. Rick Giancola, not given to superlatives, said the performance was the best he could remember and this is his 12th season as the Red Hawk coach.  Extra Points Rodney Bond of Jersey City State was the N.J.A.C.'s offensive player of the week for his 233 yards gained rushing as the Gothic Knights broke a 20-game losing streak with a 20-20 tie against Stony Brook. . . . The New England Small College Conference begins tomorrow. Trinity, one favorite, plays at Bates and Williams, the other favorite, is at Colby. Amherst, under new Coach Jack Siedlecki, visits Hamilton. . . . Iona is host to Georgetown in a Metropolitan Atlantic Conference (I-AA) match. The two have never met before in football, and it is the opening game for the Hoyas, who have a new coach, Bob Benson. He came from John Hopkins. William N. Wallace We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 24, 1993, on Page B00014 of the National edition with the headline: COLLEGE FOOTBALL REPORT.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »