Advertisement By GERALD ESKENAZI and  Blue -- make that black-and-blue -- Monday struck the Jets today. It was difficult to diagnose which was worse: Their physical state or their psychic makeup in the wake of a second straight Sunday in which they squandered a big lead. But if they are to get better, perhaps the coming bye week will help them, at least medically. For they learned that their starting running back, Blair Thomas, and key receiver, Rob Moore, are going to be sidelined, perhaps as long as a month apiece. Moore will undergo arthroscopic surgery Tuesday to repair cartilage in his right knee. The Jets said that would keep him out three to four weeks. Thomas has a hamstring injury that will keep him out two to four weeks. He is unlikely to be ready when the Jets return to action against the Buffalo Bills at the Meadowlands on Oct. 24. Injury a Mystery Advertisement Moore was in the dark on how his injury occurred. "I got tackled and when I got up the knee buckled," he said today. The second-quarter injury was sustained just before the Jets went ahead of the Raiders, 17-0. Advertisement But Boomer Esiason had only one more completion to a wide receiver. When Moore went to the sideline, he had amassed more receiving yardage, 362, than any other receiver in the American Conference. After Moore's injury, Esiason's yards-per-completion sagged dramatically -- from more than 14 to less than 6. The Jets got only a field goal the rest of the game, lost in the final seconds and dropped to 2-3 on the season. Terance Mathis will join Chris Burkett at wide receiver while Moore is out. Johnny Johnson will shoulder the bulk of the running back duty, with help from rookie Adrian Murrell. The team said no new players will be brought in, so Coach Bruce Coslet today began to deal with the players he has, and how he and his players can overcome this mini-trend of losing big leads, which began last Sunday when the Jets led Philadelphia, 21-0, only to lose, 35-30. Coslet: It's Not Over Yet When Coslet gathered his stunned troops for the day-after heart-to-heart, he told them they were like a fighter in a 16-round championship bout. "We got hit with jabs the last two rounds," he said. "We're down 2 rounds to 3." There are 11 rounds, or games, to go, Coslet told them. He does not believe this is symptomatic of some deeper malaise, the kind that has given the Jets a reputation of never quite attaining expectations.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Instead, Coslet points to one breakdown after another. On Sunday they began with the first drive of the game. The Jets blew a faked field-goal attempt when the holder, Louie Aguiar, lofted a pass that was intercepted by Eddie Anderson. The pass never should have been thrown, said Coslet. In fact, the Jets had practiced the fake field goal "at least 25 times," said Coslet, more than any other play they had practiced last week for the Raiders. The Jets had dissected the Raiders' previous four games. Each time the Raiders were in a certain alignment when they went for a blocked field-goal. Advertisement "If they were in the same look, we were going to fake," Coslet said. "If not, we don't fake. They weren't in the same look." A Backup Theory Meanwhile, cornerback Eric Thomas had his own theory of how the Jets messed up for the second straight Sunday: the back-up quarterbacks. First, Bubby Brister replaced Randall Cunningham for the Eagles, completed 11 of 16 passes and tossed a pair of touchdowns, and then 38-year-old Vince Evans came in for Jeff Hostetler, amassed 247 yards and threw for a pair of touchdowns. "We were hoping Hostetler would stay in the game longer, hoping he'd throw some more interceptions," Thomas said. "We prepared more for Hostetler. We expected a guy who would stay in the pocket, not someone as mobile as Evans." And in Brister, it was just the opposite. The Jets prepared for the slithery Cunningham, and instead got the stolid Brister. Along those lines, defensive lineman Bill Pickel, who generated a big game for the Jets, had an observation about the news that the Dolphins' Dan Marino will be out for the year: "The way we're playing against second-string quarterbacks, maybe it would be better for us if Marino were healthy."  EXTRA POINTS The Jets are off until Friday, when they start preparing for Buffalo. . . . Jets center JIM SWEENEY , hampered by a serious ankle injury, started for the 141st straight game -- the last 40 at center -- but he played in only one series. . . . The Jets are averaging almost 12 points a game more than last year, when they were 1-4 at this point. . . . Starting slowly is a Jets' tradition. They have not had a winning record after five games since 1988. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 12, 1993, on Page B00014 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL; For Jets, Day After Is Another Headache.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »