Advertisement By WILLIAM N. WALLACE Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference St. John's is the host team for the first game of a new Division I-AA football league, the six-team Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference. Commissioner Rich Ensor, calls it low-budget, with no athletic scholarships. "We plan a competitive league that stresses academic, as well as athletic, achievement," Ensor said. "We are a part of the N.C.A.A.'s stress on cost containments." This league was designed to implement the National Collegiate Athletic Association edict that members could no longer field teams in different classifications. That meant schools with Division I basketball teams had to upgrade their football programs from the Division III level. Thus, the M.A.A.C. The five other members are Canisius, Georgetown, Iona, St. Peter's and Siena, with Duquesne and Marist coming on board next season. Advertisement Because basketball is an income-producer for these teams, that sport in effect will help finance the football programs. The trade-off is that there are four times as many participants in football as basketball.  St. John's Advertisement In preseason rankings, St. John's and St. Peter's were first and second, and they play tomorrow night at Redmen Field in Jamaica, Queens. Anthony Russo, the St. John's tailback who has gained 4,276 yards and scored 41 touchdowns in three previous seasons, will have the attention of the Peacocks. But they had best not ignore Sean Sharkey, who can throw the football far and often. Ray Lambright, the linebacker who missed almost all of last season, is back, and Coach Bob Ricca says he is one of the best defensive players St. John's has had. Ricca views the step up from Division III to I-AA as merely cosmetic, since the programs (and budgets) essentially remain the same.  St. Peter's Ray Miller is an example of a coach who has made a difference. Last year, in his second season, he directed the Peacocks to a 7-2 record, their best mark ever. Before he came from Jersey City State, no St. Peter's team had ever won more than five games and only four had won four. Twice since 1980, the team collapsed because of a shortage of players and failed to complete its schedule. Last year, Miller's efforts were interrupted by surgery for colon cancer. He coached the team from the press box in its last game, a victory over its city rival, Jersey City State, for the Boulevard Block Trophy.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Miller has a seasoned offense that features a particularly effective passing duo: Anthony Guma to Ray Marshall.  Monmouth The first Monmouth College football team will play its first game tomorrow against Stonehill in North Easton, Mass. Kevin Callahan, the coach hired a year ago, managed to convince 110 players to enroll for the I-AA program without scholarships, and following preseason camp, "89 are still here," he said. Advertisement "We will start three sophomores and 19 freshmen," Callahan said. "We have no returning anythings." What was Callahan's recruiting theme for the West Branch, N.J., college? "Look at our magnificent new facilities," he said. "Get in on the ground floor of something that's just beginning. Be among the first." Wagner The Seahawks open at home tomorrow, at Fischer Field on Staten Island, against an old rival, C. W. Post.  Wagner is another team stepping up from Division III to I-AA and will play as an independent. But Walt Hameline, the coach and athletic director, thinks that the parent basketball conference, the Northeast, will stitch together a football league next season. Hameline begins his 13th season with a stunning .756 winning percentage. His 92-30-2 record includes one Division III national championship. The standout among the Seahawks is linebacker Ryan Tobin from Milford, Conn., and linebacker Bryan Devone from Hempstead, L.I., is not far behind. Terry O'Hare, so vital in last year's 9-2 season that included the ECAC South championship, is gone and Jason Cue, a junior transfer from Maine, is the new quarterback. Montclair State The Red Hawks will send out an offensive line averaging 6 feet 3 inches and 280 pounds in their opener tomorrow against Cortland State in Cortland, N.Y. That line will grow larger as soon as Joe Pennepledi is ready. A transfer from Arizona State, Pennepledi is 6-7 and 330 pounds. Cortland State defeated Montclair State last season and went on to win a playoff game against Bentley for the ECAC Northwest championship.  Notes Rowan, the defending champion, is favored again in the New Jersey Athletic Conference, in part because Ed Hessan remains at quarterback. . . . Pace will sport new uniforms with white pants instead of gold and a new field in its opener against Stony Brook in Pleasantville, N.Y. . . . New Haven picked up where it left off in 1992 by beating West Chester, 45-33. The Chargers, 12-1 last season, averaged 588 yards and 50.5 points a game, the highest figures in college football. They play at the University of Buffalo tomorrow, a foe they beat a year ago, 69-48. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 10, 1993, on Page B00014 of the National edition with the headline: COLLEGE FOOTBALL REPORT.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »