Advertisement By AL HARVIN In what may be one more sign that they are contemplating a major change at quarterback next season, the Jets announced yesterday that they are not renewing the contract of Joe Daniels, the quarterbacks coach. "I appreciate the job Joe did for us the past two seasons, but I've decided to make a change and go in another direction," Jets Coach Bruce Coslet said in a brief announcement issued by the club. The new direction Coslet apparently plans to go in is away from the incumbent Ken O'Brien and toward Browning Nagle, last year's second-round draft choice out of Louisville. Right after the Jets lost to the Oilers in a wild-card playoff game on Dec. 29, Coslet made it clear there would be a wide-open battle for the starting quarterback job next season between Nagle; Troy Taylor, a fourth-round pick out of California two years ago, and O'Brien, if he chooses to come back. Advertisement O'Brien's contract is up next month and the Jets are expected to offer him considerably less per year in a new pact than the $1.45 million he was paid this season. No Replacement Named Advertisement No replacement was announced for the 49-year-old Daniels, who was Gerry Faust's offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach at Akron in 1989 before joining the Jets staff. Daniels was also the receivers coach for the Cleveland Browns in 1983 and 1984 and the receivers coach for the Buffalo Bills in 1986.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The 31-year-old O'Brien is in second place behind Joe Namath on the Jets' career passing yardage list. This season, he became the only quarterback in club history to pass for over 3,000 yards in four different seasons, (1985, '86, '89 and '91). Nevertheless, it was an uneven season. His 10 touchdown passes amounted to his lowest output since 1984, when he started five games and passed for six touchdowns. During the regular season, O'Brien was unable to connect on even one touchdown pass with Al Toon, the Jets' No. 1 receiver. Toon did catch a scoring pass in the playoff game against the Oilers. Before the Jets drafted Nagle, General Manager Dick Steinberg watched him perform under the tutelage of Louisville Coach Howard Schnellenberger and was impressed with his arm strength. Coslet wanted to give him more playing time during the year, but the only game he could afford to use him was in the Jets' 24-3 trouncing of the San Diego Chargers in the Meadowlands. In that game, Nagle completed 1 of 2 passes for 10 yards and no touchdowns. Coslet operates as his own offensive coordinator, but it is likely that he plans to bring in someone else to replace Daniels and tutor Nagle in the intricacies of N.F.L. quarterbacking. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 7, 1992, on Page B00014 of the National edition with the headline: FOOTBALL; Jets' Quarterback Coach Is Dismissed by Coslet.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »