Advertisement By HARVEY ARATON and  Looking down from the starter's shack, at a 63-degree drop to begin a 3,130-foot testimonial to acrophobia, Bernhard Russi spoke of his creation as a parent would about a growing child. "I worry," said the man who designed the course -- La Face de Bellevarde -- on which the Olympic downhill is scheduled to be run Sunday afternoon. "I worry because for four years I have been here working toward this, up and down this mountain more times than I could remember. I worry because now it is here but there are things, like the weather, that are out of my control." As Russi spoke, the wind was whipping up and a mist was rolling in to the top of Bellevarde, making even the nearest snow-capped peaks invisible. After heavy snow Monday night and Tuesday, this was not a good omen for the training runs, which are supposed to begin Thursday morning. On a day that began with a sky of brilliant blue, when one could see the finish line from the top of the course, the midafternoon clouds soon enveloped everything except for the clifflike drop at the start of the race. 'Thunder' on the Mountain At the top of Bellevarde, just away from the starter's shack over by the small house the skiers will use to keep warm while awaiting their run, the announcer, Dick Stockton, and a former United States Olympian, Andy Mill, were shooting a television spot for CBS. A loud, sudden thunder clap made everyone jump. Mill, the husband of Chris Evert, explained that it was dynamite going off elsewhere on the mountain, man-made avalanches to move snow off the course. Advertisement "A big cherry bomb," Mill said. Soon, as Russi left to inspect that area, he was replaced at the open end of the shack by Harald Schoenhaar, a former United States Alpine coach and the start referee for Sunday's race. Advertisement "I'm going to be up here for the next four days, watching these guys drop right into this elevator shaft," he said, looking out at nature's miracle. "They'll all leave here with the same primal scream." Keeping the Critics at Bay Riding up the mountain on the tram, Russi had been asked to respond to criticism made last winter by several downhillers -- A. J. Kitt of the United States among them -- that the new course was indeed challenging and quick at the top but not much of a true, kamikaze downhill after that. It had too many tight turns, too much bumpy terrain, not enough straightaway for a wild run right down to the finish line, not far from the center of this resort village. Russi, dark-haired and blue-eyed, smiled and, making a sweeping gesture with his hand, invited his guest to look out from the ascending tram at the mountain and see for himself. "They wanted something special, a downhill that would be almost completely visible from the town itself," he said. "This was the mountain. You are not creating something from nothing. You are working with what the mountain gives you. This mountain is much too steep for a straightaway."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Russi, now 44 years old, is a Swiss who won the Olympic downhill gold medal in 1972 and finished second to Franz Klammer in 1976. He was a versatile skier who was comfortable with a downhiller's classic speed and a technical skier's appreciation for the sport's finesse. In 1982, he was asked by the Swiss Federation to inspect a site for a course it was hoping to build. Russi had opinions and, not many years later, a reputation as the world's premier downhill architect. He designed the downhill run for the 1988 Calgary Games and the course that will be used at the 1994 Winter Games in Lillehammer, Norway. La Face de Bellevarde has not yet been used in international competition, although two training runs were staged last February before weather canceled the World Cup event. Russi conceded that he wished that his child could have walked before it was required to run. He worries not only about weather, but also about light and depth perception, because the mountain is above the tree line, and has no natural sight lines. He worries, ultimately, for the skiers' safety. He pointed out several daunting areas. He called them "the key points you design the course around." About one-third of the way down, there is the Tower Turn -- a 110-degree right turn leading directly into a 90-degree left turn. Further down, there is the Boulder Turn -- through a harrowing 40-foot wide pass around a group of small boulders. That turn leads into what Russi estimated to be a 150-foot jump -- looking right into the finish line crowd, bleachers and village -- and on into the final straightaway. 'A Good Olympic Downhill' Advertisement "I think the skiers will find something different that they think is the most difficult part," Russi said. "Just like some of them will agree with the way the course was set and some will not. It's going to be a good Olympic downhill, I know that. But I'm still nervous, probably more nervous than any of the racers." He was asked, finally, if he would watch the racers make their dramatic plunge down his design from here, the starter's shack in the sky. He shook his head. "I'll probably watch on TV," he said high up in the cloud cover, "so I can see everything." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 6, 1992, on Page B00014 of the National edition with the headline: ALBERTVILLE '92; The Downhill: Awaiting Primal Screams.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »