Advertisement By THOMAS GEORGE and  Helping the World League of American Football kick off its second season on solid footing, somehow finding a solution to the National Football League's labor mess and preventing a court battle three months from now are the priorities for the N.F.L., Commissioner Paul Tagliabue said today as the league owners concluded their annual meeting. The World League, which opens Saturday, has promised a better product this year and more return to the N.F.L. owners for their investments by providing a stronger pool of players for N.F.L. scouts. Tagliabue said those expectations were realistic. "Maybe we're still building the first story of a three-story house in terms of the league's quality of play and appeal," Tagliabue said of the World League. "I've talked to N.F.L. personnel who are surprised at some of the players they sent to the league who were cut. Maybe that's an indication of the growing strength of the league, but we're going to have to wait and see." As for labor peace, there appears to be no quick solution. The N.F.L. has not had a collective-bargaining agreement with the players since 1982, chiefly because the players have demanded free agency and the owners have balked. That is why the players hope to resolve their differences in the Freeman McNeil case, which is scheduled to begin on June 15. Advertisement Tagliabue said behind-the-scenes negotiations leave him hopeful that an agreement can be reached before the trial. Advertisement The commissioner also had comments on the following issues: TV CONTRACT The league has tabled until March 30 in Dallas discussions on whether to give a $210 million rollback to the networks and extend the current TV contract two years through 1995. Tagliabue favors the move to help the networks and said that only "four or five clubs" flatly oppose the deal.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS The league is waiting for Patriots majority owner Victor Kiam to decide whether he will accept an offer to purchase the team from St. Louis businessman James B. Orthwein. Tagliabue has endorsed the deal and said that, in any event, the Patriots would remain in New England. INSTANT REPLAY The owners' decision not to renew the instant-replay rule for the 1992 season makes it hard for the commissioner to say whether replays will ever return. "To me, the most significant part of the replay decision is we've restored a level of input and significance to the officials in our game," he said. NON-CELEBRATORY RULES Last year the league tried to crack down on player celebrations, dances and taunting. Tagliabue said he would tend to be more lenient for celebrations after a score and offer more restraint and penalties on player celebrations and taunting during the flow of a game or a drive. Tagliabue wanted instant replay continued, wanted the TV deal approved and hoped to have more encouraging news on the labor front. None of that happened here. How is he being judged in his third year as commissioner? "Some say I will be judged as the labor commissioner, some say as the replay commissioner and others as the World League, international football commissioner. I don't know. I leave that up to others to decide." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 20, 1992, on Page B00014 of the National edition with the headline: FOOTBALL; Replay Out of the Loop, N.F.L. Fast Forwards.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »