Advertisement By MURRAY CHASS Baseball's waiver rules are only slightly better understood than the plans for the design and operation of the $1 billion Mars Observer spacecraft. The waiver system burst into characteristic confusion the other day when the Atlanta Braves tried to acquire Dennis Martinez from the Montreal Expos. The Braves failed to get the veteran pitcher, but they succeeded in preventing the San Francisco Giants from getting him. And that, after all, was the Braves' No. 1 reason for putting in a claim when the Expos placed Martinez's name on the waiver wire. "That's gamesmanship; that's fair play," said Bob Quinn, the Giants' general manager. "There's no foul play involved." Some Questions Arise But there are questions. If the Expos put Martinez on waivers and he was claimed, how could they trade him? Why could they trade him to the Braves, but not the Giants? Can the Expos try to trade Martinez again, either to one of those two teams or someone else? How can one team block another from getting a player? Is blocking a common tactic? Advertisement "I heard the Yankees blocked every decent starting pitcher that was out there," said one general manager. "I heard it was about 45 pitchers. I don't know for a fact, but that's what I hear." Advertisement Another official said he didn't know whether the number was 45, but he said he was aware of many pitchers the Yankees claimed. The Yankees tried to make trades for some of those pitchers, the general manager said, but they "tried to get them without giving up anything." The Yankees, like all teams, do not talk about their waiver maneuvers. The general manager spoke on the condition that he wouldn't be identified. Their reasons are the same. "The leagues send out a memo saying waivers are confidential information and shouldn't be discussed," the general manager said. Shroud of Secrecy The secrecy surrounding waivers is one of the reasons people find them difficult to comprehend. Not just ordinary people either. General managers themselves don't know all of the waiver rules. For example, after the Martinez episode, two general managers of other clubs were asked when the Expos could put the pitcher on waivers again and they said it could be done immediately. But the rules say the Expos must wait 30 days from the time they withdrew Martinez from waivers to put him on again. "They need another 30 days so, effectively, the player is off the marketplace," Quinn said. Accepting that reality, Quinn renewed talks with Minnesota and yesterday gave the Twins three minor leaguers for Jim Deshaies, a veteran left-hander who had cleared waivers in the first week of the month and could be traded at any time. The earliest the Expos could ask waivers on Martinez again would be Sept. 27. The 72-hour claiming period would be up at 2 P.M. Sept. 30. The best he could then do would be to pitch one of the last three games of the season. He would not be eligible for post-season play because he would not have been on the team's roster on Aug. 31. In a Fix Aside from that scenario, the Expos wouldn't ask waivers on Martinez again because if someone were to claim him the second time around during the same waiver period, the Expos could not withdraw him and would lose him for the $20,000 waiver price. Advertisement The year has three waiver periods: Aug. 1 through Nov. 10, Nov. 11 to 30 days into the season, and 30 days into the season through July 31. This is the most critical of the three periods because players have to clear waivers before they can be traded. Clubs can put a maximum of seven names on the waiver wire each day. If a player is claimed by more than one team, the team that has the lowest winning percentage in the player's league is the one that gets the player. That is, it gets the player if his team doesn't withdraw him within the allotted 48 hours. The Braves, the Giants and the Philadelphia Phillies claimed Martinez. The Braves, who are loaded with outstanding starting pitchers, didn't need Martinez, but they didn't want him to go to the Giants, who need another solid starter to help them hold off the Braves. The Expos were not about to let Martinez go to Atlanta for $20,000. "We asked the Braves if they were interested in talking about a deal, they said they were and we asked them to give us some ideas," General Manager Dan Duquette said. The Final Word  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In other words, if the Braves came up with a player the Expos liked, they were willing to lose Martinez. If not, they would withdraw him from waivers and keep him. In this instance, though, Martinez had the final word because his seniority gives him veto rights over a trade. In most instances, the player doesn't have that right, but in most instances, too, clubs withdraw claimed players. Most often, too, especially this season, the waiver claims have been aimed at blocking a club's ability to trade a player who clears waivers. The Yankees, for example, put in claims for all of those pitchers to prevent any of them from reaching Toronto. "There's probably been more blocking of pitchers than ever before," one general manager said. Irrevocable and Equivocal General managers are plagued by another kind of waivers, those they need to send a player outright to the minor leagues when his three options have been used. Teams are reluctant to ask for outright waivers because they fear they would lose him. The rule was instituted during the 1990 labor negotiations, at the players' insistence, as a way of keeping teams from burying players in the minors. But Joe McIlvaine, the Mets' general manager, offered an example of how the rule can hurt a player. Advertisement "Take the case of two of our young pitchers, Anthony Young and Pete Schourek," McIlvaine said. "Young had two options left, so we could send him down to get the work he needs. But Schourek is out of options. To send him to the minors, we would have to put him through irrevocable waivers, and if someone claimed him, we lose him for $20,000. "The best thing for him would be to go back to the minors and get a wake-up call. But I can't do it." A Look at the Races Who is in the division races as the season enters its final five weeks? The Atlanta Braves, for sure. In the last five weeks, they have won 25 games and lost 8 for a .758 percentage, slashing six games from San Francisco's 10-game lead. The race will intensify during the three-game series between the teams in Atlanta beginning Tuesday night. The St. Louis Cardinals, for sure not. The Cardinals arrived in Philadelphia July 27 only four games behind the Phillies, lost all three games there and continued losing, staggering to a 13-17 record in a woeful month during which they plunged 11 games back. Texas and Kansas City are, courtesy of the White Sox. The Yankees and the Toronto Blue Jays obviously, but don't ask about Baltimore, Boston and Detroit. Following their earlier-season patterns, the Orioles and the Red Sox are slipping out while the Tigers have revived themselves and are trying to make it appear they are back in. The Orioles, entering last night's game, had a 5-12 record since Aug. 10. The Red Sox are 5-11 since Aug. 11. The Tigers had an 8-18 record from July 11 to Aug. 10, falling as far as nine and a half behind, but are 14-4 since then. Thomas Takes Up Diving Frank Thomas, in only his third full season in the major leagues, already is one of the best all-round hitters, slugging with power and swinging for a good batting average. He doesn't want to stop there, though. "The first couple years I put up big numbers, but it left me short for the All-Star team and m.v.p.," Thomas said. "People were making a big thing out of how bad my defense was." So during spring training, Thomas put in extra time on his defense. Statistics don't reflect improvement; Thomas has committed 14 errors compared with 13 all last season. But errors can be a misleading guide to a player's effort. Advertisement "I've made a few extra errors because I'm more aggressive this year, going after more balls," Thomas said. "I'm diving for balls. I got some diving and then threw them away. I think my work is paying off." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 29, 1993, on Page 8008007 of the National edition with the headline: NOTEBOOK; Baseball Confidential: Piercing Waiver Wire's Code of Silence.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »