Advertisement By FRANK LITSKY Is Dan Marino a dangerous passer? Usually. Is Sammie Smith a dangerous runner? He was in his first two games this season. But today, Marino and Smith were the ones in danger. The Miami Dolphins had the ball for only 19 minutes 42 seconds and when they had it they found themselves smothered by the Giants' defense. A result was a 20-3 victory for the Giants before an approving crowd of 76,483 at Giants Stadium. The Giants' offense, especially 32-year-old Ottis Anderson, ran and hammered. And when that offense needed help, it got if from Phil Simms's third-down passes to Dave Meggett. Anderson scored twice on 1-yard runs and Raul Allegre kicked field goals of 22 and 45 yards. Allegre missed a 40-yarder when he misjudged a swirling wind. Advertisement Unbeaten and in First Place The victory raised the Giants' division-leading record to 3-0. The Dolphins fell to 2-1. Advertisement On the last play of the game, Lawrence Taylor, the Giants' All-Pro outside linebacker, injured the hamstring muscle in his left thigh. The Giants will not know until Monday if the injury will keep him out of next Sunday's game here against the Dallas Cowboys. Taylor was hurt while rushing Scott Secules, who had replaced Marino for the last series. After light contact with the Dolphin blocking him, Taylor grabbed the hamstring. When Taylor reached the locker room after the game, he was limping slightly. Coach Bill Parcells said only that Taylor had ''pulled the hamstring a bit.'' Parcells was asked why Taylor and not a second-stringer was in the game then. ''I can't think for everyone around here,'' Parcells said. Angry Reply Did the coach mean an assistant should have taken Taylor out of the game before that? ''I don't mean anything,'' Parcells replied angrily.  The normal practice is for assistant coaches to make most substitutions. Parcells sounded happy about everything else.  ''I thought our defense was excellent,'' he said, ''as good as we've played against a quarterback like that in a long time.'' The Dolphins entered the game ranked second in the National Football League in total offense and third in rushing. The Giants held them to 158 yards in total offense, only 39 of them rushing, and 16 of the 39 yards came on a scramble by Secules. Smith, who had been averaging 107.5 yards a game, got only 9 yards on 5 carries. But the Dolphins have won before without a good running game because they have such an explosive passer in Marino. He likes to pass quickly, usually from a three-step drop, and had not been sacked this year. Here, he was sacked once and pressured constantly. Games, but No Fun for Marino ''We rushed him pretty hard,'' said Erik Howard, the Giants' nose tackle. ''We played a lot of end-tackle games, end and nose-tackle games. When Pepper Johnson was playing linebacker, he got in some of the games.'' Advertisement End-tackle games consist of one defender looping behind another. The idea is to confuse the blockers, and the Giants took special aim at Richmond Webb, the Dolphins' left tackle, and Keith Sims, the left guard, both rookies.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ''It was an education for our offensive line,'' said Don Shula, the Dolphins' coach. ''It was a real disappointment.'' Pressure up front was especially important in this game. For one, in Mark Clayton and Mark Duper, the Dolphins have quick, elusive receivers who can turn short passes into long gains. For another, Mark Collins, the Giants' best cornerback, is on injured reserve with a sprained right ankle. Between them, Clayton and Duper caught 8 passes for 76 yards. In all, Marino completed 14 of 30 for 115 yards and had a pair intercepted. The Giants addressed their cornerback problem by having Reyna Thompson and Everson Walls play the entire game and Perry Williams perhaps half the game. Walls played right cornerback in the regular defense, safety in the nickel and inside on the dime. They also had the cornerbacks bumping the receivers at the line of scrimmage. ''Marino throws a lot to spots,'' said Dave Duerson, the Giants' backup safety. ''His receivers run timing routes, and we tried to take them out of those routes.'' Long Drive The Giants' offense set the tone for the game in the opening quarter when it held the ball for 10:25 en route to Allegre's first field goal. The other touchdown came on a drive of only 11 yards. Early in the third quarter, the Dolphins had closed their deficit to 10-3 on Pete Stoyanovich's 51-yard field goal. Early in the fourth quarter, from the Dolphins' 9-yard line, Marino was under heavy pressure from Leonard Marshall when he passed to Clayton. The receiver was hit immediately by Williams and Greg Jackson. Williams stripped the ball, and Taylor recovered for the Giants on the 11. Advertisement It appeared that Clayton never had possession and thus the pass should have been ruled incomplete. But the officials on the field ruled the play a completion and a fumble, and the instant-replay official backed them. ''I didn't have control,'' Clayton said. ''But one or two bad calls don't make a game.'' Anderson finished with 25 carries for 72 yards. He raised his career rushing total to 9,433 yards, moving him past Earl Campbell into eighth place on the N.F.L.'s career rushing list. On Wednesday, Meggett was absent without permission, a message to Giants' management that he wanted his 1989 rookie contract upgraded to reflect his big-play success. Today, he caught four passes: for 22 yards on third-and-20, 21 yards on third-and-6, 38 yards on second-and-8 and 12 yards on third-and-21. With offensive production like that, the defense rested.  ''Our most valuable defensive player in the first half was our offense,'' said Steve DeOssie, the Giants' inside linebacker, ''because it kept Marino off the field.'' Special to The New York Times We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 24, 1990, on Page C00001 of the National edition with the headline: Giants Smother Dolphins.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »