Advertisement By THOMAS GEORGE All the Buffalo Bills' worst fears turned into reality in Super Bowl XXVI. The Washington Redskins' 37-24 thumping on Sunday was so complete and so embarrassing for the Bills that they left here with what was for them the worst possible scenario: being compared to the Denver Broncos and the Minnesota Vikings as teams that can be counted on to turn Super Bowls into Super Flops. That's two straight losses now for Buffalo in the big show, matching Denver and Minnesota as the only teams to suffer such misery. There are indications the Bills can stroll through the American Conference again in 1992, reach Super Bowl XXVII next year in Pasadena, Calif., and again encounter another rugged National Conference team that would make them the first franchise in Super Bowl history to lose three straight title games. After this disaster, Bills Coach Marv Levy was talking about a third trip being the charm. With the N.F.C.'s current reign of eight consecutive titles, Levy's remarks fell on many disbelieving ears. Advertisement What happened? Here are a few answers: LET'S GET PHYSICAL : Washington started with a two-tight-end offense and on occasion used three tight ends. On defense, its front four was able to beat the Bills off the ball, and blitzes by its linebackers and even cornerbacks forced Bills quarterback Jim Kelly to look to see who would be hitting him next instead of concentrating downfield on his receivers. Buffalo tried similar blitzing tactics on Redskins quarterback Mark Rypien, but the difference was that Washington found and even created free rushing lanes while Buffalo's blitzes always got caught inside amid the bulk of the Redskins' Hogs, their mammoth offensive line. Advertisement At other times, it was simply a numbers game. "In their style of offense," said Redskins linebacker Wilber Marshall, "they don't have enough people to block us. They've got five linemen and we've got seven up front. So, you've got a big line coming through and you have to be awful quick. Even when we went to our regular defense we always had one guy coming off the corner." Enough cannot be said about how physical the Redskins' secondary played compared to the Bills'. Led by safety Brad Edwards, the Redskins punished Bills receivers at every opportunity and played a game that bordered on constant pass interference. Cornerback Darrell Green described the Redskins' continual mixing of personnel and defensive schemes to "a pizza with olives and onions and green peppers and everything you can think of." In the end, though, the Redskins simply beat up on the Bills along both lines of scrimmage. Kick--returner Brian Mitchell summed it up this way, "They just weren't used to real football." DANCE TO THE MUSIC : Coach Joe Gibbs said he had no intention of passing so much, especially in the first half when Washington threw 21 times and rushed for 20 plays. But the Bills blitzed more than he expected, and when they did, Gibbs did not hesitate to put the ball in the air. The Bills' Thurman Thomas, the best back on the field, was never established as a running threat. He ran only 10 times and only 4 times in the second half. Buffalo threw a Super Bowl-record 59 passes and ran only 18 rushing plays. Thomas thought the Bills abandoned him too early and when they used him did so incorectly. "One reason we weren't that effective is because we were running right up the middle," Thomas said. "They had the middle completely jammed up and our offensive linemen weren't getting the chance to get on their blocks, sustain them and drive. I think now that we should have gone outside a little more and maybe that would have loosened things up." Charles Mann, the Redskins' defensive end, agreed: "Thurman Thomas is a great back. They just didn't use him. I was surprised they didn't run the football more and I think it might have been due to the fact that we scored some points early and they had to get away from it a little bit. I would have figured that he would have run the ball at least 30 times today."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Listen to Redskins running back Earnest Byner describe how Washington rushed for 125 yards when faced with the exact opposite adversity the Bills' running game encountered: "We thought it was going to be real tough trying to get outside on these guys, so what I wanted to try to do was start stretching it and then break it back in. Set it up like I was going outside, then break it back in to get 4 or 5 and maybe break it a little bit longer than that. We knew their guys were mobile and quick to the ball. It was something we wanted to establish." Advertisement With the Bills down by 17-0 at halftime, it figured that they would take the opening kickoff and establish Thomas on the ground right away, maybe lining him deep in the backfield, having him run toward the middle and then break outside. Instead, their first play of the half wound up as an interception of Kelly by linebacker Kurt Gouveia, setting up Gerald Riggs's 2-yard scoring run that gave Washington a 24-0 lead. Linebacker Andre Collins blitzed freely up the middle on the play and forced Kelly to rush his throw. "We didn't make any adjustments at halftime," Bills safety Mark Kelso said. "We just tried to play hard." Dumb move. Washington sure made adjustments. This is the way that Richie Petitbon, the Redskins' defensive coordinator, described Gouveia's interception, which was in part the brainchild of Larry Peccatiello, the linebackers coach. "We were riding over here on the bus," he said. "Larry Peccatiello came up with this blitz. He said, 'Do you think we can get this into the game plan?' I said, 'Yeah, we can get it in,' and he said, 'Well, let's wait until halftime,' because it's similar to something we'd practiced all week and we didn't want to confuse anybody. We put it in at halftime, called it the first play of the second half and it turns out to be the biggest play of the game. We sent Andre Collins up the middle and he normally doesn't blitz up the middle." Players win games. Coaches do, too. IT'S SUPER BOWL, NOT SUPER EGOS : Bet that Levy will have a long talk with Chuck Dickerson, the Bills' defensive line coach. First, the Bills began the week with Bruce Smith saying he might ask for a trade during the off season because of hate mail he had received in Buffalo. Then Thomas complained about a lack of respect from the news media. Then Dickerson capped the week by making jokes about the Redskins' offensive linemen. Gibbs grabbed a tape of Dickerson's hilarious performance and played it for his team the night before the game. Bills cornerback Nate Odomes described Buffalo as a team full of "deep personalities." That's putting it mildly. Jeff Bostic, the Redskins' center, said of the Bills' off-the-field talk and distractions: "It's very disturbing. Fortunately, the players on our team aren't constantly bickering between one another in the newspapers trying to decide who is going to be the m.v.p. in the game before it's even played. "They were talking about no respect. They had almost labeled who was going to be their m.v.p. Chuck Dickerson kind of gave us a great motivating speech. He made a lot of really embarrassing remarks coming from a coach. He had comments about each one of us individually. He said I was an ugly guy. He said Joe Jacoby was a Neanderthal, slobbers a lot, probably kicks dogs. He said Jim Lachey was a 310-pound ballerina, should wear a tutu under his uniform. I wonder if he likes us now?" We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 28, 1992, on Page B00008 of the National edition with the headline: ON PRO FOOTBALL; Worst-Case Scenario: Bills Lose 3 in a Row.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »