Advertisement By CLIFTON BROWN The Knicks spent yesterday's holiday having a productive day at work. Charles Oakley, with 14 points and 18 rebounds, played the entire 48 minutes and continued his drive toward a possible All-Star Game selection. Patrick Ewing (34 points, 14 rebounds) passed the 15,000-point mark with another eloquent performance. John Starks (27 points, 11 assists) provided the outside scoring threat that made Ewing's job easier. And Greg Anthony (11 points, 6 assists, 5 steals) let his play do the talking, one day after Pat Riley chastised Anthony for questioning the organization's faith in his abilities. For the Knicks, it added up to a 106-94 victory over the Minnesota Timberwolves in a Martin Luther King Jr. Day matinee at Madison Square Garden. In a scenario that has become typical, the Knicks built a comfortable lead of 20 points, watched it dwindle to 4, then regrouped during the final eight minutes to pull away to their fifth straight victory. Oakley didn't need to regroup, grabbing at least 10 rebounds for the 14th consecutive game. He devoured rebounds, snaring 10 on the offensive end. He dived out of bounds to make several key saves, and twice he crashed into the scorer's table to save loose balls. Asked if he had any fear of diving into tables, Oakley said: "I'm a stunt man. I don't worry about injuries. I just play -- all out. If it's 30 minutes, 40 minutes, I want to be out there." Advertisement Anthony wants to be on the floor, too, and he made that clear when he complained Saturday after sitting out the final 17 minutes 47 seconds against Detroit. The Knicks' acquisition of Derek Harper earlier this month has created a point-guard situation that could become delicate. Anthony Expresses Regret Advertisement After talking Sunday with Riley and Ernie Grunfeld, the general manager, Anthony responded with a solid performance, and Riley played Anthony for 31 minutes yesterday, including the final 4:26. Afterward, Anthony said he regretted Saturday's comments, in which he said among other things: "I've never been given a vote of confidence by any stretch of the imagination. I may not be here when the trade deadline comes. Who knows?" Asked about that displeasure, Anthony said: "It just didn't come across the proper way. I didn't mean for it to come across in that light. I have to be professional about it. When it's not going well collectively, what are you going to do, take Patrick out, take John out, take Oakley out? No. You're going to take out the positions that are interchangeable. It's not a direct reflection on any individual. That's why I really regretted that I said what I said. I know what the primary objective of this team is -- to win a world championship. I also know in order for us to accomplish that goal, it's going to be imperative for Derek to perform, because he's going to play significant minutes." Asked if he had a better understanding with the organization after talking to Riley and Grunfeld, Anthony said: "I think we have an understanding. I realize my role on the team, and it's an important one. I don't want to play anywhere else. It's nothing more than being competitive and wanting to play. You have to be man enough to say you made a mistake in what you said. I don't want to rock the boat in any way. " Riley was angered by Anthony's comments and insisted on Sunday that there would not be a point-guard controversy. But Riley refused to comment in detail about the situation after yesterday's game. Asked if he had fined or disciplined Anthony, Riley said: 'No. It's a dead issue." No Controversy for Harper  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Certainly, Riley hoped that it was. Meanwhile, Harper, who struggled yesterday (1-for-5 shooting, 7 points), said he would accept any role he was given. "I don't have anything to do with that," Harper said of Anthony's concerns. "It's petty. I'm just here to win. When you come from Dallas, the most important thing is to win. "It's an adjustment for me, coming off the bench. I have to stay ready, because you don't know when you're going to get that call. But I don't have a problem with it. I'm just happy to be in a winning situation. I'm not here to create waves. They might throw me back to Dallas, and I don't want that." Sparked by Anthony, Ewing, Oakley and Starks, the Knicks built a 58-38 lead by halftime. But Minnesota rallied in the third quarter, a comeback that was punctuated by Isaiah Rider, who soared high above the rim to block Ewing's dunk attempt just before the quarter ended. Advertisement Ewing, however, got the last laugh. He was named the National Basketball Association player of the week for the period ending last Sunday. And, in the second quarter, when Ewing became the 68th N.B.A. player to surpass the 15,000-point mark, the crowd gave him a standing ovation. "I didn't even know about it," Ewing said of the milestone. "I'm happy I got it. I guess it's not bad for a guy who couldn't score." Having won seven of eight games, the Knicks looked forward to continuing their momentum. "We played about as well as we've played in a long time in the first half," Riley said. "We were flat in the third quarter. We have to keep working on our game. But we made enough plays. That's what it's all about." REBOUNDS For the eighth consecutive season, the Knicks and Madison Square Garden made a $5,000 scholarship grant to the United Negro College Fund in the name of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. . . . ANTHONY MASON and CHUCK PERSON had a brief third-quarter encounter in which they grabbed each other in a headlock. Both were given technical fouls. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 18, 1994, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: BASKETBALL; Ewing Leads Knicks' Parade Of Big Numbers.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »