Advertisement By JOE LAPOINTE and  Tonight's Islander game had a familiar plot line: more benchings of regulars, more juggling of lines, another mid-game goalie switch, another injury, another defeat. This time, the Islanders fell to the Boston Bruins by 5-2 at Nassau Coliseum, their third consecutive defeat and their fifth in the last six games as their record plunged to 4-12-1. A crowd of 13,871 watched the Islanders' last appearance here for two weeks as they fell to last place in the Atlantic Division, behind Florida and Tampa Bay. Many fans booed at the buzzer and then filed out as the speaker system played Sinatra singing, "Each time I find myself flat on my face, I pick myself up and get back in the race." Two Periods Too Late After falling behind by 3-0, the Islanders dominated play for the last 30 minutes, cutting the lead to one goal, but they couldn't get the equalizer past Jon Casey. He stopped 20 of 22 shots as Boston extended its undefeated streak to five consecutive games. The Islanders have no victories and two ties against the Bruins in their last six meetings. Advertisement Boston's David Shaw scored the clincher with 3 minutes 30 seconds left in the game with a shot from the blue line that was deflected into the net, making it 4-2. Steve Leach added an empty-net goal with 18 seconds remaining. Advertisement Rich Pilon, one of the Islanders' better defensemen this season, left the game in the third period with a bruised left shoulder. He said he would probably miss "a couple of days." Elsewhere on the defense, where Uwe Krupp remains out with an injury, the Islanders didn't dress two members of their heralded trio of sophomore rearguards. Darius Kasparaitis and Scott Lachance were scratched. Kasparaitis, who sparked the team last season with heavy body-checking, is a minus-12 in the plus-minus rating, the worst on the team. He has no goals and no assists and only recently began making hard hits after coming to camp 15 pounds overweight. "Kaspar's got to take a step back and assess his play and his work habits," Arbour said. "I work hard every practice," Kasparaitis said. "Maybe Al thinks I go out every night."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Kasparaitis, who was married on Friday, has been in the news for matters off the ice. A drunken-driving charge against him is pending. For Lachance, it was the second benching that was intended as a message in five games. A first-round draft choice who joined the team after the 1992 Olympics, Lachance has no goals and two assists and hasn't developed as a shooter, checker or playmaker. The Bruins played without two injured stars, Cam Neely and Joe Juneau. Goalie Tom Draper got his second consecutive start in the Islanders' net, the first time that has happened this season. He lasted almost to the midway point before being replaced by Ron Hextall. Draper gave up three goals on 14 shots. Not All His Fault It was hard to blame him on the first two. Both were scored from close range on rebounds during power plays before the game was three minutes old. Adam Oates got the first at 1:23; Ted Donato got the second, at 2:21, after Glen Wesley's shot caromed off Dennis Vaske, an Islander defenseman. The Bruins didn't get a second-period shot until 8:31, but the long slap shot by Don Sweeney got past Draper. The change of goalies seemed to change the Islanders' luck. After David Volek was stopped by Casey, a Bruins clearing pass hit a skate and bounced back to Volek, who shoved a semi-shot over the line at 10:52 to cut the Boston lead to 3-1. Steve Thomas, who moved from the first to the second line in the second, made it 3-2 at 17:10. His long wrist shot beat Casey after a rush up ice that began with passes from Vladimir Malakhov and Ray Ferraro. Volek replaced Thomas at right wing on the first line alongside Pierre Turgeon and Derek King. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 14, 1993, on Page 8008011 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; That Thud Was the Islanders in the Cellar.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »