Advertisement By IRA BERKOW and  On a Saturday in June 1977, Martinez Jackson, a tailor in Wyncote, Pa., just outside of Philadelphia, received a phone call from his son, Reggie, in Boston, and it was clear that his son was terribly upset. Martinez Jackson had raised Reggie pretty much alone, after he and his wife had divorced when the boy was 6. He raised him on Greenwood Avenue in Wyncote, the block where all the blacks in town lived. At the time of the call, Reggie Jackson was 31, an outfielder with the New York Yankees, and it came after a game against the Red Sox. Reggie had always said that his father is the most important influence in his life and he talked often to his father, at that point in 1977, over the 10 years of his major league baseball career. Most times, the calls were pleasant, even thrilling. "I just popped two today, Dad," Reggie might say. "Oh, you did?" his father might reply. "That's great! Just great!" But as Reggie Jackson remembered that call in June 1977, there was a different feeling. That afternoon he had had another clash with his manager, Billy Martin, in the dugout after Martin accused Jackson of loafing after a ball in right field, and Jackson denied it. They almost came to blows. What Dad Believed "I'm having trouble with the manager, Dad," said Reggie. He told him how Martin had got into his face and how Reggie said don't get too close, you're only 150 pounds and you're 50 years old and that, said Reggie, is when he "went off." Other players had to pull them apart. Advertisement "Forget the manager," Martinez Jackson told Reggie. "Remember, son, you're still a colored boy. And the man in the office is payin' you good money. Just go back and hit the ball over the wall." Advertisement By "just a colored boy," Martinez Jackson, the tailor, meant that Jackson should not consider himself, as Reggie interpreted it, "a big shot." "You got to appreciate what you got," said his father. "You're making $600,000 a year. You're putting food on the table, you got money in your pocket, you've been given a chance to be somebody. Go with dignity. Just do your job." This afternoon, Reginald Martinez Jackson, who went back and hit the ball over the wall, the way his father had suggested, will be inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, N.Y. Martinez Jackson, age 90, will be in attendance, an honored guest of the inductee. Jackson's father, an old Negro League player who never got a chance at the big leagues because of segregation, wasn't telling him, as Jackson heard it, to shuffle for the Man. And Reggie Jackson never did that. He took pride in having attended college -- Arizona State, where he remains 16 credits short of a degree in biology -- and took pride in being a new generation of black American, one not afraid to speak his mind, regardless of consequences. Reggie Jackson hit 563 balls over the wall in his 21-year major league career, sixth on the career list; only Hank Aaron, Babe Ruth, Willie Mays, Frank Robinson and Harmon Killebrew had hit more. And Jackson did it with as much style and drama as anyone who has ever played. No one has ever moved about a ball field with as much obvious delight or seeming need to be in the spotlight, to virtually lasso it if necessary. It appeared that Reggie Jackson, 6 feet tall, 215 pounds and broadchested as a rooster, his eyes behind dark glasses and a roll to his stride, luxuriated as the chants of "Reg-gie!" "Reg-gie!" washed over him. He was called Mr. October for his exploits in the World Series, where his lifetime batting average in 27 games in five Series is .357, nearly 100 points higher than his regular-season lifetime average. His Series slugging average of .755 is the best ever. And he hit 10 homers in the Series, at a rate of about once every 10 at-bats, the second-best percentage ever. In one of the most stirring nights in baseball history, Jackson, against the Dodgers in Yankee Stadium on Oct. 18, 1977, ripped three straight homers, each one on the first pitch, and when he ran past first baseman Steve Garvey on the last one, Garvey, he later told Jackson, applauded into his glove. Loves His Nickname "Mr. October," he said recently, drawing out the name. "It's the best, better than Say Hey Kid or the Mick. The Yankee Clipper -- what's that? I'm not talking about them as ballplayers -- they were great -- but this is nicknames. You know which one I liked a lot? The Galloping Ghost -- Red Grange. You can just picture that. Like you can Mr. October." It was said by an Oakland teammate, pitcher Darold Knowles, "There isn't enough mustard in the world to cover Reggie Jackson," hot dog supreme. And of course Reggie himself made that never-to-be-forgotten reference to being "the straw that stirred the drink" for the Yankees, and rhapsodized about the "magnitude of me." Bottom Line: He Produced Advertisement He preened, he could be overbearing, he hyperbolized in word and deed, and he seemed at times not to have an unaffected bone in his body. He might casually break appointments, but, above all, for a ballplayer, he produced, and produced often when it was desperately needed. And in the end you wondered whether the shimmering ego was, in amateur psychology, just a coverup for a basic insecurity that perhaps none of us, maybe not even the subject himself, might understand, or acknowledge. From here, it looks like a combination of talent and the inner demons driving him to succeed. "We won 11 division titles, 6 American League pennants, were in 5 World Series and won 3 of them," said Jackson. "And I hit in the big slot in all of those. "I can't say I relished those moments under pressure -- at least, not at the moment -- but I succeeded in them. I rose to the occasion. I knew what to do, how to control it. I mean, Michael Jordan doesn't want to have to score 20 points in the last quarter to win. It is nerve-racking. But you have to adjust to the clutch, do what you have to do -- that's what they're paying you for. And the first thing is to make sure you're mind wasn't cluttered." This was said one day last week as Jackson sat at the kitchen table of his handsome, secluded five-bedroom house on a hill here. From the picture window, one could see out past the tall Monterey pine trees to, down below, the edge of town and then out to the spectacular ocean sparkling in the afternoon sun. But Jackson, now 47, still looked powerful in T-shirt -- he works out in a gym for two hours, five days a week -- blue jeans and hiking boots. A sprig of gray hair curled up from under a felt Yankee cap, which covered a retreating hairline and shadowed the salting of gray in his dark mustache. Just You and the Ball And slowly he began to transport himself, to a ball field, with 60,000 people waiting eagerly to see what he would do next. "Yeah, you gotta get everything out of your mind except that ball the pitcher's got in his hand, and you're thinking of getting the barrel of the bat in the pay zone -- on time!" he said. He raised his right arm and extended it, with the five fingers at the end representing the enemy, the opposing pitcher. His left fist at his side was a proxy of him at the plate, grasping his black bat: "Get yourself together, you tell yourself. You got the pine tar on your hands. You mash down your helmet. You fix your glasses. You shift your body so your shirt's fitting right, not hugging you. You plant your feet in the dirt, and make sure there's no stones. Your hitting gloves are on right. There can be no excuses, like some guys. 'Oh, something got in my eye.' Or, 'My gloves slipped.' C'mon, man, you didn't do it -- that's all! Ah, but now he's gotta throw. Now I'm in charge. He gotta be out there with it." Now Jackson is talking swifter, dropping verbs like a street kid in the 'hood. "He right there! He right there! Close your eyes and listen and you know who's up. Pow!" Jackson smacked his left fist into his right hand. "That's how I felt up there." Of course, it wasn't all glory. Jackson holds the record for most strikeouts in a major league career, 2,597 -- far outdistancing the second-place man, Willie Stargell, who had only 1,936. "I remember I went by Babe Ruth, breezin,' " said Jackson, about Ruth's 1,330, which was the record once upon a time. "And then I went by Mickey Mantle, who once held the record." It was at 1,710. "Mickey told me, 'Reggie, when you passed me it was one of the happiest days of my life.' "  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. He shrugged. "Yeah, I have lapped a few guys," he said, with a little smile. "Sure, it's a little bit embarrassing owning the all-time strikeout record, but not a lot. Remember, in order for you to strike out that much, they have to have confidence to put you in the lineup." You Can Look It Up Advertisement Striking out was only one of the darts thrown at Jackson. Some said he was a detriment as a fielder, and that his arm was strong but erratic. "The putdowns about my fielding began with Martin, he was the one who began saying it and others picked up," said Jackson. "I thought of myself as a complete player, an intelligent player, who knew how to run the bases and hit the cutoff man. "But I don't want to have to defend myself as a ballplayer," he said. "All I have to do now is throw them the book and say, 'Look it up: Reggie Jackson, Hall of Famer.' "You make the Baseball Hall of Fame, it's different from anything else in sports. You become a national resource." Perhaps he meant national treasure, but resource might be right, that you can still take sustenance from the magnitude of Reggie, still feel you can count on him when you need him in the bottom of the ninth. After retiring from baseball, going back to Oakland in 1987 as a kind of encore, for he had begun his career with the A's in 1967, he now has two jobs -- or two titles, to be sure. He is "adviser to the president" of the Upper Deck Company, a firm that makes baseball cards and is the sponsor of old-timers games. And Jackson is the "special adviser to the managing general partner and principal owner of the Yankees," one George Steinbrenner. Not Much Travel When the appointment with the Yankees was made in the spring, Jackson said he would help evaluate talent. How would he do that? Oh, he said, he'd check out statistics and look over guidebooks. When it was asked whether he'd look over talent first-hand, he said, well, sure. "I get to New York maybe one week a month, and talk with Gene Michael," said Jackson, referring to the Yankee general manager. "But I'm checking out the young guys in the minor league system." How often does he make trips? "Not as often as I'd like." How often has he been to their minor league teams so far? "Well, once, to Columbus for three days." Jackson seems as interested in his antique automobile collection as he is anything else. He has 94 cars, including a plum 1955 Chevrolet Bel Air in mint condition with license plates "R M JAX 44" -- 44 being his Yankee number -- that he was driving swiftly through Carmel traffic, the exhaust pipes gunning, the '50s music station loud and him bouncing to the beat of "Great Balls of Fire" with his baseball cap turned catcher-style. He keeps most of his cars covered in plastic in a warehouse in Carmel. He says his collection might be worth $6 million. He lives alone, having married once, in his rookie season, and then was soon divorced. He does have one child, a 2 1/2-year old daughter, Kimberley, who lives with her mother in southern California and whose picture is on a shelf in his bedroom. Advertisement Jackson seems to have handled the millions he made from baseball with care. He once said that he could always talk with George Steinbrenner because Steinbrenner was a businessman, like him, but he could never really talk with Billy Martin. "Martin," said Jackson, "was just a baseball manager." Steinbrenner, meanwhile, courted Jackson in 1977 to play for the Yankees, let him go as a free agent in 1981 -- "the biggest mistake I ever made," Steinbrenner has said. About the controversy over whether Steinbrenner should move from Yankee Stadium, Jackson said, "Why not? It's an economic decision." It sounded like he was shilling for the Boss. After all, Willie Randolph, Jackson's former teammate with the Yankees, and now a working assistant general manager for them, said moving Yankee Stadium from the Bronx would be a terrible thing, given the history of the Stadium. "Willie's from New York," said Jackson. "It means more to him in that regard." At Old-Timers Day at Yankee Stadium, Jackson remembers talking with Randolph and saying, "You must feel great to have the job you do now, where people look up to you -- a black man making it on the administrative level." And Randolph told Jackson that that was right. Race the Key Factor Jackson indeed sees himself on that level, although surely going at his own pace. Like the baseball world, it seems, the business world comes to Reggie Jackson, not the other way around. If his role appears more public relations than hard-core, hands-on, full-time business, well, it's a trade-off, his name and image for his title. Jackson takes pride in his image and his language, having worked at speaking "with eloquence and style," as his father had advised him from his youth. "In the end, race remains the most important factor in my life," Jackson said. "The sensitivity to it. When I was younger, a kid in Wyncote, I just took it for granted that I was a second-class citizen. You were made to feel that way. But when I got older, I got mad about about it, but couldn't always say something. Like there were cliques on the Yankees, and they loved it when people said things about me that they couldn't say themselves, or wouldn't say to my face. That I was self-centered or had a massive ego. "And I felt I was misunderstood about that straw stirring the drink remark. I mean, I came to the Yankees after they'd just lost the Series in four straight to Cincinnati. And I said they had great players like Munson and Guidry and Piniella and Chambliss, but I said I was the last ingredient that could win the championship. The straw that stirs the drink. When it was printed, everyone went nuts." But the fact is, the Yankees won the championship the next two seasons. "Then I remember the time on the team bus when Mickey Rivers and I were needling each other and I told him I had a high I.Q. and he said, 'Reggie, you can't even spell I.Q.' And it was funny, but I hated that it was another black man who was saying it in front of some of those other guys. They got a big laugh out of it. I laughed, too. Ha. Ha. But I knew why they were laughing." On balance, though, Reggie Jackson's memories are sweet. He reached the pinnacle of his profession with a star quality shared by few others and has a plaque in the Hall of Fame to prove it. If he was too absorbed in Reggie Jackson for some tastes, it wasn't too much for his. And still isn't. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 1, 1993, on Page 8008001 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Mr. October Is Now A Man For All Seasons.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »