Advertisement BY JOE SEXTON The numbers are digested daily by both the Yankees and the Mets. To the Yankees, Tony Fernandez's offensive assault for the Blue Jays could be killing their title hopes. When the Mets read the box scores -- Fernandez drove in five runs in a 9-5 victory over the Tigers on Tuesday night -- a fury and disgust of a different sort apparently sets in. Manager Dallas Green, whose angry exasperation with Fernandez was the final impetus to the club's trading the shortstop in June, openly accuses Fernandez of having intentionally played less than 100 percent for the Mets. The charge is serious and blunt, but Green makes it without much equivocation. "I have no regrets at all about trading the guy," Green said. "I'm more than upset that a guy would do something like he's done. Don't tell me something ain't wrong about what's taken place." Advertisement What took place was that Fernandez, bothered by kidney stones and other physical ailments, hit only .225 for the Mets. His struggles -- Fernandez said the Mets had traded him before they saw the full and real player -- were one of the most profound disappointments of the season for the Mets. Advertisement The shortstop had been acquired in a steal of a deal and his career achievements led the Mets to believe they had gained one of the premier two-way shortstops of the last 25 years.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In his first game with the Blue Jays, Fernandez tripled and has been on a consistent tear since. His average after Tuesday night was .296. He has won games for the Blue Jays and has driven in 47 runs in less than three months of effort. "Things come back to get players who do things like that," Green said. The manager also defended his handling of the situation and his pressuring the club to deal Fernandez. "I did everything I could for the man," Green said. "I knew he was hurt, that he was lonely, unhappy. I tried to talk to him every day, to put my arm around him. I did everything. Well, not everything. I didn't get him to play for me." Attempts to reach Fernandez by telephone yesterday were unsuccessful. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 16, 1993, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; There's a Blue Jay Who Looms Over New York.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »