Advertisement By MIKE FREEMAN and  As a way of showing his offensive line how much he appreciated the huge holes they opened for him against the Buccaneers, Giants running back Rodney Hampton said he would give each of them $1,000. Merry Christmas, a little early. And because of his new contract that contains some healthy bonuses, he can afford it. Hampton is already wealthy because of his new three-year, $6.9 million contract, which makes him the third highest paid running back in the league, behind Buffalo's Thurman Thomas and Phoenix's Garrison Hearst. But because of several clauses that could easily be reached if he continues at his current pace, Hampton could become even richer. First, Hampton could receive a $50,000 "playing time" bonus for the first year of his contract. That means Hampton simply has to be in just 50 percent of the total offensive plays (excluding special teams) to earn it. To get this bonus -- given to Hampton basically as a gift from the Giants -- Hampton more or less just has to show up at games. While Hampton doesn't get specific bonuses if he gains over 1,000 yards -- many teams are doing away with those because they count against the impending salary cap -- he does have the potential for others. If he makes the Pro Bowl, Hampton gets about $50,000. If he's all-conference, it's about $60,000. And if he is All-N.F.L., then he could make $75,000. Advertisement At his current pace -- he has rushed for 210 yards in 51 carries -- Hampton has a shot at getting all of the bonuses.  Bahr Gets a Shot Former Giants kicker Matt Bahr is getting another shot, this time with the Dallas Cowboys. Bahr is one of eight kickers the Cowboys will try out on Tuesday, the Cowboys' owner, Jerry Jones, confirmed Monday night, in what some are calling the Dallas Kickathon.  Bahr apparently has a good shot at making the team and replacing Lin Elliott, who missed two field goals on Sunday after missing an extra point in the team's opener. Advertisement Bahr, one of the most accurate kickers in National Football League history, was cut by the Giants after three seasons with the team. It was a tough cut, but Bahr's age (37) and the fact he couldn't kick deep on kickoffs worked against him. The Giants have since brought in kickers David Treadwell to kick field goals (he is 7 of 7) and Brad Daluiso to kick off (and he has rarely had a short kickoff). We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 14, 1993, on Page B00014 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL: GIANTS NOTEBOOK; Hampton Gives the Line A Truly Grand Reward.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »