Advertisement By JOE SEXTON Feelings may still need to be mended, but the Mets and Dave Magadan yesterday did manage to end one significant difference of opinion when they agreed on a one-year contract for a figure that fell midway between their salary arbitration filings of last week. Magadan, who was the Mets' first baseman for the last several seasons but lost his regular job to Eddie Murray during the off season, signed a deal for $1,393,750. That represents a slight raise from his $1.25 million salary of last season. "Obviously, I'd be a lot happier with more money," said Magadan, who had asked for $1.6 million. "But I realize I had an off year, that I didn't have too many stats to throw on the table." Still Stinging From First Offer Magadan nonetheless indicated he was still stinging slightly from the insult the Mets had thrown in his direction with their arbitration filing of $1,187,500, a figure that represented a cut in salary and a statement of one sort or another. Magadan said last week he would not have had surgery on both shoulders near the end of the 1991 season if he had known a possible cut in salary was at stake. Advertisement "They were positioning themselves for the negotiating process, I suppose," said Magadan, whose average fell from .328 in 1990 to .258 before surgery last season. "But I wasn't happy." Advertisement Magadan, meanwhile, said he was for the moment resigned to engaging in yet one more spring training fight for a full-time job. Magadan, who has served previously discouraging apprenticeships as a third baseman and then as a first baseman in his years with the Mets, said he had been assured that he'd have a fair shot along with Bill Pecota and Chris Donnels at third base for 1992.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "I've always heard that the manager is an honest guy," Magadan said of Jeff Torborg. "People said last year that maybe I didn't have the fire because for the first time in my career I had a major league job in my lap. Maybe there's truth to that." Magadan said there had been no discussion of a multiyear deal with the Mets, and that he was looking forward to exploring free agency at the end of the 1992 season. Magadan, though, did say he would look forward to it with a greater enthusiasm if he had a regular job. Looking for 'Big Numbers' "I'd much rather be in the position I was in last year," said Magadan. "You want to be in a situation where you can put up big numbers." General Manager Al Harazin and the agent for David Cone spoke again yesterday, with Cone's agent effectively rejecting the club's formal proposal of last week on a long-term deal for the right-hander. "There are still a number of issues to be resolved, money being the most prominent among them," said Harazin, who said he would speak again with Cone's agent before the end of the week. "I'm trying to understand what the bottom line is for them." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 21, 1992, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Mets and Magadan Meet Halfway.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »