Advertisement By GERALD ESKENAZI With the Hudson River as a backdrop and chants of "Meh-ee-co" as a rhythm section, Julio Cesar Chavez pounded four sparring partners for 40 minutes yesterday, seemingly unaffected by the bright sun and clearly energized by adoring fans. Chavez, the Mexican fighter who has won five titles and is the World Boxing Council junior-welterweight champion, was as comfortable in front of a microphone as he was doing battle in grueling four-minute rounds. For these are not only the final days of training for his Sept. 10 attempt at a sixth title, when he faces W.B.C. welterweight champion Pernell Whitaker, in San Antonio. This is also the era when a fighter must connect with the pay-per-view audience. And New York has one of America's largest audiences. An Audience for Pay-Per-View Hispanic fight fans have delighted, and astounded, promoters with their fervent acceptance of pay-per-view boxing for fighters such as Chavez. Television industry executives say as many as 25 percent of Hispanic households that have pay-per-view will watch a major fight that features an Hispanic boxer. In non-Hispanic households, a figure of 7 or 8 percent is considered excellent. The Sept. 10 card at the Alamodome, which includes three world title fights, is being marketed at a suggested pay-per-view price of $40. Advertisement About 500 Chavez supporters, many of them Hispanic fight fans, showed up yesterday to cheer on Chavez in his appearance at Riverbank State Park at Riverside Drive and West 145th Street. Advertisement And Chavez gave the crowd a show, boxing 10 four-minute rounds. He would bob constantly in his pink-and-purple tights and suddenly, and crisply, smash lefts and rights, most of them on target. He worked hard from the beginning to the end of each round, and his only flaw seemed to be a tendency to get hit with left hooks. Almost an Icon "I come from 83d and Columbus to see him," said a man in his 30's named Juan. "I was born in the States, but my family is Mexican. To us, Chavez is one of us." Indeed, little Mexican flags sprouted in the crowd, which watched the workout from behind barricades. Many held up photographs of Chavez, as if he were an icon. And why not? Chavez began boxing in 1980. His record is 87-0, with 75 knockouts, and no fighter in boxing history has had a perfect career record for as many fights as he has. "This is for the gringos," he said in English, bringing laughs to the crowd after the workout. He plugged his pay-per-view fight. Then he lapsed into Spanish. "He was learning English and doing really well," said his longtime interpreter, Gladys Rosa. But about a year ago, Chavez was in an elevator of a hotel in Las Vegas, Nev., talking to Rosa. He spoke English, and pronounced "very good" as "berry good."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Two men in the elevator laughed at him, Rosa said. "He doesn't like to speak in English since then," she said. A Promise of Victory He is the latest of a proud line of fighters who have been called "pound for pound, the best in the world." "I don't like to hear that," he said in Spanish. "I'm a modest man. I don't have a big mouth like Whitaker." Advertisement The 31-year-old Chavez hardly needed to catch his breath when his workout was over and he began talking to interviewers and signing autographs. He trains eight or 10 rounds of 4 minutes six days a week. He runs four miles a day; he does interval training of quarter-mile sprints. His endurance is legendary. "I will be ready to fight Whitaker from bell to bell," he explained of his stepped-up training. "I will force him all over the ring. And then after I beat him, Don King will get in the ring against Duva." King Takes His Shot King, promoting the fight that he claims will attract 75,000 fans to the Alamodome, has had his legal and professional run-ins over the years with trainer and manager Lou Duva, and his son Dan, who is a boxing promoter. Which Duva will King tackle? King, wearing a lime-green shirt and shorts yesterday, said, "Either one. The fans can stay for both fights." Then Chavez, who is here with an entourage of 14, including sparring partners, went downtown to the St. Moritz in his stretch limo. He will make another appearance before the press in New York, then continue training in selected cities across the United States, wherever pay-per-view (and Hispanic fight fans) are situated. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 23, 1993, on Page C00002 of the National edition with the headline: BOXING; Chavez Holds Glove-Fest for Fans.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »