Advertisement  After a sparkling first half tonight at Giants Stadium, Rutgers crashed to earth. And hard. But in the most improbable of comebacks, reserve quarterback Bryan Fortay brought the Scarlet Knights back, rallying them to 17 points in just over 9 minutes. And when John Benestad's 38-yard field goal with 1 minute 1 second left in the game split the uprights and Duke's Tom Cochran missed for the third time wide left -- this one from 43 yards with 4 seconds remaining -- the Scarlet Knights had a wild 39-38 victory over the Blue Devils. "You guys probably think I'm nuts, but I really deep down thought we were going to win the game there in the fourth quarter," said Doug Graber, the Rutgers coach. "This was like our first game, really. I'm just thrilled to have so many things go wrong in one night and still have a chance to go 2-0." In its first real test of the young season, Rutgers, which trounced Division I-AA Colgate by 68-6 last weekend, self-destructed offensively to open the second half. And for a time it appeared as if the Scarlet Knights were going to hand Duke the game in front of 26,854 on a crisp evening. Third-Quarter Problems It wasn't that the Blue Devils (0-2) were so dominating, although the junior quarterback Spence Fischer, who threw for 333 yards and two scores, was impressive. It was more that Rutgers fell apart at the beginning of the third quarter, fumbling twice, being intercepted three times and botching a punt -- all of which led to 21 unanswered points and a 38-22 Duke lead early in the final quarter. Advertisement By that time, Bruce Presley, who rushed for a career-high 149 yards on 25 carries, was out of the game with a concussion and quarterback Ray Lucas was about to be lifted after completing 2 of his 6 second-half passes to his own teammates and 3 to members of Duke's secondary. Advertisement Enter Fortay to loud cheers, with 10:13 to play, to be exact. "I looked at the guys in the huddle and said I think we can do this," said the 6-foot-3-inch, 210-pound senior, who lost his starting job to Lucas during camp. "I just went in and told them we're going to win, just give me time." On Fortay's third snap from center, Presley's replacement, Terrell Willis, ran 47 yards to the Blue Devil 1 and then scored two plays later. Fortay somehow got a bullet past the cornerback Sidney Wells and hit tight end Marco Battaglia for the conversion and Rutgers was down by 8 points, 38-30, with 8:20 to go. Less than a minute later, Duke fumbled at its own 31 and Rutgers was knocking at the door again. After an illegal procedure penalty on the first play from scrimmage moved the Scarlet Knights back 5 yards, Fortay hit a wide-open Chris Brantley with a picture-perfect toss in the middle of the end zone and Rutgers was within 2. Brantley's three touchdowns tonight made him the career touchdown reception leader at the school. This Time, Defense Shines  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Fortay was stopped just shy of the end zone after being chased out of the pocket on the attempt to tie the score, and the Scarlet Knights needed their defense to come up big. They did, holding on downs at their 28 with 3:45 remaining when Duke Coach Barry Wilson elected to go on fourth and 5 rather than give Cochran, who had earlier missed from 51 and 29 yards as well as on an extra point, another shot. Fortay, who was 3 for 4 for 66 yards, played brilliantly in his short stint and led the Scarlet Knights on one final drive. On the third play, he dumped off to Willis at the Rutgers 44 after nearly being sacked, and the redshirt freshman took off, breaking five tackles en route to the Duke 32. Willis ran for 10 more and another first down on the next play, and the Scarlet Knights were within Benestad's range. "It was my first attempt this season," said the senior place-kicker who before had never won a game with a field goal. "I was not really nervous at all. All I was worried about was the hold and the snap. When I hit it, I saw it was right down the middle and I said, 'That's it, it's over.' " Well, not quite. Fischer moved the Blue Devils back into contention, setting up the final kick. Cochran, a junior who is known for the strength of his leg but not for his accuracy, just misssed. 'Good for the Program' Like it or not, Graber has a quarterback controversy on his hands. Fortay, relegated to holding on placements -- and the center of controversy for having filed a lawsuit against his former school, the University of Miami -- said he did not feel vindicated in his role of being a reserve. "The win was good for the program, but I want to do more," said Fortay, who sat out 1991 after transferring from Miami and then set the Rutgers single season mark for scoring passes last year. "I've said all year that I'm a better quarterback than last year. I'm not satisfied with this I want to play." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 12, 1993, on Page 8008002 of the National edition with the headline: COLLEGE FOOTBALL; Fortay Rallies Rutgers.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »