Advertisement By JOE SEXTON The lines of communication within the organization haven't always been reliable or clear recently. And so perhaps Sid Fernandez, wanting to make his intent and his talent clear, will make a fax of his pitching line from last night and send it himself to General Manager Joe McIlvaine in California. The line read: 8 innings, 3 hits, 2 runs, 9 strikeouts. It was good enough for a 3-2 triumph over the Rockies. It ought to be good enough to force the Mets to agonize a bit more about what they want to do regarding their future contractual relationship with the left-hander. "Oh, I think Joe Mac saw it on television," said Fernandez, saying he'd decline the idea of a fax. His saga is one of the more innocent and encouraging tales to unfold for the Mets in 1993. Unlike some Mets, Fernandez wants to stay in New York. And the Mets, regardless of their feelings toward others on their roster, are increasingly eager to keep him. Fernandez, who can be a free agent after the season, isn't asking for the moon. The Mets look more and more like they can't help but ask him to re-sign. "Nothing, though, can get done until someone makes an offer," said Fernandez. Fernandez said he thought the Mets and his agent might meet again in Chicago late next week. A deal could get done. If it does, it can't help but be a slightly better deal for Fernandez after last night. Advertisement "The best fastball he's had since I've been here," Manager Dallas Green said. "He busted it. They didn't hit it."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Not that the game was a cakewalk. Fernandez allowed a homer to Andres Galarraga in the fourth as the Mets fell behind, 1-0. Ryan Thompson, whose at-bats vary wildly from the explosive to the overmatched, hit a three-run shot off Kent Bottenfield in the bottom of the inning to give the Mets a 3-1 lead. And then Fernandez and Green and the entire dugout struggled through some more late-inning vaudeville. Advertisement After a Chris Jones double in the eighth, the Rockies got within 3-2 when Bobby Bonilla backed up on a Roberto Mejia grounder to third base and threw late to first. An instant later, Jones was safe at the plate, having scored during Bonilla's long throw to first and Eddie Murray's high fling home. In the Mets' eighth, Bonilla left first base with one out and was doubled up easily on a fly to left while racing around the bases believing there were already two outs. "Vapor locked," said Green. "Whatever that is." INSIDE PITCH DWIGHT GOODEN was suspended yesterday for five games by National League President BILL WHITE for his ejection from last Monday night's game against the Reds. Gooden was ejected by the umpire GARY DARLING for throwing at BRIAN KOELLING of the Reds. Gooden appealed the suspension and a hearing will be held at a future date. "I don't think I deserve it," said Gooden, who was ejected for only the second time in his career. "I don't agree with it. It's the principle of the thing." Gooden, who will probably miss just one start, pointed out that NOLAN RYAN hit Chicago's ROBIN VENTURA and then punched him recently and was not suspended. Gooden insisted again that he did not throw purposely at Koelling, saying that if he wanted to hit anyone in retaliation for TIM PUGH's earlier plunking of CHARLIE O'BRIEN, he would have hit Pugh. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 28, 1993, on Page 1001029 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Fernandez Delivers His Sign-Me Pitch.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »