Advertisement By JACK CURRY Don Mattingly was being hopeful and truthful when he said Sunday that the Yankees needed an 11-game winning streak. The Yankees have 11 games left in a season in which their longest winning streak has been six games. But Mattingly boldly talked about them galloping into October without losing again. He was being very hopeful. Can it happen? It is very, very unlikely. With a suspect rotation, ragged relievers, a hole in the middle of their lineup and an annoying slump at the most inopportune time, the Yankees might not win half their remaining games. The Bronx has unexpectedly been one of the stages for this wacky American League East race, but New York's splendid chase has stalled and the division title is about to become Toronto's again. Although the Yankees still have three games against the first-place Blue Jays starting Friday in Toronto, any hope might be false hope. Entering their contest with the Red Sox at the Skydome tonight, the Blue Jays have a four-game lead over the Yankees with 13 games left. If the sizzling Jays merely go 7-6, the Yankees would have to win 10 of 11 games just to tie for first. No Negative Thinking Allowed The Yankees have not gone 10-1 in any 11-game period this season. And this 10-1 would almost certainly have to include a sweep of Toronto next weekend. The daunting numbers were mentioned to Mattingly, but he ignored them. Advertisement "It's a thought that only negative people would come up with," he said. "If we win, it'll be enough." Then Mattingly, apparently construing a realistic question as being negative, chuckled and added: "New York City. Skyscrapers and everything." Advertisement Skyscrapers, everything and even an interesting pennant race until the Yankees fizzled. The Yankees went 4-4 while the Blue Jays won 8 straight games to widen their lead. The Yankees have lost 8 of their last 13, and 10 of 18 in September. In the month when they needed to make a move and possibly snatch first place from the vulnerable Blue Jays, nothing has worked for them. Now the Blue Jays look formidable, not vulnerable, with five fewer losses than New York and a five-game lead over the Orioles. With two games against Minnesota beginning tonight at Yankee Stadium, the Yankees cling to mathematics. The team that botched chances to move into sole possesion of first place three straight nights in Arlington, Tex., two weeks ago must believe there is hope. "Do we come in here Tuesday and say we're out of it?," Mike Gallego asked. "I don't think anyone will do that. I think we'll come in here trying to win."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. What has gone wrong for the Yankees? It really should be, what has not gone wrong? Start with their starters. During September, they are 3-7 with eight no-decisions and have surrendered 52 runs and 108 hits in 97 1/3 innings for a 4.81 earned run average. In their last 14 games, the Yankees have received one victory from a starter, when Jimmy Key defeated the last-place Brewers, 3-1, on Sept. 13. One victory in two weeks? It is amazing the Yankees are only four games out. Want more revealing numbers? Eliminate Key's four decent starts and Jim Abbott's no-hitter over the Indians and the starters have an 0-7 record with a 6.53 e.r.a. in the last 13 games. Manager Buck Showalter has often spoken about starters giving the Yankees a chance to win, but even that standard remark has been absent lately. Bullpen Awful, Too Of course, the relievers have also struggled with a 5.03 e.r.a. this month. For every time Paul Gibson surprised with a victory, Steve Farr, Steve Howe, Paul Assenmacher or Bob Wickman floundered. The all-time saves leader, Lee Smith, has handled two save situations since joining the club on Aug. 31, so the commendable deal that brought him from St. Louis has had minimal impact. If General Manager Gene Michael had acquired a starter instead -- well, that is another issue. There is also trouble in the lineup. After helping to keep the overachieving Yankees in the division race, both Mattingly and Danny Tartabull have experienced a trying month. Sure, there is still time for Tartabull to corral his 100th run batted in and for Mattingly to hike his average over .300, but the Yankees' third and fourth hitters have faltered in critical situations. Over all, Tartabull is batting .217 with 2 homers and 12 r.b.i. in September while Mattingly has hit .243 with 6 r.b.i. It is one of many reasons why Mattingly has to idealistically discuss an 11-game winning streak. "They're all pressure games," Mattingly said. "There's pressure to win every day. I guess the games get bigger and bigger." INSIDE PITCH The American League has received Boston's protest of Saturday's game and a ruling is expected today or tomorrow. The Red Sox protested New York's 4-3 victory on grounds that the Yankees should have controlled their fans. A 15-year-old fan charged onto the field in the ninth inning and disrupted play, nullifying the final out and giving the Yankees a chance to rally from a 3-1 deficit. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 21, 1993, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Ya Gotta Believe, 1993: Can Yanks Win 11 of 11?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »