Advertisement By DAVE ANDERSON AS soon as Rodney Hampton arrived in the Giants' locker room after yesterday's 20-10 victory over the Los Angeles Rams, the 24-year-old running back learned that he had carried the ball 41 times. "I jumped in an ice bucket," he was saying now. "You put your legs in the ice?" somebody said. "My whole body," he said, smiling. "I feel good now, but I'll feel it when I wake up in the morning." "Where?" he was asked. "All over," he said. On the sideline at a National Football League game, the sound of the collision between a running back and his tacklers isn't that much different from the sound of a highway fender bender. But except for a bandaged knee, Rodney Hampton's fenders appeared to be as smooth as ever after rushing for 134 yards for the second consecutive game. "I don't mind carrying the ball," he said, "but I don't like those hits. I got to come up with some new dances to make those guys miss." Advertisement But the more times a running back carries the ball, the more hits he has to endure. That's the price a running back must pay. Even with a three-year $6.9 million contract, even at a solid 230 pounds on his muscular 5-foot-11-inch body, it's a heavy price. Advertisement It's also the risk that a coach takes in exposing his best running back to that many hits. Hampton had 29 carries, his previous high, a week earlier. Yesterday only two other Giant runners, Dave Meggett and Jarrod Bunch, carried the ball, each twice for a total of only 11 yards. But when a coach has a running back as elusive as Hampton, as Dan Reeves does, he tends to call plays for him. Especially to run out the clock, as Hampton did with 11 carries for 21 net yards in the last 6 minutes to approach Butch Woolfolk's club record of 43 carries, set in 1983. "Rodney gets stronger as the game goes along," the Giants coach said. Stronger in a sense, perhaps, and also more susceptible to a fender bender. But in his 12 seasons as the Denver Broncos coach, Reeves had running backs such as Sammy Winder, Bobby Humphrey and an aging Tony Dorsett, none of whom were as young and gifted as Hampton is. One reason why Reeves has entrusted the running game to Hampton in the Giants' 3-0 start. "I never had someone as big and as good as Rodney," the coach said. "I never had an offensive line that matches up physically as our guys do, that moves the other people off the line of scrimmage." Not that Hampton is going to carry the ball 41 times every week. But if the Giants are going to endure late in the season as a Super Bowl playoff contender, they will need Hampton at his healthiest, not at his sorest. And returning to the playoffs is what motivates Hampton now.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "The rushing title would be nice," he said, "but I want to get back to the playoffs." When the Giants won Super Bowl XXV, Hampton was on crutches after having suffered a broken leg in their playoff opener against the Chicago Bears. That provoked questions about the durability of his legs, but he rushed for 1,059 yards in 1991 and 1,141 last season. And with 344 yards already this season, he's on his way to another 1,000-yard season and is a threat to dethrone Emmitt Smith of the Dallas Cowboys as the N.F.L. rushing champion. "Seeing Rodney scampering down the field," left guard William Roberts said, "is like seeing the little rabbit in the Energizer commercial; he keeps going and going." In only his fourth season, Hampton has already rushed for 2,999 yards, seventh on the Giants' career list and more than halfway to the club record of 5,296 yards, held by Joe Morris. If he were to win the rushing title, he would be the first Giant to accomplish that since Eddie Price in 1951 and only the fourth in N.F.L. history. Bill Paschal did it in both 1943 and 1944, and Tuffy Leemans in 1936. Advertisement "Rodney's the overlooked back in the league," quarterback Phil Simms said. "He never looks tired. He's a running back who's built to carry the ball. It's a good thing he is, because Dan's going to try it." Hampton also caught three of Simms's passes yesterday, including one for a 37-yard gain, his longest as a receiver. Simms completed 21 of 27 for 217 yards to eight different receivers as the Giants maintained their share of the N.F.C. East lead with the Philadelphia Eagles. But after next Sunday's bye, the Giants enter the second stage of their schedule: at Buffalo in a Sunday night game, at Washington, then return to Giants Stadium against the Eagles before another bye week. Those three games will provide a better idea of how good these Giants really are. In sweeping the Chicago Bears, the Tampa Bay Bucs and the Rams, three of the N.F.L.'s lesser teams, the Giants have displayed a determined defense and a balanced offense despite the imbalance on Hampton's use in the running game. But if Rodney Hampton keeps carrying the ball so often, sooner or later he'll be in a fender bender. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 20, 1993, on Page C00007 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; How Many Hits Can Hampton Take?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »