Advertisement By ALEX YANNIS The upheaval rocking the Devils reached its most violent point with the dispatch of Kirk Muller to Montreal Friday night in a move that clearly accentuated management's intent to exert control over its players. Muller, 25 years old, was the captain and leading career scorer for the Devils and played with an unmatched devotion, but he walked out of camp Monday morning over a contract dispute. His unhappiness was shared by several other Devils players who are seeking to renegotiate their contracts after the team showed its willingness to meet the large contract of Scott Stevens, who was awarded to the Devils by an arbitrator as compensation for the St. Louis Blues' signing of Brendan Shanahan. Stevens, who is unhappy with the decision of the arbitrator, Judge Edward Houston of Ottawa, and has threatened not to report to the Devils, is scheduled to make $875,000 this season. It is his contract that has now created an unsettled atmosphere among the Devils and led to Muller's rebellion. Advertisement Muller's desertion of the Devils didn't stand too well with Lou Lamoriello, the president and general manager, who makes all decisions in conjunction with John McMullen, the team's owner and chairman. Advertisement McMullen and Lamoriello sent a clear message to the team that no rebellion would be tolerated when they traded Muller, along with reserve goaltender Roland Melanson, to the Canadiens for two forwards, high-scoring Stephane Richer and speedy Tom Chorske. "Obviously, they don't like to be challenged," Muller said yesterday before packing his gear for his flight to Montreal. "Patty was the first to challenge them and the same thing happened to him." Three years ago, Pat Verbeek became the first player in Devils' history to hold out in a contract dispute and he was shipped to Hartford. The decision to move Verbeek came as a shock to the players because of his dedication and scoring ability. Verbeek was the closest thing to a 50-goal scorer the Devils had besides John MacLean, who scored 45 last season. Verbeek scored 46 in the 1987-88 season, when the Devils made the playoffs for the first time, but he fell to 26 the following season. Production Fell Muller, who grew up with Verbeek and MacLean when they all played as teen-agers for the Devils, is the team's career leading scorer with 520 points, but his production fell below the 20-goal mark last season for the first time in six years.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. MacLean was shocked when Verbeek was traded the season following his holdout and he was also close to tears shortly after he found out about Muller's trade Friday night. "It's something very sad," said MacLean, who went to Muller's home after Friday night's 6-1 preseason victory over the Rangers. MacLean is in a contract dispute of his own with Lamoriello, but he said Friday night that an agreement appeared to be imminent. Daneyko Reports Advertisement Ken Daneyko, the rugged defenseman, who held out from the beginning of training camp, reported to the team's training facility in West Orange, N.J., yesterday. There was no one around to work with, however, as Coach Tom McVie took a group of players to Louisville, Ky., for a preseason game against Hartford last night and gave the rest of the players and coaches the day off. "I talked with Lou on Wednesday," Daneyko said yesterday, "and we made some headway. Kirk's situation has nothing to do with my decision to return." Muller had only 19 goals last season after 98 in the previous three seasons and his total production in the seven playoff games against Pittsburgh, the eventual Stanley Cup winner, was two assists. The 25-year-old Richer, who was drafted 29th by the Canadiens in 1984, the year Muller was drafted second by the Devils -- with only Mario Lemieux ahead of him -- has had two 50-goal seasons with the Canadiens. Just like Muller, however, the production by Richer (pronounced REE-shay) fell last season -- from 51 goals the year before to 31. And, like Muller, he is going into the option year of his contract and was in the midst of a contract dispute with Montreal. Unlike Muller, Richer didn't walk out. SLAP SHOTS The Devils announced that STEPHANE RICHER and TOM CHORSKE would arrive in New Jersey this afternoon. . . . CRAIG BILLINGTON went all the way in goal for the Devils Friday night, making 29 saves. . . . MIKE GARTNER has started skating for the Rangers, who announced that MIKE RICHTER and BRIAN LEETCH will join the team Tuesday. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 22, 1991, on Page 8008009 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; Devils' Message: No Room For Rebels.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »