Advertisement By FRANK LITSKY and  Matt Bahr, the Giants' kicker, worked out today in pain from a strained adductor muscle in the right thigh. He will take part in Thursday's practice, too, but there was no indication whether he could kick Sunday night against the Washington Redskins. Coach Ray Handley listed Bahr as probable, which meant he gave him a 75 percent chance to play. The Giants have a roster vacancy, and if Bahr cannot kick, Coach Ray Handley said he had a free-agent kicker in mind. The available kickers include Raul Allegre and Bjorn Nittmo, who have kicked for the Giants, and Philip Doyle, who was in their training camp last summer. Others available include Al Del Greco, Teddy Garcia, Rich Karlis and Jerry Kauric. Nine days ago, the Giants beat the Pittsburgh Steelers, 23-20, when Bahr kicked a 44-yard field goal with 4 seconds left. On the ensuing squib kickoff, Bahr was injured. Advertisement The Giants have not played since. In practice today, Bahr kicked about a dozen field goals and kickoffs, which was normal. His kickoffs were short. Advertisement "I'm not really pleased," he said. "But as long as I can walk, I'll try kicking. "I kid about it, but I've never had something like this. I don't know how to describe it. When I was driving, walking, jogging, biking and swimming, all was O.K. But in Friday's practice, I felt a sharp jab. I stopped kicking and got treatment. It hurt again today.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "I'm upset because it happened. It's distressing. It's shameful to me because I've never had anything like this before in 13 years of kicking field goals and 20 years of playing soccer." Curse on Kickers? If the game had been today, would Bahr have kicked? "I would have," he said. Effectively? "That's somebody else's evaluation," he said. After today's practice, a Giant aide drove Bahr's car from the players' parking lot to the locker-room door. As Bahr prepared to drive home, he raised the question whether there was a curse on Giants' injury-prone kickers in recent years like Allegre and Ali Haji-Sheikh. Bahr invoked the name of a Giants kicker of old. "Maybe Pete Gogolak insulted the seventh son of a seventh son," Bahr said. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 24, 1991, on Page B00019 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL; Bahr Still Uncertain for Redskins.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »