Advertisement By FILIP BONDY For Bora Milutinovic, here was succor for a soccer-starved man: The powerful national soccer teams of Italy, Ireland and Portugal, all prepackaged and ready to go, in a four-city, round-robin tournament starting May 30, with the flawed United States team that Milutinovic has coached now for a year. Let the drubbings begin. "Americans want to win all the time, but I don't care," said Milutinovic, at a Manhattan news conference to publicize the United States Cup tournament. "Our problem is we don't have too many games against the best teams." Nearly 12 months on the job have taught Milutinovic something about coaching soccer in America. It is tough to choose up decent sides and find a field. With no major professional league in the United States, with an ocean separating the Americans from the European game, exposure and experience have been tough to acquire. "It is most important to see the players in important games," Milutinovic said. "We could play Panama and Nicaragua and beat them, 7-0, all the time. That would mean nothing." Advertisement The long-range goal, of course, remains the 1994 World Cup in the United States. That was the task for which Milutinovic was hired last year, and why he brought the national team together last week for a somewhat humbling 3-0 loss to Brazil in Fortaleza.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The United States Cup will be held at the Yale Bowl in New Haven, Robert F. Kennedy Stadium in Washington, Soldier Field in Chicago, and Foxboro Stadium in Massachusetts. Advertisement Ireland, Italy and Portugal will all pose different problems for the Americans. Ireland is a physical team, built in the image of Coach Jack Charlton, which keeps the ball in the air and plays the long passing game. Portugal relies more on individual runs and uneven tempos. Italy, the strongest team, is being transformed by its headstrong coach, Arrigo Sacchi, who was an eloquent and arrogant figure yesterday at the Plaza Hotel in Manhattan. Sacchi took over after Italy's humiliating failure to qualify for the European championship, and has been trying to get celebrity superstars like Roberto Baggio to play a more zone-oriented style. When Italy faces Portugal in the United States Cup on May 31 at the Yale Bowl, it will be a match more meaningful than a mere exhibition. Both these national teams are in the same qualifying group for the World Cup finals. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 4, 1992, on Page B00009 of the National edition with the headline: SOCCER; U.S. Cup Might Raise Americans' Game.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »