Advertisement By MICHAEL JANOFSKY and  As the leaders practiced their free-skate programs today, simulating what they hope will become medal-winning performances Friday night in the concluding round of the Olympic women's figure-skating competition, Surya Bonaly of France converted nine triple jumps, the most of any skater, but left out her backflip. How critical was this, with the glamour event of the Albertville Games just a day away? Not very, from the whimsical look on Bonaly's face, as she left the arena, not talking because of a sore throat. Her mother, however, seemed downright annoyed, and she had no sore throat. Thus, the serenity of a routine day of preparation was broken, providing at least one minor diversion from the building drama of who would succeed Katarina Witt as Olympic champion: The ever-steady and imperturable Kristi Yamaguchi of Fremont, Calif., who held first place after the original program on Wednesday night; Nancy Kerrigan of Stoneham, Mass., whose growing elegance brought her to second place; or the two participants in this little subplot, Bonaly and Midori Ito of Japan, who held third and fourth? Ito First Overshadowed in Practice Suzanne Bonaly had been told by the competition referee, Ben Wright of the United States that Surya could do no more backflips in practice, as she had Wednesday morning, just a shadow length from Ito. Wright saw it happen and viewed it as sheer intimidation, inasmuch as backflips are not allowed in performance. Advertisement Sure enough, in her original program, Ito fell on the most difficult triple jump she tried and left the ice looking appropriately distraught for a favorite who had just skated out of serious gold-medal contention. She wore the same haunted look this morning in practice. Advertisement "Of course, it was intimidation," Wright said today. "Whether or not it was intentional or not, I don't know. But these people have enough problems putting their mental state in order without this kind of bashing going on." Suzanne Bonaly thought it was intimidation all right, Wright intimidating her daughter to make certain the two Americans stay closer to the gold than her daughter. Besides, she said, Surya needs those backflips as part of her daily workout routine. "To do it at that time is to unnerve Surya," she said of Wright's admonition. "It made her very upset." In any other sport, this would be little more than a tempest in a teapot, but this is figure skating, a virtual china shop of emotions. The pressures are that much more acute upon Bonaly as European champion, the home-country favorite and a skater of uncommon background.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. She is the 18-year-old adopted daughter of an administrator with the French Defense Ministry, Georges, and his wife, who works as one of Surya's trainers. For years, the parents perpetuated the story that Surya was from Reunion, a French island in the Indian Ocean. More recently, they have said that her natural parents were from Reunion and that she was born in Nice, where Georges and Suzanne lived when they adopted Surya. They have since moved to Paris. In any case, the daughter grew in Rapunzel fashion, never cutting her hair. She eats only natural foods, travels with her dogs in a van, preaches environmentalism and thrives in a sport in which nearly every participant is white or Oriental. Surya is black. Her distinctiveness was reflected by her athletic career. Once a gymnast and world junior tumbling champion in 1986, she eventually narrowed her focus to skating. By 1989, she finished 10th at the world championships and in 1990 won her first of two European championships. Other top-jumping skaters have struggled to match their athleticism with artistry -- notably Ito and Tonya Harding of Portland, Ore., who was sixth after Wednesday. Bonaly found her disparity stubbornly in tact until only recently, when her coach, Didier Gailhaguet, finally coaxed some elegance out of her. Advertisement Her jumping still dominates her programs, however, even if Ito and Harding are the only women to have converted a triple axel in competition. Bonaly has landed a quadruple toe loop in practice and included one today. In all likelihood, she will skip the quad in her free skate and try about eight triples. Most other skaters attempt no more than seven. "What she does is her decision alone at the time," said Suzanne Bonaly, who frequently speaks for her daughter. For her program, Bonaly has chosen a medley of Spanish music as background for a simulated bullfight, in which the bull proves so courageous, the matador allows him to live. Given her remarkable athletic ability, it once might have been fair to wonder which role she plays. But befitting her place in the standing and proximity to a medal no French woman has won since Jacqueline du Bief was third 40 years ago, Bonaly as matador has proved herself a challenger worthy of serious consideration. Even if her bull could not distinguish the rink from a china shop. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 21, 1992, on Page B00009 of the National edition with the headline: ALBERTVILLE; Bonaly, Sans Backflip, Has the Jump on Ito.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »