Advertisement By CHARLIE NOBLES and  It was a well-kept secret this week that Charlie Ward, Florida State's Heisman-candidate quarterback, did no passing in practice, the result of a mild case of tendinitis. So much for any concerns the Seminoles may have had about Ward's sharpness today against Virginia. Ward produced 322 passing yards and 3 touchdowns and even ran for a score in Florida State's rollicking 40-14 victory before 76,607 at Doak Campbell Stadium. "I just needed a little rest from throwing so much," Ward said. "I've got no problems. I'm a happy man." The victory raised Florida State's record to 7-0 and fortified its standing as the country's top-ranked team, especially with Tennessee tying Alabama and Florida losing to Auburn, which is coached by Florida State Coach Bobby Bowden's son, Terry. Advertisement "He just cost me coach of the year," Florida State's Bowden said with a smile. "I'm getting rid of him." Advertisement Virginia, which came in averaging 38.4 points, fell to 5-1. At game's end, Bowden told Cavalier Coach George Welch, "You outfought us in the second half." Welch's reply: "Aw, hush." As in: It's not necessary to patronize me. Some felt this was a perfect spot for a Florida State letdown, coming a week after the Seminoles' 28-10 victory over their longtime nemesis, the University of Miami. "We have too many leaders around here to let that happen," said running back Sean Jackson. "And the coaches are always on us. They say, 'We don't have time for a letdown.' " A Slow Start Florida State started slowly enough today, netting only 2 yards on its first possession. And on Virginia's first play from scrimmage, fullback Charles Way repelled some five tacklers en route to a 16-yard gain.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Talk about deceiving starts. The next time Florida State got the ball, its multifaceted offense suddenly found a weakness. On third and 16 at its 14-yard line, Ward found wide receiver Tamarick Vanover streaking behind cornerback Greg McClellan and hit him in stride at his 45. Vanover ran untouched to complete the 84-yard touchdown play, Ward's longest at the school. The Seminoles then scored on four of their next five possessions to turn the game into a rout and provide another striking showcase for Ward's Heisman aspirations. Ward got his second touchdown pass with 4 minutes 54 seconds left in the first quarter. He kept looking right, looking right, until suddenly spinning and finding Jackson open in the left flat for a 5-yard touchdown. Before half's end, he produced one of his niftiest moves in a season full of highlights. With Florida State at the Virginia 18, he dodged a blitz and then zigzagged his way into the end zone, diving over the final defender in acrobatic style. Advertisement "I had a choice of trying to throw it over a 6-foot-8 guy or run it," Ward said of his decision. In between, Florida State used some ball control, with a 12-play drive ending in Scott Bentley's 23-yard field goal, and a 9-play effort resulting in fullback William Floyd's 1-run plunge off left guard for a touchdown. By halftime it was 30-0. 'They Really Challenged Me' With an offensive line averaging 289 pounds, Virginia looked skilled at times but kept being frustrated by a Seminole defense that had allowed no opponent more than one touchdown this season. Cornerback Corey Sawyer contributed four pass deflections and an interception. "They really challenged me," Sawyer said. "But the more I'm challenged, the better I play." Seconds before halftime, the Cavaliers were at Florida State's 14-yard line, but a sack of quarterback Symmion Willis by linebacker Ken Alexander squelched that threat. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 17, 1993, on Page 8008008 of the National edition with the headline: COLLEGE FOOTBALL; The Numbers Prove That Ward Is Healthy.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »