Advertisement By JAIME DIAZ and  Mark Wiebe and Jeff Sluman shot eight-under-par 64's today, the lowest scores in the first round of the A.T.& T. Pebble Beach National Pro-Am. On a clear, warm day in which almost no wind blew off the Pacific Ocean, both played at Pebble Beach, one of three courses being used for this tournament. "If you were going to get Pebble, today was the day you could really do it," said Sluman, the 1988 PGA Champion. "But how can you ever get upset playing this golf course? It's kind of what golf is all about." Wiebe's Favorite Course Wiebe, who went to college at San Jose State, said Pebble Beach has been his favorite course since he first played it at the age of 16. Advertisement "A 64 feels a lot better here than anyplace else," said the 34-year-old Wiebe, who made the field of 180 players on a sponsor's exemption. "This is the best it gets." Advertisement A two-time winner on the PGA Tour, Wiebe is coming off the worst year of his nine-year career. He finished 136th on the money list in 1991 and lost his exempt status. In December, he failed to regain his playing card at the tour's qualifying school.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "I just played so bad last year," said Wiebe, who explained his slump started when he got confused after trying to change his swing. "I just felt no matter how tough I was mentally, I just didn't have the skill to compete. There was a ceiling on my game." But Wiebe thinks he has turned the situation around with hard work over the last several weeks. A key figure has been his longtime teacher Carl Welty, Wiebe said Welty had helped him regain a natural feeling swing. "I feel like my body is working normally instead of having to make it do something," he said. CHIP SHOTS A trial in the suit by Karsten Manufacturing against the PGA Tour has been set for Nov. 3 in United States District Court in Phoenix. The company is contesting the decision by the tour policy board to ban Ping Eye2 irons from tournament competition because their grooves allegedly put too much spin on the golf ball. GREG NORMAN of Australia has received an invitation to this year's Masters Tournament as a select foreign player. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 31, 1992, on Page B00012 of the National edition with the headline: GOLF; Wiebe and Sluman Enjoy Perfect Day on Pebble Beach Course.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »