Advertisement By JOE SEXTON The auditions, of course, have been the only thing worth witnessing at Shea for months. And they have been everything auditions usually are, awkward, incomplete, rich with transcendent thrills and mortifying embarrassments. Perhaps their greatest aspect of ridiculousness has been the infrequency with which they have been attended by the man for whom they have been held, General Manager Joe McIlvaine. Ah, well, that's show business. And with only a week left before the curtain mercifully falls to muffle the Mets for months, herewith some observations: JEROMY BURNITZ -- His name is the first one off the lips of opposing managers intrigued by assessing the young talent the Mets have sent out against them since about May. Dusty Baker came out early to see Burnitz hit one night at Shea. Jim Fregosi also spoke admiringly of the outfielder. Burnitz reciprocated by homering against the Giants and the Phillies on the very nights their managers mentioned him. His 12 homers in 234 times at bat project to close to 30 for a full season, a calculation worth savoring. He had seven runs batted in in one game in as memorable a display of offense as the Mets have manufactured in years. And on a club bereft of speed and excitement, his six triples in limited duty are enough to induce ecstasy. Clearly, though, he isn't either complete or polished. His outfield work has been enthusiastic but erratic. The strike zone is often a foreign concept. He is batting .241. And his trumpeted speed hasn't translated into much on the basepaths, Burnitz having been caught stealing (six times) twice as often as he has successfully stolen. Grade: B. Advertisement JEFF KENT -- If the Mets play him at second base in 1994, it will be a tacit admission they don't plan to be instantly competitive again in the National League East. He is a profound liability at the critical position. One, though, can't ignore his offensive numbers -- his average is up (.239 in 1992, .270 in 1993), his home runs are more than encouraging (19), his r.b.i. (70) are unprecedented in Mets history for a second baseman. Advertisement When evaluating his season, however, it might be most instructive to keep in mind the accepted conclusion throughout baseball: The baseball has been juiced. Anyway, the Mets could abbreviate their latest experiment in finding a position for an impressive bat and play Kent at first base. It worked for Gregg Jefferies. And 25 homers and 90 r.b.i. would work as legitimate power numbers from Kent as a first baseman. On the intangible front, Kent, a peculiar public presence, had come under the clubhouse influence of Bobby Bonilla, which perhaps is not a genius's formula for great p.r. Grade: C plus.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. RYAN THOMPSON -- There is nothing unique about this enigma -- a gifted, but overswinging, power-mad athlete trying to be a hitter. Pat Gillick, the Toronto general manager who traded Thompson, has continued to say he will be a big star or a big bust, and Thompson has continued to fail to give convincing signals about which extreme he is headed for. His 17 doubles are almost as many as Bonilla had in more than twice as many at-bats in 1993. But Thompson's strikeout ratio -- he strikes out more than once every four times at bat -- blows away anyone on the club and might in the end obliterate his career aspirations. In a joyless season, Thompson's sublime play in center has been a treat. "He's fun to work with," said Manager Dallas Green. He is 25, and he has got to be more than fun soon. Grade: C. BOBBY JONES -- The 23-year-old right-hander, his graduation from Fresno (Calif.) High School notwithstanding, warned people not to confuse him with Tom Seaver. Not a lot of folks, it is safe to say, have suffered the delusion. Mention Frank Tanana, though, and there might be room and reason for comparisons. Jones can get hit numbingly hard. He can also look wise beyond measure for a string of innings on the mound. Opponents have hit close to .300 against the right-hander and his earned run average is a less-than-svelte 4.35. Is he a capable prospect to be a third or fourth starter? Yes, although a No. 3 would be a reach at this point. Will he be in the rotation in 1994? Yes. There are more questions, of course, and at 23 there would appear to be a lot more baseball career left for Jones. Grade: C plus. BUTCH HUSKEY -- The organization's greatest apprehensions about promoting the 21-year-old for a September sense of the majors may be coming true. Huskey, whom the Mets in their more unrestricted dreams might have hoped would be ready for 1994, has been the living, lurching embodiment of the term overmatched. He has 5 hits in 35 times at bat, one for extra bases. He is late, he is fooled, he had the misfortune to make his first start against Darryl Kile and his no-hit curveball. The trauma has endured. His inconsistency at third also reinforces the club's thinking that first base is his position at Shea once he can ever say confidence at the plate is mine. Grade: D. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 26, 1993, on Page 8008005 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; From B to D, Mets Have Work Cut Out.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »