Advertisement By MICHAEL MARTINEZ and  Given the texture and the scope of the murder trial at which he will testify this week, Jets Coach Bruce Coslet is just a small piece of a very large puzzle that has spanned one change of venue, one plea bargain, one mistrial and countless hours of court testimony without a verdict. How much insight Coslet will offer in the trial of Michael Blatt, a 45-year-old former sports agent and wealthy developer from Stockton, Calif., is a mystery. But so is the slaying with which Blatt is charged. Blatt, who briefly served as interim general manager of the Seattle Seahawks football team, is charged in the murder-for-hire death of Laurence Carnegie, a one-time business associate of his who was shot with a crossbow in late February 1989, then strangled and dumped down a hillside. The prosecution contends that Blatt ordered the killing in the belief that Carnegie had ruined his chances to be named the Seahawks' general manager on a full-time basis. James Mackey and Carl Hancock Jr. admitted to killing Carnegie, 38, in exchange for a recommendation of parole, but they said they were hired by Blatt, who had feuded with Carnegie over business dealings. Mackey was a former football player at the University of the Pacific who knew Blatt through Blatt's sports agency; Hancock, one of Mackey's friends, is also a former Pacific player. Advertisement Coslet has been called by the prosecution, and is expected to testify Tuesday about his relationship with Blatt, which dates to the mid-1960's, when both attended Pacific. Coslet played football there and was later a coach at the university. Advertisement Because of a gag order, Coslet last week refused to discuss his role in the trial. According to the authorities in San Joaquin County, where the slaying occurred, Blatt planned, if named the Seattle general manager, to dismiss Chuck Knox as the Seahawks' coach and replace him with Coslet. But this never happened. Blatt's stint as interim general manager lasted three weeks, until the Seahawks' owners, Kenneth Behring and Kenneth Hoffmann, hired Tom Flores, the former Raiders coach, to be Seattle's president and general manager. The prosecutor in the case, Eual Blansett, says that Coslet sent Blatt a note of condolence after Flores was selected to head the Seattle franchise. History of Conflict There was apparently bad blood between Blatt and Carnegie. According to several news reports, the two had skirmishes involving their business interests. Carnegie had filed a lawsuit against Blatt over ownership of a condominium development. The current trial of Blatt began Aug. 12 in Alameda County Superior Court and is expected to continue for several more months. Because of pretrial publicity in the Stockton area, where the murder took place, it was moved here.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The first trial of Blatt, which lasted five months, ended in a mistrial in October 1990. A jury deliberated two weeks but ended up locked at 9-3 in favor of conviction. Members of the jury reportedly questioned the credibility of Mackey and Hancock. Blatt, charged with the special circumstance of murder for financial gain, at first faced the death penalty if convicted. But in the second trial, Blansett is seeking life in prison without the possibility of parole. The judge in the first case, Frank Kim, initially prevented the prosecution from citing Blatt's unhappiness over failing to get the Seahawks' job as a possible motive for the killing. But the judge in the current trial, Duane Martin, has allowed Blansett to introduce that possibility. Killing to Curry Favor? Advertisement Blatt's lawyers maintain that Mackey, who reportedly admired Blatt, plotted and carried out the killing to win Blatt's favor. Mackey and Hancock must serve at least 16 years and 8 months of a 25-years-to-life sentence, after which they could be paroled. In the first trial, Mackey testified he received three payments from Blatt totaling $5,500. He said he paid Hancock $300 for his role. Mackey has yet to testify in the current trial. Blatt helped arrange the sale of the Seahawks to Behring and Hoffman in late 1988. When the new owners later dismissed Mike McCormack as general manager, they replaced him with Blatt, who then began to run the team on a daily basis, although without an official title. In the meantime, however, Behring and Hoffman privately met with Flores, agreeing to hire him as general manager on Feb. 8. It was not officially announced until Feb. 22, six days before Carnegie was killed. In testimony last Thursday, Flores said he told Behring he would not accept the job unless he was given authority over everyone except the owners. "If he stayed, it would have to be under me," Flores said of Blatt. "They agreed." Flores said he did not think that Blatt was aware of the owners' decision until he and Blatt met, for the first time, at Behring's home on Feb. 21. The testimony was intended to show that Blatt was aware he had been passed over for the job before Carnegie was killed. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 22, 1991, on Page B00010 of the National edition with the headline: FOOTBALL; Coslet Goes West To Take The Stand.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »