Advertisement By TIMOTHY W. SMITH Marvin Jones, the Jets' first-round draft pick, says he's getting a little antsy about his lack of playing time, but it looks as if it could be a while before the linebacker gets a significant role on the defense. He is not close to moving Kyle Clifton out of the starting middle linebacker position. Jones, who missed 14 days of training camp before signing his five-year, $5.9 million contract, has been playing mainly on special teams. He was in for two series -- about six plays -- in the first game against Denver. He didn't play at all against the Dolphins. He got a lot of practice during the bye week, but is not considered ready to step into the lineup just yet. Coach Bruce Coslet wouldn't even commit to getting Jones more playing time against the Patriots this Sunday. "He took a lot of snaps in practice," Coslet said. "He did well from what I could see. He was making the calls. He's right on schedule. Nothing is going to be as valuable to him as actual game time as we try to fit him in. "Kyle is playing very well right now. We don't want to upset the apple cart too much. You'd like to see Marvin on the field a little bit, but we're walking a fine line there." For the Best? Advertisement Jones said he was in the dark as to when he might expect to get more playing time. "That's the best way sometimes," he said. "It makes you go out and practice harder. If you go out and practice hard you can't relax, because you don't know what they're planning. Advertisement "I'm a lot more comfortable, especially this week, because I've been getting a lot of work. Instead of learning the little parts of it, I'm learning the whole aspect of what we're trying to do. It's better in that sense, rather than pressing and saying, 'I've got to get it right. I've got to get it right.' If I go out and do it now, I can correct it as I go along." The Jets don't want to risk putting a rookie onto the field in such a critical position on the defense, thereby increasing their chances for breakdowns. So, they would rather go with a proven veteran in Clifton, even if he doesn't have all the physical skills that Jones has. The Waiting Game Adrian Murrell, the Jets' fifth-round pick, was the hottest running back in the preseason, leading the team in rushing. But he has cooled considerably now that the regular season has rolled around. Murrell, who has been used on kickoff returns, hasn't taken one handoff in the two games. He has 6 returns for 83 yards (13.8 yards a return). "I think about that, but it's something that happens with rookies," Murrell said of his high preseason numbers and lack of playing time in the regular season. "With coaches, their biggest worries with rookies are what you're going to do when the bright lights go on. It's a matter of time before you can go in and show what you can do. You just have to be ready and not be nervous. When the time comes, I'll be prepared."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Murrell is taking his inspiration from rookie tight end Fred Baxter, whose first reception was for a 3-yard touchdown. "Fred got in and did what he had to do," Murrell said. "Now, the coaches aren't going to be afraid to put him in when the situation calls for it. That's what you have to do. I'm waiting for my time to come so I can go ahead and shine." Anniversary for Blanchard Kicker Cary Blanchard is only 21 field goals behind the National Football League-record 29 consecutive field goals made by Chargers kicker John Carney. "I don't know how long they've been," Blanchard said. "He had 12 carried over from last year. He's having a heck of year so far. You get in a zone and you just go with it and try to stay with it. Advertisement "It's pretty weird. This is his second time to get six in one game. That's a lot of field goals. You go out there and hope to get the field goals. I'd rather be kicking extra points than field goals. If we're kicking extra points, we're scoring some points." When Blanchard, who has hit eight consecutive kicks going back to last season, takes to the field to kick against the Patriots this Sunday, it will be an anniversary of sorts. His first game last season, after signing with the Jets during Week 4, was against New England. He hit field goals of 37, 40 and 47 yards in the Jets' 30-21 victory over the Patriots. In the second meeting between the two teams, Blanchard's 27-yard field goal at the end of the half was the only scoring for the Jets in their 24-3 loss to the Patriots. Spot Open, for Brown? The Jets waived defensive tackle Mario Johnson yesterday. Johnson was a 10th-round pick last year from Missouri and played in 14 games last season. He had played sparingly in the first two regular-season games, after missing most of training camp with a sprained ankle. The Jets said they had not made a decision about filling the roster spot opened by cutting Johnson. But the team has been working out several receivers over the last few weeks and Coach Bruce Coslet has been high on Eddie Brown, whom he worked with in Cincinnati. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 22, 1993, on Page B00017 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL: JETS NOTEBOOK; Touted Rookie Roaming the Bench, Not the Field.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »