The two least popular answers to Question No. 1 this week turned this into a two-man race. Jose Ramirez,  a second baseman with the Indians, went 4 for 10 with a triple and three runs scored in six games. Marcus Semien, a White Sox infielder, went 7 for 19 with a double, a run batted in, a stolen base and two runs scored. Nick Castellanos, Michael Choice and Billy Hamilton, all on teams either headed to the postseason or trying to get there, received very little playing time. And it was the fact that Cleveland is battling for a wild card spot that had the Bats blog’s crack baseball committee choose Ramirez as the correct answer.  Take two of the worst teams in baseball, lock them in a series together when some of their best players are taking time off with injuries, and you don’t have a very exciting product. The Astros and Mariners ran away with Question No. 2, averaging crowds of 10,570, nearly 9,000 people a game less than the closest competition.  The September auditions we asked you about in Question No. 3 had a slight resemblance to “American Idol” tryouts. The Phillies’ Cody Asche got the nod by going 6 for 20 with a home run, even though he struck out nine times. Lucas Duda did hit two homers, drove in four runs and scored five times, but he hit just .207 for the week (6-29).  The New York Times reporters Tyler Kepner, Ben Shpigel, Jack Curry and Joe Lapointe, along with their Times colleagues, will bring baseball fans inside the run up to the 2008 baseball season with access, analysis and the latest updates from spring training. Tyler Kepner has covered the Yankees for The New York Times since 2002.  He joined The Times in 2000 as the Mets beat writer. A native of Philadelphia and a graduate of Vanderbilt University, Kepner has also covered the Angels for the Riverside Press-Enterprise in California and the Mariners for the Seattle Post-Intelligencer. He lives in Connecticut with his wife and their four children. Ben Shpigel has covered the Mets for The Times since 2005. Before then, he was a staff writer for the Dallas Morning News for two years. He also worked at The News Journal in Wilmington, Del., and for the Atlanta Journal-Constitution.  Shpigel received a bachelor's degree in English and journalism from Emory University and a master's degree in journalism from Columbia University. He and his wife, Rebecca, live in Manhattan. Jack Curry has covered baseball for the The New
York Times for 18 seasons.  Since 1998, he has served as the newspaper's national baseball writer.  Before that, Curry covered the Yankees from 1991-1997.  He was also the beat writer for the New Jersey Nets' 1990-1991 season and covered college basketball, college football and wrote for the Metro section. Born in Jersey City, N.J., Curry graduated from Fordham University. He and his wife, Pamela, live in New Jersey. 
			This blog’s regular features, including live game analysis, news and notes from Tyler Kepner, David Waldstein and others, can now be found on the baseball section of our website.Read more… 
			The free-agent second baseman Robinson Cano is reportedly still seeking a 10-year deal for $310 million, figures the Yankees are said to be unwilling to meet. Read more… 
			When asked what he has done thus far in the off-season, Mets General Manager Sandy Alderson responded with a joke. Read more… 
			The Mets maybe should, but most assuredly won’t, defy all expectations and make a legitimate bid to lure Robinson Cano away from the Yankees.Read more… 
			The Yankees are waiting to hear whether Curtis Granderson will accept their qualifying offer, and set their outfield for 2014, or test the market and send the Yankees chasing another free agent. Read more… Follow Advertisement