Advertisement  It was the hardcourts that brought out the competitive nature in Todd Martin: the basketball ones. He dreamed of making the last-second shot; he dreaded making the crucial error that would lose the game. In a sense, basketball drew Martin to tennis courts. Martin has gradually and impressively moved up in the ranking from No. 269 in 1990, his first pro season, to No. 17 in the world now. He moved up 70 spots this year and cracked the top 20 by beating Boris Becker and Andre Agassi in the Canadian Open, where he lost to Mikael Pernfors in the final. Martin is in the third round of the United States Open after Ronald Agenor retired yesterday with a stomach illness while trailing, 6-3, 4-1, in their second-round match. Martin, who survived a five-setter in the first round, is in the toughest men's bracket, with four seeded players alive, including No. 1 Jim Courier. Advertisement At 23 and 6 feet 6 inches, Martin looks more like what he would have loved to have been: a rangy guard for the Spartans of Michigan State. But the native of Lansing, Mich., traded hoops for tennis when he discovered at age 10 or 11 that "I had complete control of 80 square feet of earth." Advertisement "I didn't have that in basketball," Martin said. In his brief career, he has taken control of the court to defeat the likes of Goran Ivanisevic (at Wimbledon, no less), Michael Chang and David Wheaton. He said he worked on his volleying, the last element of his game that needed improvement. He wants the same, if not better, results at the Open this year as at Wimbledon, where he reached the quarterfinals before bowing to Courier. "I don't think the main draw matters that much," Martin said. "I wasn't seeded in the top eight at Wimbledon but I felt like one of the top eight players there. Still, I'd like to finish next week with a silver cup in my hands." Doubles Team Rolls On Gigi Fernandez and Natalya Zvereva continue their Grand Slam quest. They already have won the Australian, French and Wimbledon trophies in tandem this year and are in hot pursuit of a royal flush: their fourth Grand Slam doubles title of 1993. The American from Puerto Rico and the Belarussian from Minsk defeated Ingelise Driehuis and Lupita Novelo of Mexico, 7-6 (7-5), 6-1, to increase their 1993 match record to 45-4. The last time a doubles team went through the four majors undefeated in one year was 1984, when Martina Navratilova and Pam Shriver earned the Grand Slam during a 109-match winning streak that stretched from 1983 to 1985. In that spell, they won eight Slam doubles titles in a row. Trash Talk From Medvedev Eighth-seeded Andrei Medvedev reached the third round by defeating Richey Reneberg, 4-6, 7-6 (7-5), 6-4, 6-3, last night on the Grandstand Court.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Early in the final set of the 3-hour-13-minute match, play was interrupted for almost 10 minutes when strong winds gave the court a Candlestick Park-look, blowing trash and glass all over the place. "I am staying in Manhattan, that is why it was like normal for me," said Medvedev in explaining why he wasn't fazed. "The garbage was flying everywhere and that is good." Life After Qualifying The last two of the 16 men's qualifiers bowed out yesterday. Michael Joyce, No. 315 in the world, lost in straight sets to Jim Courier, and 142d ranked Neil Borwick lost to No. 58-ranked Magnus Larrson. Advertisement Of the eight qualifiers in the women's draw of 128, two have made it to the third round: Karina Habsudova of Slovakia and Jenny Byrne of Australia. Byrne will face Maria Jose Gaidano of Argentina, who lost in the second round of qualifying but was admitted into the main draw after Mary Joe Fernandez pulled out. The Bodyguards It would be tough to walk anywhere around the National Tennis Center without bumping into the security guards clad in yellow golf shirts. The United States Tennis Association is taking no chances, so the security detail swarms the areas players most often frequent. James Rickenbacker of Long Island has been assigned to the Stadium Court and has shadowed the likes of Andre Agassi, Steffi Graf and, yesterday, Jana Novotona. Rickenbacker said this is his first stint as a bodyguard but says that he does work out. And from the looks of his physique he has not lost much since he played high school football. "We're here just to watch over the players," Rickenbacker said. "Security is definitely a big concern for us."  Favorites and Records Fall When 11th-seeded Goran Ivanisevic made his annual early exit yesterday, it marked the seventh time a seeded men's player has gone down in the first two rounds here this year, an Open record. The old record of six was set in 1976 and equaled in 1982.  Star Search Jack Nicholson was in the house today, and Sophia Loren watched Courier again in the Stadium Court.. . . Yesterday's crowd of 43,137 broke the Open record of 43,113 set on Tuesday. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 4, 1993, on Page 1001031 of the National edition with the headline: NOTEBOOK; For Martin, Game Is Nothing but Net.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »