Advertisement By CLAIRE SMITH It's a good thing the Atlanta Braves and the Philadelphia Phillies got a breather from their National League Championship Series yesterday. They needed it, if only to try to figure out the total upheaval of the norm that has occurred through the first five zany games of the series. What the two teams know for sure is this: The Phillies, fresh off two victories in three games down South, returned from Atlanta to Veterans Stadium with a 3-2 lead. They can win the pennant with a victory in Game 6 today (Atlanta's Greg Maddux goes against Tommy Greene) or Game 7 tomorrow night (Tom Glavine against Philadelphia's Terry Mulholland). Just how the Phillies went slip-sliding into that enviable position, and just how the Braves ended up in such a dire predicament, is not so easily explained. Because a lot of things have defied logic so far. For example: *How can the team with an earned run average of 5.09 in five games have the lead over the team with a glistening 2.72 e.r.a.? *How can the team with the .227 batting average and only 17 runs be about to burst the bubble of the team with the .290 average and 30 runs? Advertisement *How can the team whose bullpen has blown two of its first three save opportunities (Games 1 and 5) and nearly threw away the third (Game 4) win each of those games and still wind up with two saves? Advertisement *How can a team that won only 17 of its 97 regular-season games by scoring four runs or less have won three in this series? Need more proof of the living, breathing aberration that is the National League Championship Series? Well, the Braves, with one of the most feared offenses in baseball, showed that their reputation was deserved by scoring a two-game record 23 runs in Games 2 and 3. But from the seventh inning of Game 3 through the eighth inning of Game 5, they scored only once. And yet twice, in Games 4 and 5, the Braves wound up just a base hit away from winning. 19 Strikeouts, No Victories Then there's the most dominant pitcher and least lucky pitcher of the series. In two starts, Philadelphia's Curt Schilling has allowed the Braves just three earned runs in 16 innings, for a pristine 1.69 e.r.a. He has struck out 19. Yet he could lose a shot at the series' most valuable player award because he is without a victory. And for that he can thank the aptly nicknamed Wild Thing, Mitch Williams, who came in the wake of Schilling's sensational starts and blew the leads both times. Still, the Phillies, living on the edge but living nonetheless, went on to win both those games in the 10th inning, the most recent a 4-3 victory in Game 5 Monday.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. That they did not lose, that they did not fold in the wake of continuous drama says a lot about the team, a defiant Phillies Manager Jim Fregosi pointed out Monday. "We are not supposed to be on the same field as Atlanta, according to some people, but I think we've shown that we're a good club, a solid club, and that we don't quit," he said. Obviously not in extra innings, which is where the Phillies have now won two games. And not in one-run games, which all three of the Phillies' victories have been. "We knew we could play close games," said Fregosi. "These guys do what it takes to win." Atlanta came into the series boasting a major league best 104 regular-season victories. So it must be that in this series, at least, it's perhaps better to be good and lucky than to be the best. Especially if the guys who are lucky are getting the bounces and the guys who were the best aren't. And that, too, has been precisely the case. Because while the Phillies could rightfully brag of their pitching in the last two games, especially by starters Danny Jackson and Schilling, they know that the Braves' defense also aided them. Stellar Outfield Plays Advertisement In Game 4, the game the Phillies won, 2-1, both runs off John Smoltz were unearned. In Game 5, a Kim Batiste error helped fuel a three-run Braves rally in the ninth. The Phillies' defense, meanwhile, has made some great plays to help keep the Braves at bay. Especially stellar has been the Phillies' outfield. Left fielders Milt Thompson and Pete Incaviglia (yes, that Pete Incaviglia) contributed important circus catches in the two victories in Atlanta. And Wes Chamberlain, half of the Phillies' right-field platoon, threw out one runner at second Monday and assisted on another put-out at home plate in again what turned out to be a one-run game. Stunning upsets? Not to Fregosi. Not to the Phillies, perhaps the only true believers in their chances to begin with. "All year, that's how it has been," said Lenny Dykstra, whose 10th-inning home run won Game 5. "It's been a complete team effort. Chamberlain made two great throws, and Inky, who's been buried in the press, makes a great play. That's what it takes to win." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 13, 1993, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: THE PLAYOFFS; So Far, the Phillies Defy Both Logic and the Braves.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »