Advertisement By ALEX YANNIS and  The timing was off, especially in overtime, for the Devils in their first game back from the 10-day layoff as a result of the National Hockey League strike. The worst miscalculation for the Devils came 2 minutes 15 seconds into the overtime period, when they got caught outnumbered in their zone and allowed Peter Bondra to score and give the Capitals a 4-3 victory at Byrne Meadowlands Arena. One man whose timing was on the button all night for the Devils was Chris Terreri, their premier goaltender, who played brilliantly in his return after missing five games with a sprained lower back. Terreri's back benefited a great deal as a result of the strike. With tonight's performance, he showed that his back ailment might have disappeared for good, and the Devils need him because Craig Billington will be undergoing arthroscopic surgery in his right knee Monday and will be out for the season. "I felt better than I thought," said Terreri, who faced 29 shots, three in overtime, but wasn't responsible for Washington's goals, scored by Mike Ridley in the first, Dino Ciccarelli and Michal Pivonka in the third and Bondra's winner in overtime. 'He'll Be Ready to Go' in Playoffs Advertisement "He was great," Coach Tom McVie said of Terreri. "I thought he was our best player. He looked outstanding. He'll be ready to go when the playoffs start." Advertisement The Devils have clinched a playoff spot and will meet either the Rangers or the Capitals in the first round, starting Sunday. They want to finish third in the division, and they have a chance to do that with a victory over the visitng Penguins on Monday night. Aleksei Kasatonov had two goals for the Devils, including the tying goal with 2:26 left, after Zdeno Ciger opened the scoring only 49 seconds into the game. The first piece of evidence that Terreri is very close to his old form came only 3:25 into the game, when he sprawled to his right to deny Ciccarelli from point-blank range. Terreri's best save came in the ninth minute. A lead pass by Ridley allowed Ciccarelli to break in alone on Terreri, but the diminutive goaltender stopped Ciccarelli's initial shot by falling to his left and then covered the rebound by turning and falling on his back.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. McVie and his assistant Robbie Ftorek kept their eyes on Terreri for several seconds after the breakaway by Ciccarelli to see how quickly their goaltender would get up after falling. In his previous appearance, Terreri looked like an old man getting up after every fall to the ice. He looked like a major league goaltender tonight. The layoff helped key players, like Peter Stastny, Slava Fetisov, Kasatonov, Stephane Richer and Claude Lemieux, to mend. "About half the team was hurting before the strike," said Lemieux, who had been playing on a bad ankle. "The strike helped a lot of guys heal." Advertisement While the majority of the injured players benefited physically from the layoff, John MacLean suffered a setback as a result of the strike. MacLean, who has missed the entire season because of surgery for ligament damage in his right knee, started skating a week before the strike and had remote aspirations of returning for the playoffs, but the lack of ice time during the strike ended all hope for any games this season. "I kept working and it was getting stronger," MacLean said, "but the strength is not there, and I will play only when I'm 100 percent. I will play when the strength of the leg is back to that of my left leg." MacLean said that 10 days without skating put him further back than he expected and his target time to return was now pushed to the beginning of next season. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 13, 1992, on Page C00004 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; Numbers Don't Add Up as Devils Fall.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »