Advertisement By JOE SEXTON Call it panic. Call it professional gamesmanship. Whatever you call it, contenders are calling the Mets. One club official said yesterday that two clubs had made serious inquiries regarding Frank Tanana, and that he wouldn't rule out a deal being completed by late last night. One club is the Phillies. The other is believed to be the Yankees. "I heard the Yankees were going to get him," said Jim Fregosi, the manager of the Phillies. "We are continuing to look into a number of things," Manager Buck Showalter said after the Yankees were routed, 15-5, yesterday in Milwaukee. Fregosi was far more circumspect about his own interest in the 40-year-old left-hander. "He played for me at a very young age," Fregosi said of Tanana, who pitched for the Angels under Fregosi in the late 1970's. An Impressed Fregosi Advertisement But Tanana, at his advanced baseball age, has also hurt and impressed Fregosi. The left-hander turned in six solid innings as the Mets defeated the Phillies, 5-4, at Shea Tuesday night. He struck out eight and had the Phillies' big bats off rhythm all night. Advertisement "He's got a pretty good idea what he's doing," said Fregosi. And all of baseball has an exact idea of the spot the Phillies are in. They entered last night's game with the Mets on top in the National League East by only four and a half games, and with their All-Star left-hander Terry Mulholland in danger of being declared done for the season. Left-hander Danny Jackson has a sore ankle. Ben Rivera has a badly bruised earned run average. And a three-game set with the Expos, against whom Tanana has a 3.37 earned run average, looms this weekend in Montreal. Tanana's appeal to the Yankees would appear to have grown lately. Their rotation is uncertain, the bulk of their starts of late undermined by veterans and stars and rookies alike.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The start this Saturday against the Red Sox hasn't been assigned. But if it is Sterling Hitchcock or Bob Wickman, both might have 20 more miles per hour on their fastball, but neither possesses the competitive history of Tanana. Tanana Made It Through Waivers "There aren't many pitchers who made it through waivers," said Joe McIlvaine, the Mets' general manager. "Frank Tanana is one. Until today, there had been no interest. Now, clubs are searching and we've got calls about Frank. It'd have to happen quick. There isn't much left to the season." Tanana has only added to his reputation as a clutch performer -- if also a limited one -- over the past six weeks. He is desperate to be liberated from the misery of the Mets and more than eager to take on the challenge of turning around the widespread lack of interest that had stranded him at Shea through both trading deadlines. The numbers from Tanana's campaign are respectable, and that suddenly is looking quite nice to any number of clubs. Tanana has pitched at least six innings in 12 of 13 starts. His e.r.a. since the All-Star Game break is 3.81. "It should have been a done deal long ago," Tanana said. "I suppose I am the only one who believes in me." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 16, 1993, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Clubs Are Now Dialing For an Eager Tanana.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »