Dennis Eckersley earned his Hall of Fame credentials as a pitcher capable of dominating both the start and finish of games. Eckersley is one of only two major league pitchers to have both a 20-win season and a 50-save season. For his career, he had 197 wins and 390 saves pitching for the Oakland Athletics, the Boston Red Sox, the Cleveland Indians, the Chicago Cubs and the St. Louis Cardinals. As a member of the Athletics in 1992, Eckersley became the ninth pitcher to win the Cy Young and most Most Valuable Player awards in the same season. He helped the Athletics win four American League West titles, three A.L. pennants and the 1989 World Series. Eckersley was named the A.L. Championship Series most valuable player in 1988. He threw a no-hitter against the California Angels in 1977. He was inducted into the Hall of Fame in 2004. Eckersley, 58, is a baseball analyst for TBS. The network will televise the A.L. wild-card tiebreaker, the National League and A.L. wild-card games, up to 20 N.L. and A.L. division series games and the N.L. championship series. What teams will meet in the World Series and who is your choice to win it? Dodgers versus the Red Sox. I pick the Red Sox. What player do you think will have a big postseason? Clayton Kershaw of the Dodgers. I think his dominance will continue in the postseason.  Do you consider Mariano Rivera the greatest closer ever? Goose Gossage has said Rivera is the best modern-day closer although he didn’t pitch multiple innings as many relievers did in the past. Yes, I think he’s the greatest of all time. No one has or ever will have his dominance and consistency. He never had a bad year. What also puts him over the top is his postseason success. That will never be duplicated, ever. Would you advise Matt Harvey to have Tommy John surgery or try to rehab instead? He should have the surgery. He should fix it once and for all. You don’t want to have a lingering problem and risk losing or wasting more time. Should players who used performance-enhancing drugs make the Hall of Fame? No, but the larger jury of baseball writers will make the ultimate conclusion. Do you like the expanded use of replay? I like the expanded use of replays. You’d be surprised at the amount of plays that would have been changed. Let’s get it right. You started and closed. The Reds have thought about making Aroldis Chapman, their star closer, a starter. What are your thoughts? Don’t mess with success. His velocity may go down as a starter and make starting more difficult. Stick with closing. Who do think is a pitcher that will have a big year in 2014? Jose Fernandez with the Miami Marlins. He already had a great coming-out year, and I expect an even greater year next year. Game on the line, what hitter did you not want to face? George Brett. He was the greatest gap-to-gap hitter I ever faced. Your favorite memory? Catching the ball in my glove for the last out of the 1989 Bay Bridge World Series. It was extra special because it was my only World Series win. I was born and raised in the Bay Area, growing up a San Francisco Giants fan and then had the best years of my career with the Oakland A’s. Any regrets? Yes. Does the pitch to Kirk Gibson give you any hints of my regrets? If you were not a baseball player, what career would you have chosen? Hollywood (laughs). The New York Times reporters Tyler Kepner, Ben Shpigel, Jack Curry and Joe Lapointe, along with their Times colleagues, will bring baseball fans inside the run up to the 2008 baseball season with access, analysis and the latest updates from spring training. Tyler Kepner has covered the Yankees for The New York Times since 2002.  He joined The Times in 2000 as the Mets beat writer. A native of Philadelphia and a graduate of Vanderbilt University, Kepner has also covered the Angels for the Riverside Press-Enterprise in California and the Mariners for the Seattle Post-Intelligencer. He lives in Connecticut with his wife and their four children. Ben Shpigel has covered the Mets for The Times since 2005. Before then, he was a staff writer for the Dallas Morning News for two years. He also worked at The News Journal in Wilmington, Del., and for the Atlanta Journal-Constitution.  Shpigel received a bachelor's degree in English and journalism from Emory University and a master's degree in journalism from Columbia University. He and his wife, Rebecca, live in Manhattan. Jack Curry has covered baseball for the The New
York Times for 18 seasons.  Since 1998, he has served as the newspaper's national baseball writer.  Before that, Curry covered the Yankees from 1991-1997.  He was also the beat writer for the New Jersey Nets' 1990-1991 season and covered college basketball, college football and wrote for the Metro section. Born in Jersey City, N.J., Curry graduated from Fordham University. He and his wife, Pamela, live in New Jersey. 
			This blog’s regular features, including live game analysis, news and notes from Tyler Kepner, David Waldstein and others, can now be found on the baseball section of our website.Read more… 
			The free-agent second baseman Robinson Cano is reportedly still seeking a 10-year deal for $310 million, figures the Yankees are said to be unwilling to meet. Read more… 
			When asked what he has done thus far in the off-season, Mets General Manager Sandy Alderson responded with a joke. Read more… 
			The Mets maybe should, but most assuredly won’t, defy all expectations and make a legitimate bid to lure Robinson Cano away from the Yankees.Read more… 
			The Yankees are waiting to hear whether Curtis Granderson will accept their qualifying offer, and set their outfield for 2014, or test the market and send the Yankees chasing another free agent. Read more… Follow Advertisement