Advertisement By JOE LAPOINTE A month with the Rangers leaves so many impressions, some perhaps debatable, including these: THE LEADER: Mark Messier throws fewer body checks than ever before. Despite impressive statistics, his ineffective shifts are more than rare. But even when he seems exhausted and overworked, he pulls game-winning plays out of his back pocket the way a magician pulls quarters from your ear. It is impossible to understate the confidence he generates throughout the roster. These players revere him the way the Bruins did Bobby Orr. THE REPORTER: John Davidson's Olympic hiatus was good for CBS, good for him and good for hockey on the national level. But he was missed on the air of the MSG network and in the corridors near the locker rooms at Madison Square Garden. Aside from Tony Kubek, what other former athlete takes his reporting role so seriously and does it so well? THE FIGHTER: People who oppose fighting in hockey should hear the Garden crowd cheer and chant "Domi! Domi! Domi!" before and after Tie Domi throws punches. Some people go to the circus to see the clowns; some go to hockey to see the goons. No, that doesn't make it right. But when Domi is on the ice, he has everyone's attention, from the bench to the back rows. THE CUSTOMERS: Speaking of back rows: When the league's best team is averaging more than 1,000 unsold seats a game for the season, and when tickets are unsold at the door for a high-profile team like Chicago, it suggests that hockey seats, in this economy, are priced too high for this market. Teams in smaller markets, with worse records and less advertising, draw a better percentage of capacity. Advertisement THE GOALIE: Where would the Rangers be without goalie John Vanbiesbrouck, who has started the last 12 games while Mike Richter has been injured? Vanbiesbrouck shakes off trade rumors, the occasional soft goal and the odd bad game with a mental toughness that is extraordinary. Advertisement THE IMPORT: Like many European players in their first North American season, Sergei Nemchinov seems to be tiring from the grinding number of games. After scoring 23 goals and 17 assists in the team's first 53 games, he has had only one goal and no assists in the last 11. He remains a diligent worker, but it is Darren Turcotte, with 25 goals, who is emerging as the No. 2 center. Will Nemchinov move over to the "checking line" and Turcotte go alongside Mike Gartner? The Rangers' depth is only adequate at this position and don't be surprised to see a fresh face, perhaps Rob Zamuner, getting a longer look there in the next few weeks.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. THE FACILITY: There are minor league buildings with better ice surfaces and better press boxes than Madison Square Garden, but there are few pro teams in any sport with a better public relations department than the Rangers. Still, no amount of news-media savvy and sophistication can put a positive spin on unsafe work conditions for the players and a substandard work environment for the press. Hockey knockers in the news media who say this great sport is a bush-league business need not look any further than the most famous rink in the biggest city. THE PLAYOFFS: Despite their undeniable success this season, the Rangers are hardly guaranteed playoff success. They still don't match up well with the Washington Capitals, who have a 4-2 record against them this season after bouncing them from the first round in six games last spring. This time, the Rangers could last four rounds or leave in four games. Impossible? Look up last spring's records, which showed the Blackhawks first over all in the regular season and among the first to exit in the first round of the post-season. THE TRADING DEADLINE: General Manager Neil Smith now admits it was a mistake last spring to acquire Joe Kocur at the trading deadline and put pressure on him to be the enforcer. It damaged the chemistry of the team, as a major slump followed. Will that experience inhibit Smith at this year's March 10 trade deadline? THE FUTURE: The Rangers might not be the team that pries Eric Lindros from the Quebec Nordiques, but it won't be for lack of effort. Their interest is frequent and serious, backed with money and players. As a junior, Lindros displayed a bubble-gum card of Messier on his locker. They became friendly at the Canada Cup last September. Now that he is 19 years old and much maligned, Lindros needs someone such as Messier as a mentor. The Rangers will be among the finalists in the bidding. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 27, 1992, on Page B00012 of the National edition with the headline: ON PRO HOCKEY; Random Notes on Random Rangers.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »