Advertisement By JACK CURRY Their bullpen has been beleaguered and maligned since April and the Yankees have searched for months for a remedy. They might have found it last night when they obtained Lee Smith, the major league career saves leader, from St. Louis for a Class AAA reliever minutes before the midnight deadline for completing their post-season roster. The 35-year-old Smith, who has 398 career saves, will assume the closer role that had been held by Steve Farr for the past three seasons as the Yankees attempt to overtake the Blue Jays in the American League East by improving one of their serious weaknesses. Farr was placed on the 15-day disabled list last night because of inflammation of his right elbow. The Yankees said that did not influence their decision to acquire Smith. General Manager Gene Michael said the trade would have been made even if Farr were healthy. Smith, who leads the major leagues with 43 saves this season, was available because he can be a free agent after the season. The Cardinals received Rich Batchelor, a decent prospect who was 1-1 with six saves and a 2.67 earned run average at Class AAA Columbus. The 26-year old right-hander might have been one of the players the Yankees recalled when rosters expand to 40 today, but the Yankees were willing to deal him for the closer. 'We're Anxious to Have Him' "He's a veteran guy whose been in a lot of situations and handled them well," Manager Buck Showalter said of Smith. "We got guys who have played with him and against him, and they had good things to say. We're anxious to have him." Advertisement Because their bullpen has the highest e.r.a. in the league, the Yankees were discussing trade possibilities for relievers with three or four teams last night before they made the deal for Smith. Michael said he first talked about Smith in a telephone conversation with St. Louis General Manager Dal Maxvill about 10 days ago and claimed the talk did not get serious until 10:30 last night. Advertisement "Being in a pennant race, we feel fortunate to add Lee Smith to our bullpen," Michael said. "We feel we have to give something up at this time to get this needed help. We need help there. We think he can do the job." On a day in which the Yankees seriously tinkered with their roster, the Smith trade was obviously the transaction with the most impact. They also optioned pitchers Domingo Jean and Sterling Hitchcock to Class A Prince William so that both can be recalled on Sunday and summoned outfielder Gerald Williams and infielder Andy Stankiewicz from Class AAA Columbus so that both will be eligible for post-season play.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Because Farr and Mike Witt are on the disabled list, the Yankees could tinker with their post-season roster later in the month by adding Hitchcock or Jean. Farr's move is retroactive to Aug. 24, so he can return on Sept. 8, but he will definitely return to an inferior role. A Fast Enough Fastball Smith, 6 feet 6 inches and 270 pounds, has an above average fastball that has hit 92 miles an hour and also features a slider and a split-finger fastball. He has bad knees, but Michael said the Yankees scouted him, and his knees were fine. Smith was 2-4 with a 4.50 e.r.a. and had allowed 49 hits and 11 homers in 50 innings. Smith has also played for the Cubs and Red Sox during his 14-year career. Michael said the Yankees would not make any commitments to Smith beyond this season, but Showalter said: "If he pitches well, you never know where it may lead." Smith is making $2.66 million this season and is expected to arrive from St. Louis in time for tonight's game against the White Sox. "He's coming here and starting fresh," Showalter said. "We think he's capable of helping us win. That is why he's going to be here." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 1, 1993, on Page B00010 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Yankees Ordain Smith As Closer.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »