Advertisement By WILLIAM C. RHODEN and  The instant the ring announcer announced that Juan Hernandez of Cuba had outpointed David Reid in the evening's 10th bout, the frustration that had been building among many of the 3,500 fans at the Mississippi Coast Coliseum descended -- mostly from the bleachers. No one expected the United States team of young amateur boxers to actually beat Cuba in the dual match; they hadn't done that in 17 tries. But Reid's loss in the 147-pound division seemed a little like robbery. The Philadelphia-born fighter, who turned 20 earlier this week, had swarmed over Hernandez from start to finish and seemed to personify the United States' new approach to fighting the Cubans: aggression aggression, aggression. Reid had pummelled Hernandez with body shots that sent him to the canvas twice, once in the first round and again midway in the third. Boos, Jeers and 'U.S.A.!' Advertisement As the fighters stood at center ring waiting for the decision, the crowd applauded, not only for a fight well fought but also for what they thought was the United States' second victory. Advertisement When the crowd learned that the judges had awarded Hernandez a 4-1 decision, the reaction was immediate: first one cup sailed into the ring, then another and another. Boos and jeers rained down, even after the next fight began, and soon there were loud, angry chants of "U.S.A.! U.S.A.!" Afterward, Reid appeared exhausted, although not as upset as the fans. "I really believe truly that I won the fight," he said. "Two standing eight-counts, I thought I outworked him to the body. I thought I was scoring blows. I thought I had him." The Cubans, the reigning Olympic and world champions, won 11 of 12 fights this afternoon in the annual two-nation meeting, which Cuba has dominated since 1977, when it won the inaugural match, 7-4. Single Victory to Savor The lone United States victory today came in the second bout of the afternoon when 20-year-old Mark Burse defeated Daniel Regalado, 25, in the 119-pound classification.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Our game plan was to come out and press, press, press," Burse said. "Our whole motto this week was 'No Respect.' No respect for them at all. That's been a problem in the past. Other countries were scared of the Cubans. We just wanted to take it to them." Besides the Reid fight, there were two other close decisions that the Unites States lost. Albert Guardado lost in a split verdict to Maiko Romero (106 pounds) and Carlos Navarro lost a 3-2 decision to Waldemar Font (112 pounds). Reid's loss was the only truly questionable decision, though all it actually did was underline the peculiarities of an amateur scoring system that treats knockdowns as simply another punch and rewards craftiness and the crisp, clean shots to the head for which the Cubans are known. "You can't beat experience," said Al Mitchell, the United States coach. Despite the lopsided losses, Mitchell said he was generally pleased with his team, whose average age is 20. Advertisement If the Reid bout did nothing else, it proved that the United States trainers finally have discovered the secret to competing against the Cubans: don't back down. "The total idea was pressure," Mitchell said. "Keep pressure on so they don't get a chance to outthink our guys. The ones who did it gave the Cubans a good bout. When the pressure is on them, they fall apart like any natural person does." Cuba's Felix Savon, the three-time Olympic heavyweight champion who defeated Derrell Dixon in the evening's final bout, said: "They have a good young team. But we have a young team, too." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 26, 1993, on Page 8008007 of the National edition with the headline: BOXING; Biloxi Blues: U.S. Again Comes Up Short Against Cuba.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »