Advertisement By THOMAS GEORGE and  The transformation of the Houston Oilers from a trash-talking bunch to a more disciplined team whose talent would surface more readily has been Jack Pardee's mission since he replaced Jerry Glanville as head coach before last season. In Pardee's first year, the Oilers made strides toward more consistent performance. But make no mistake, they retain some of the most volatile, demonstrative and egotistical personalities in the National Football League. They also retain the ability to back every boast. Except for a puzzling loss at New England, the Oilers have swaggered through the 1991 season. They clubbed the Raiders, 47-17, in the season opener and then whipped Cincinnati, 30-7. They handled Kansas City, 17-7, and rolled over Denver last week, 42-14. When they meet the Jets today at Giants Stadium, quarterback Warren Moon can be expected to stretch the Jets' secondary with bullet passes toward nimble and fleet receivers, notably Haywood Jeffires, Ernest Givins and Drew Hill. Allen Pinkett and Lorenzo White offer a running game that has helped the Oilers' offense score 31.2 points per game. Advertisement It is on defense, however, that the Oilers have made the most significant progress. Their move last season from a 3-4 alignment to a 4-3 is finally being accepted by the players. So, too, are defensive coordinator Jim Eddy and his assistants, who arrived with plenty of college coaching experience but not much in the N.F.L. Advertisement "Last year, everybody was a little tentative about this defense," said Richard Johnson, the Oilers' seven-year cornerback from Wisconsin. "You had guys who were doing their own thing. We were used to flying around and playing 'The Unthinkable Defense.' And here these college coaches were changing technique and telling Pro Bowlers their version of the right way. Guys just weren't buying it. But one thing about that -- a lot of them are no longer here. "You've got to have a defense to win championships, and now we've got one." The Oilers' defense now appears to accept a football axiom: A group must come together as a unit to experience success as individuals. Retreating From the Edge Under Glanville, now the Atlanta Falcons' head coach, the Oiler defense lived on the edge. It employed multiple blitzing schemes and often left the cornerbacks in bump-and-run, man-to-man coverage. Left alone, the Oilers cornerbacks were often burned, with the defense allowing 48 touchdowns in 1989. Last season, that number was reduced to 30. Sure, the Oilers had made big plays with Glanville's gambling defense, but the risks and the results had proved too costly. Eddy, 52, who was the University of Houston's defensive coordinator under Pardee before joining the Oilers last season, wanted more pressure on the quarterback to come from his front four. It has. This season, 13 of the Oilers' 18 sacks have come from their defensive front, with William Fuller leading the way with six sacks and nine quarterback pressures. A trade for Chargers defensive end Lee Williams paid dividends until Williams broke his left forearm on Sept. 22 against New England. He should return later this month. Sean Jones has been an effective replacement and veteran tackles Ray Childress and Doug Smith have been strong, as have the backups at each position.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "We've got four trained pass rushers that are giving us a solid push up front," Eddy said. "That gives us seven guys to play combination coverages, but we're still an attacking defense. Our philosophy has been early in the game to get the pressure from the four, and if it's not enough, we increase the numbers to five, six, seven, whatever it takes to get to that quarterback. "We've got veteran guys who are now becoming comfortable with us and us with them. Their personalities are beginning to surface in the framework of this still being a business but allowing room for fun. It's an exciting atmosphere. It's for real." His Favorite Three Advertisement Eddy emphasized that the success on defense comes from the unit's cohesion. Nevertheless, he selected three players who are having Pro Bowl seasons. His choices: Fuller: "A solid defensive end against the run, in getting to the passer and in containing him. Most quarterbacks in this league are right-handed and tend to roll, sprint or dash to their right, at Fuller. When they do, he gets there." Al Smith: "When you play the 4-3, you've got to have a great middle linebacker. Al Smith leads the team in tackles with 43 and he is so well-prepared. He's the guy we signal all the calls in to. He is top-flight on and off the field and sets a standard in both areas for all of our players.' Cris Dishman: "This is a terrific cornerback who always had top-flight athletic ability but didn't direct it properly. He described it best himself when he said he used to take game films home and instead of studying them would tape movies over them. Now he's become a student of the game. He's got 31 tackles, three interceptions, two fumble recoveries, a forced fumble and six passes defended. He's on a roll." Fewer Stupid Penalties Pardee said that statistically the Oilers are not tops in the league on defense because they have often built large leads and have spent major parts of games in mop-up fashion. The Oilers, once known for late, and dumb, penalites, have reduced those, too. "We've stressed that," Pardee said, "and we realize we aren't so talented and so good that we can't go out there and beat ourselves." The offensive players believe the defense will continue to improve, and that would make Houston, along with Buffalo and Kansas City, the front-runners in the American Conference title chase. "Those guys are playing with a lot of pride and determination and playing like they want to be the No. 1 defense in the N.F.L.," Pinkett said. "They don't want to have to rely on us to win games. So far, they haven't." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 13, 1991, on Page 8008003 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL; It's Not All Offense For the Oilers Now.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »