Advertisement By JOE LAPOINTE and  First-round draft choice, first season, first regular-season game, first pass reception: Johnny Mitchell had the football, a 23-yard gain and -- ouch! -- a shoulder injury that kept him out of action for the next six weeks. "It was a very learningful experience," Mitchell said today at the Jets' camp, reflecting on his mishap of last Sept. 6. "My shoulder wasn't strong enough. I wasn't lifting weights properly. I was raw." He was a rookie tight end then, after only two seasons at Nebraska, probably a little too heavy, maybe a little too young and perhaps a little too confident. But his post-injury performance of 15 receptions in the last 10 games of the season was respectable and promising. This season, Mitchell came to camp with a slimmed-down 237 pounds on his 6-foot-3-inch frame, down from 263 last season. Lunch today was a yogurt shake, a peach and bottled water. Advertisement "A big lunch makes you too sluggish for the second practice of the day," Mitchell said. "Last year, I had undisciplined eating habits." Learning His Limits Advertisement During the afternoon practice today, Mitchell ran a pass route and seemed to limp as he pulled up. After that, for the final half-hour, he didn't participate in any plays. "No, it's nothing; I'm O.K.," Mitchell said. "It's been a long camp. It's something I've just got to work through." Paul Alexander, who coaches the tight ends, said Mitchell had turned an ankle and Alexander decided to rest him as a precaution. "He's been driving himself and pushing himself," Alexander said. "Everyone has sensed how very different he is this season. Last year was a tough adjustment. Johnny didn't understand what it was all about. Now, he knows how to play the game. He's been absolutely wonderful to work with." Mitchell said he had learned "to be a student of the game" and that he might not be the one-man gang he used to be in college. "I was more of a self person, I thought I could do it alone," he said. "I learned I just can't take over the game. Let the game come to me. This is a team game." In a Position to Gain His maturity, and the inclinations of key people around him, could make this a breakthrough season for Mitchell. His head coach, Bruce Coslet, is a former tight end who appreciates the value of the position. The new quarterback, Boomer Esiason, helped make Rodney Holman a Pro Bowl tight end in Cincinnati.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Johnny possesses wide-receiver speed," Esiason said. "And I'm someone who likes to use the tight end." In the Jets' exhibition opener against the Steelers in Pittsburgh last Saturday, Mitchell caught three passes for 35 yards, including a 21-yard gain over the deep middle. The way Esiason and Coslet have it figured, such plays will help Mitchell draw the attention of the safeties, allowing wide receivers to challenge cornerbacks one on one. Advertisement "This could help Rob Moore and Chris Burkett have big years," Esiason said. That would be fine with Mitchell, who said he'd wait his turn to touch the ball. "I want to be the man they depend on for the big play, the guy they go to when it's third down and 5," Mitchell said. "My first year really hurt me, but it helped me, too. Now, I'm spending extra time in the meeting room. I'm learning more and more about myself. I'm learning something new every day. When I get it all down under my belt, it's going to be something special." Toughened by Adversity Mitchell's life already is something special in some respects. In his 22 years, he has lived in rural Mississippi, inner-city Chicago, on a college campus in the Midwest, in suburban New York City and, now, in an apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. "It's made me a better person, I've learned to deal with all sorts of people and I have friends among all sorts of people," Mitchell said. "Sometimes in New York you deal with some phony people. When I do, I think back to where I came from, down home, it brings me back down." In Mississippi, he spent much of his youth with his grandparents, on a farm. They lived in a 150-year-old house. "It was pretty tough, man, it was very difficult," Mitchell said. He turned pro early, he said, to support his grandparents. He built them a house last year, right next to the old one. "But my grandmother passed away after they put the first stick in the ground," Mitchell said. His grandfather, Joe T. Mitchell, is disabled, and lives there now. EXTRA POINTS TERANCE MATHIS, a fourth-year, wide-receiver and kickoff-returner, has torn cartilage in his left knee and will miss three to four weeks. He is scheduled to undergo arthroscopic surgery Wednesday morning in Lenox Hill Hospital. The Jets hope he will be back in time for the regular-season opener on Sept. 5 against Denver. Mathis caught 22 passes and had three touchdowns last season, when he also averaged 17.6 yards as a kick returner. In the exhibition opener, he caught one pass, the 9-yard play that resulted in the Jets' only touchdown.  . . . MARVIN JONES, the rookie linebacker, suffered a sprained right thumb but practiced with it in a cast after X-rays proved negative. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 11, 1993, on Page B00011 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL; Mitchell Trims Down, Inflates Expectations.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »