Advertisement By JACK BELLMAY 23, 2014
 The 2014 World Cup begins on June 12, when Brazil plays Croatia in the opening match. Reporters and editors for The Times will count down to the start of the tournament each day with a short capsule of news and interesting tidbits. The players on Mexico’s World Cup team will be left to wonder “where’s the beef” after Coach Miguel Herrera barred them from consuming red meat leading up to and during the tournament, but he took a less austere stance on sexual relations. The decision to ban beef, Herrera said, was to avoid positive doping tests from meat contaminated with the performance-enhancing drug clenbuterol. Nearly three years ago, the majority of players on Mexico’s squad at the FIFA U-17 World Cup tested positive for the drug. The drug has been used widely in Mexico to fatten cattle. As was reported this week, Herrera said that “our training center has determined, based on what happened in the past, that red meat shouldn’t be eaten.” Advertisement Fair enough. The question of whether sex before a soccer game, or any athletic competition, has an impact on players’ performance on the field has long been a topic of discussion. Some claim that the assertion that sex before competition diminishes competence on the field is a myth. Herrera is not so sure, though he said he would not issue a fiat against conjugal visits.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “I am not thinking about prohibiting sex nor that they would have it,” Herrera told a news conference Wednesday. “I am thinking about football and I hope that the boys are thinking about football because nobody has died from practicing abstinence for 40 days. Some people are virgins until marriage and they are 20 or 25 years old. So, please, nobody will die for 40 days.” Advertisement Surely, no one will die, but boys will be boys. “If you cross a bikini and you see it and that’s all, it’s no big deal,” he said. “We will be in front of the beach. It’s impossible not to cross a bikini in Brazil, but looking doesn’t hurt.” Different coaches have different opinions. Luiz Felipe Scolari, the coach of Brazil, the host nation, has told his players they should concentrate on “normal sex,” whatever that might be, and not be inclined to engage in bedroom gymnastics. In Brazil, Mexico is in Group A with Cameroon (in Natal on June 13), Brazil (in Fortaleza on June 17) and Croatia (in Recife on June 23). We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »