Advertisement By JENNIFER FREY and  The double sessions don't start until next week, when the New York Rangers set up training camp in Glens Falls, N.Y. This week in London, though, the team isn't exactly on a sightseeing tour. Scheduled to play exhibition games against the Toronto Maple Leafs at Wembley Stadium on Saturday and Sunday, the Rangers are using this six-day trip to England to rebuild morale after a disappointing 1992-93 season, and to get used to Mike Keenan, the new head coach. After just two full practices, Keenan isn't ready to make too many judgments about player potential. But it is clear from conversations over the past few days that he arrived in training camp with a lot of issues on his mind: MOST NOTABLE ABSENCE Jeff Beukeboom. The veteran defenseman is without a contract and did not show up for the team's trip to London. Keenan, faced with a team full of offensive defensemen, is still hoping that the Rangers manage to get Beukeboom's muscle into camp and his 6-foot-4-inch, 215-pound body alongside Brian Leetch for what has been a productive pairing in the past. But Beukeboom has apparently not been trying very hard to sign, and the Rangers are not overly optimistic when it comes to their chances of getting him in camp soon. MOST TO GAIN Joby Messier. The 23-year-old defenseman was all but anonymous in 11 appearances for the Rangers last season, scoring zero points and logging six penalty minutes. But he also had a team-leading plus-59 rating for Binghamton, the Rangers' minor league squad, and with Beukeboom home in a contract dispute, Messier is the biggest defenseman on the roster save 34-year-old Jay Wells. Keenan is hoping Messier, a 6-1, 207-pound defensive-style player, will earn his way into the Rangers' defensive picture with a strong training camp. It doesn't hurt matters, either, that Messier showed up this week in peak physical condition and passed Keenan's fitness tests with flying colors. MOST TO LOSE Sergei Zubov. When Leetch was sidelined with injuries last season, Zubov, then a rookie, took over as the Rangers' defensive playmaker -- and power-play point man -- and earned raves for his puck-handling skills. But with both Leetch and James Patrick healthy this fall, and with the addition of Doug Lidster (another offensive-style defenseman), there seems to be limited room for Zubov in Keenan's defensive plans. It seems apparent that Zubov had better forget last season's performance and plan to show Keenan something in camp if he wants to be one of the new coach's top six defensemen. Advertisement MOST TO PROVE Mike Richter. When the Rangers traded John Vanbiesbrouck shortly before the expansion draft, they brought an end to the longstanding Richter-Vanbiesbrouck rivalry in goal and appeared finally to have picked Richter as their No. 1. But Richter's dreadful 1992-93 season has not escaped Keenan's attention; in fact, the coach has gone so far as to say that Richter is unproven and refuses to classify him as the front-runner in the goaltending race. Glenn Healy is solid and experienced and certainly gives Keenan someone to turn to should Richter not play up to his capabilities. Still, the organization is hoping that Richter, a former Vezina Trophy finalist, will have a rebirth.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. BATTLE TO WATCH Richter-Vanbiesbrouck is over, Richter-Healy isn't half as exciting, and Tie Domi is no longer around to spice things up with a few intrateam fights. But it will be fun to see if any Keenan-Kovalev fireworks heat up training camp. Keenan has heard raves when it comes to the talents of Aleksei Kovalev, the young Russian star. But Kovalev, who lacks maturity, managed to severely try the patience of both Roger Neilson and Ron Smith last season, and neither of those coaches are known for losing their tempers. If Kovalev hasn't grown up over the summer, how long will it take before he drives Iron Mike mad? COMEBACK CANDIDATES Leetch and Mark Messier. Leetch is driven to erase the memories of 1992-93, when he spent the bulk of the season on the sidelines -- first with nerve damage to his neck and shoulder, then with an ankle injury. It was enough to drive Leetch into a depression last spring, and after working out his frustration on roller blades in Central Park all summer, he arrived in camp as the Rangers' most aerobically fit player. Messier, meanwhile, had his season judged not by points (he had 91) but by team performance, and the Rangers' last-place finish has weighed most heavily upon him. He went from hero to goat in the space of one season and appears determined to reach the top of the hill once again.  SLAP SHOTS Advertisement General Manager NEIL SMITH announced Thursday that the club signed right wing DIMITRI STAROSTENKO from CKSA Moscow of the Soviet Elite league. . . . As expected, the Rangers have acquired defenseman ALEKSANDR KARPOVTSEV from the Quebec Nordiques for defenseman MIKE HURLBUT. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 10, 1993, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; Rangers Have a Question: Is Big Ben a Defenseman?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »