Advertisement By ALEX YANNIS and  The Devils had a good explanation for the rather uninspired performance in their 4-1 victory over Hartford here this afternoon: The Rangers come calling Sunday. It was obvious from the way the Devils played against the Whalers that they were conserving energy for the Rangers, their cross-river rivals, who have the best record in the league (37-18-3). "They're sitting up there in first place, and we're just the hunter right now," Devils Coach Tom McVie said of the Rangers, who are 9-1-2 in their last 12 games after their 9-2 rout of the Islanders on Friday. With twice as many victories than losses, the Rangers are atop the Patrick Division, 10 points ahead of the third-place Devils. The Rangers also have the most points in the league, 77. Advertisement Although today's victory was the fourth in a row for the Devils (30-18-7), the way they have performed in those four games is not anywhere near what they will need to be successful against the Rangers. 'Found a Way to Win' Advertisement "We didn't play exceptionally well on the road and the last two games here, but we found a way to win," McVie said. "But I know our intensity level will have to go up against the Rangers." Chris Terreri's goaltending stole the games at Boston and Quebec, and the Devils played barely well enough against Vancouver on Thursday for Terreri's sixth consecutive victory. The Devils performed just well enough against the Whalers (16-28-10) this afternoon to give Craig Billington his first victory in four starts. Billington's lone blemish today was Yvon Corriveau's power-play goal early in the third after the Devils had built a 3-0 lead. Goals by Randy McKay, Kevin Todd and Claude Lemieux had handed a 3-0 lead to the Devils, who sealed their victory on Doug Brown's empty-netter with 45 seconds left.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The victory was the Devils' 30th of the season. The earliest they had reached the 30-victory mark before was in the 69th game four seasons ago. New Jersey is 12 games over .500 for the first time in the club's history. "We know we'll have to come out and play more physical tomorrow than we played today," McKay said. The Devils were rather passive for this game, marked by no fighting and only 28 minutes in penalties, 14 by each team. At the first intermission, most of the sellout crowd was yawning on the way to the concession stands. But the Devils came out with plenty of spark for the second period, not even waiting for all of the spectators to return to their seats. McKay opened the scoring with his ninth goal of the season, 1 minute 38 seconds into the period. Brown started the scoring play with a pass to Laurie Boschman, who relayed the puck to McKay in the slot. McKay went straight for the goal and beat Peter Sidorkiewicz right under the left corner. Advertisement The Devils had a 2-0 lead just over two minutes later, when Claude Vilgrain gave the puck to Todd streaking down the left side. When he reached a stride inside the left circle, Todd fired a slap shot, which Sidorkiewicz got a piece of. But the shot had plenty of velocity, and went under Sidorkiewicz's glove for Todd's 15th of the season and second in two games. Lemieux extended the lead to three goals with his 33d of the season on a simple backhander in front after a pass from Valery Zelepukin, at 10:16, before Corriveau's goal. SLAP SHOTS TROY MALLETTE, the physical wing of the Devils who has missed four games with a sprained right ankle, will most likely play against the Rangers. . . . The Devils are 9-2-1 against Adams Division teams. Their 23 victories outside the Patrick Division this season are already more than in full seasons in the past. . . . The Devils will have to be more effective on the power play to have any chance against the Rangers. They failed in five attempts against the Whalers and are 1 for 19 in their last five games. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 16, 1992, on Page 8008001 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; Devils Win 30th With Rangers Lurking in Shadows.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »