Advertisement By TIMOTHY W. SMITH and  Maybe it's because they practically waltzed through the season with a 14-2 record or perhaps because they were in the Super Bowl last year, but the atmosphere around the Bills' locker room leading to Sunday's American Football Conference championship game against Denver is decidedly ho-hum. The usual buzz that surrounds a team going into a championship game is missing. There's little loud chatter among the players, who are taking a low-key, businesslike approach to the game. Center Kent Hull said the team is simply confident. "We've had pressure on us to win all year long," Hull said. "We're used to pressure. I think this team expects to win every time we go out." Bills 5-1 in Playoffs at Home The Bills are heavy favorites to beat the Broncos Sunday and they are 5-1 in playoff games at home. Buffalo's last playoff loss at home was against the Boston Patriots of the old American Football League in 1963. Its last three playoff victories at Rich Stadium have come by an average score of 44 points. Advertisement Buffalo players said they weren't looking past Denver and ahead to a possible return to the Super Bowl, which they lost last year to the Giants after kicker Scott Norwood missed a field goal with a few seconds to play. Advertisement Defensive end Bruce Smith said concentrating on the game at hand has been the key to the team's success this year.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Everybody kept the same type attitude as last year and just stayed focused on the game that we're playing," Smith said. "Three or four years ago we would look at our schedule and say, 'Here are three or four teams that should be automatic wins. We don't do that anymore.' " The Bills and the Broncos played last on Sept. 30, 1990 in what some Buffalo players called the craziest game they have ever played. The Broncos were leading by 21-9 with 10 minutes 30 seconds to play. In 77 seconds, the Bills scored a touchdown on a blocked field goal, scored a touchdown on an interception return, and then scored a touchdown on a 2-yard run after the Denver quarterback, John Elway, fumbled the ball at the Broncos' 2-yard line. Buffalo won the game, 29-28. The Bills' running back, Thurman Thomas, said that improbable victory set the tone for the rest of the season and helped propel Buffalo into Super Bowl XXV. "It turned our whole season around," Thomas said. "Without that game we would have really been down on ourselves, because we really didn't play well at all, but we were lucky enough to win it at the end." EXTRA POINTS BRUCE SMITH, who has been hampered with a sore knee, is not listed on the team's injury report. Coach MARV LEVY said he expected Smith to start against the Broncos on Sunday. Smith said Wednesday that the team is better off with him in the lineup, even if he's not 100 percent. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 10, 1992, on Page B00010 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL; Bills Look At Playoff Without Fanfare.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »