Advertisement By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY and  The open book in Jim Courier's lap was "Maybe the Moon" by Armistead Maupin. The open question was why was Courier reading in the middle of a tennis match? "Just felt like doing it," said Courier, who thumbed his way through Maupin's novel on changeovers during tonight's match against Andrei Medvedev in the ATP Tour World Championship, the season-ending, eight-man round-robin tournament. "It is an interesting book." Courier will have plenty of time to finish the novel. His 6-3, 1-6, 7-6 (7-4) loss to the Ukrainian teen-ager -- a loss in which he squandered four match points -- means that he has no chance to advance to Saturday's semifinals. It also means Michael Stich could move past Courier to No. 2 in the year-end ranking if he is undefeated in this tournament. Stich stayed unbeaten today by outlasting Michael Chang, 4-6, 7-6 (7-3), 6-2. So did Pete Sampras, the world's top-ranked player, who beat Goran Ivanisevic, 6-3, 4-6, 6-2. Advertisement Courier has reached a low since winning the United States Men's Hardcourt Championships in Indianapolis in August, going 4-6 in six tournaments and failing to reach a quarterfinal. A finalist here the last two years, Courier lost, 6-4, 6-0, to Chang on Tuesday. Against Medvedev, he was serving for the match at 5-3, 40-0. But nobody wanted to talk about that when he lost after midnight. The conversation focused on the book. Advertisement Medvedev was not about to question Courier's decision to read. "It depends what kind of book," he said. "For me, I would read the book of Rod Laver, or Jimmy Connors or Brad Gilbert." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 18, 1993, on Page B00027 of the National edition with the headline: TENNIS; In Defeat, Courier Turns a Page.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »