Advertisement  HOCKEY  3 Points for LaFontaine Pat LaFontaine, traded by the Islanders to the Buffalo Sabres on Friday and who signed a multiyear contract with his new team hours before game time last night, scored one goal and assisted on two others to lead the Sabres to a 5-1 victory over the Hartford Whalers in Buffalo. LaFontaine opened the scoring with a power-play goal at 19 minutes 17 seconds of the first period, earning a standing ovation. He also assisted on Dave Andreychuk's second-period goal and a third-period score by Aleksandr Mogilny. (AP) TENNIS  Becker Ends Drought  Boris Becker ended a nine-month victory drought yesterday, outlasting Stefan Edberg in a serve-and-volley duel to win the Stockholm Open. Becker won, 3-6, 6-4, 1-6, 6-2, 6-2, for his second straight triumph at Stockholm. The second-ranked German, who trounced Edberg in last year's final, won his first tournament since the Australian Open in January. Edberg, who had a 21-match winning streak that started with the United States Open, dropped five out of his last six service games. Becker, playing only his second tournament after the United States Open, where he suffered a thigh injury, broke Edberg at love in the final game, ending the match with a perfect lob. (AP) Graf Defeats Garrison: Steffi Graf won 9 of the last 10 games to beat Zina Garrison, 5-7, 6-4, 6-1, in the final of the indoor tournament in Brighton, England. The victory earned the world's second-ranked female player her seventh title of the year and her fifth in the Brighton event. After winning the first set, Garrison broke for a 4-3 lead in the second. But Graf responded by winning six straight games to even the match at one set apiece and take a 3-0 lead in the deciding set.(AP) GOLF  Fast Finish for Allem  Fulton Allem of South Africa made up seven strokes yesterday with a back nine that featured five birdies and emerged from the pack to win the Independent Insurance Agents Open by one shot over Tom Kite, Billy Ray Brown and Mike Hulbert in The Woodlands, Tex. Allem had a final-round 66 to take advantage of stumbles by Brown and tour rookie Jeff Maggert -- who was the leader after each of the first three rounds -- while holding off a charge by Kite. Kite hit the flag on his second shot on the par-4 18th hole. His ball bounced within inches of the cup and rolled about 10 feet away. Then he missed the putt that would have sent the tournament to a playoff. It was the first American tour victory for the 34-year-old Allem, who now plays out of Heathrow, Fla. (AP) Brodie Finally Wins His First: John Brodie, who made a smooth transition from National Football League quarterback to television analyst to professional golfer, needed only a 4-inch birdie putt on the first playoff hole to beat Chi Chi Rodriguez and George Archer for his first Senior PGA Tour title, the Security Pacific Senior Classic. The victory in Los Angeles, which was worth $75,000, ended a drought that covered 7 seasons and 157 tournaments on the 50-and-over circuit for Brodie, 56, who turned pro in 1961 but never played in a regular tour event. Brodie had a final-round 68 for a 54-hole total of 13-under-par 200 over the 6,307-yard Rancho Park municipal course.(AP) Davis Holds Off Faldo to Win: Rodger Davis of Australia fought off a strong bid by Nick Faldo of England yesterday and won the Volvo Masters tournament in Sotogrande, Spain, by one shot. Faldo closed with a three-under-par 68, but came up short as Davis held on with a par 71. (AP) RUGBY  Australia in Title Game  Australia defeated New Zealand, 16-6, yesterday in Dublin in the World Cup semifinals. Australia will face England for the championship Saturday at Twickenham, England. (AP) DOG SHOW  The Top Dog, Again  The top winning Pekingese in the country, Ch. Jo-Li Wind in the Willows, yesterday was named best at the 59th annual Progressive Dog Club show at the Days Inn in Manhattan. The event is the only one in the East held only for toy breeds. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 28, 1991, on Page C00002 of the National edition with the headline: RESULTS PLUS.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »