Advertisement By CHARLIE NOBLES and  It seemed somehow grotesquely apropos that on the Mets' most glorious night of 1993 -- their first four-game winning streak of the season -- there was some bad news. Catcher Todd Hundley, in making a run-saving tag of Florida Marlins catcher Bob Natal at the plate in the third inning, suffered a nondisplaced fracture of a bone in his left wrist. The wrist was put in a temporary sling, and Hundley will be examined in New York Tuesday. He is expected to wear a cast for six weeks. Once the Mets scored three runs in the first inning against the Marlins, Jay Horwitz, the Mets' publicist, began to squirm in his press box seat, aware of what might lie ahead. Horwitz had promised in July, with the Mets in a woeful tailspin, that he would allow his head to be shaved should they win four games in a row. And tonight, with the season's end only two games away, it happened. After winning three straight from St. Louis at Shea Stadium, the Mets breezed by the Marlins, 4-1, before 37,083 fans at Joe Robbie Stadium. 'I Was Ready' Advertisement Afterward, Horwitz marched down to the team's clubhouse like the proverbial sacrificial lamb. But Manager Dallas Green spared him, mainly because the players who had most wanted to shave Horwitz's head are all gone with injuries. Advertisement "I was ready," Horwitz said. "I'm a man of my word." On the field, Eddie Murray drove in two first-inning runs with a double and then scored on Jeff Kent's single to give right-hander Dave Telgheder a lead he never lost. The victory was the third straight for Telgheder, who surrendered four hits and three walks in eight shutout innings. Mike Maddux allowed two hits and a run in the ninth.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "I've been staying away from the middle of the plate and not giving in to the hitters as much," Telgheder said of his recent success. Gallagher Joins the Crowd New York had something else to celebrate tonight. Dave Gallagher singled in the ninth, becoming the fourth Mets pinch-hitter to get at least 10 pinch-hits this season. That's a major league record. Green didn't quite know how to explain the team's hot streak, which still left the Mets' record anemic at 57-103. He did know one thing: "I was out of speeches a long time ago," he said. "It's pretty tough to beat a dead horse." The dead horse exhibited great defense in the third inning. With Natal on third base and one out, Walt Weiss hit a line drive to right fielder Jeromy Burnitz, whose on-target throw, coupled with Hundley's great block of the plate, produced something for the Mets' highlight film. Hundley said Natal's knee hit his wrist. "I just got my hand caught up beneath his legs," Hundley said. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 2, 1993, on Page 1001033 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; 4 Straight, But Aide For Mets Keeps Hair.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »