Advertisement  Keeping up with Natalya Zvereva on the courts is tougher than tracking Tom Cruise or Alec Baldwin in the stands. Zvereva advanced to the quarterfinals after beating Maria Jose Gaidano, 6-0, 6-2, yesterday morning on the Grandstand Court. Then she raced over to Court 7 about two hours later to play in the mixed doubles quarterfinals with Mark Kratzmann. On Sunday, Zvereva was on Court 18, where she and Gigi Fernandez advanced to the quarterfinals of the women's doubles. It's been like this for Zvereva since the Open began a week ago. Yesterday, something had to give with all that activity. In the mixed doubles, the fifth-seeded team of Kathy Rinaldi and Patrick Galbraith beat the third-seeded team of Zvereva and Kratzmann, 6-3, 5-7, 6-3. Advertisement But Zvereva, 22, said that all the running around has helped her play better. "It just helps me," said the Belarussian. "Even if I play mixed and doubles and singles in the tournament, I'd probably be over all a little bit tired, but it gives me confidence because I play more and more matches. Especially in mixed, because I don't have any kind of pressure in mixed. You go out and you swing and that gives you confidence." Advertisement Zvereva is ranked 25th in singles, although she was ranked as high as No. 6 in 1988. She and Fernandez are ranked No. 1 in doubles, and it appears that doubles play is Zvereva's priority. "I don't even know who I am playing in the next round right now," she said after her singles victory yesterday, which put her against second-seeded Arantxa Sanchez Vicario in the quarterfinals. "I think I have done enough for my tennis career. I was No. 6 in the world once, that is enough already. I'd like to be a great player, but I also know how much it takes and that is kind of hard."  An Advancing Junior Paul Goldstein of Rockville, Md., advanced to the second round of the juniors yesterday by coming back to defeat Nir Welgreen of Israel, 2-6, 6-4, 6-4. Goldstein, the boys' 18 national champion, broke Welgreen's serve in the seventh game of the third set to go ahead, 4-3. Goldstein played this match without his high school friends watching from the stands. Last week, the 17-year-old Goldstein, as a wild card in the main draw, lost to Karsten Braasch of Germany on the same court where he played Welgreen. Braasch went as far as the third round before losing to Andrei Medvedev, but Goldstein wasn't all that thrilled with his showing.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "I usually don't talk about tennis as much with my friends at school, or let them see me practice and stuff," said Goldstein, who will be a senior at Sidwell Friends School in Washington. "But it was my first Open, my first major tournament, so about 10 of them drove or took the train to see me play. Or get killed." Goldstein lost to Braasch easily in straight sets, but that experience seemed to help yesterday. He stayed calm despite dropping the first set, partly because of unforced errors. Goldstein -- who says he doesn't know Chelsea Clinton, who also attends Sidwell -- expects to attend college next fall. He is applying to Duke, U.C.L.A., Harvard, North Carolina and Stanford. We Knew a Maleeva Would Win Katerina Maleeva defeated her 18-year-old sister, 10th-seeded Magdalena, 6-2, 6-3, yesterday on the Grandstand Court. Katerina won the last point with an ace and walked around the net to hug her sister, and kept checking on her as the two packed their bags. Advertisement "This victory doesn't mean anything to me," said the 24-year-old Katerina, who is unseeded this year. "All it means is that I'm in the quarters and she's not. I wish we both could be." The two were asked if they were tired of the family questions, and in unison, they said yes. "When you have three sisters in the top 20, obviously you're going to play each other," Katerina said. "It's the price you pay. There is no sibling rivalry between us. You have to understand that." The oldest sister, 26-year-old Manuela Maleeva-Fragniere, seeded 11th, is already in the quarterfinals, where she will meet Kimiko Date . In the juniors yesterday, 12th-seeded Amanda Basica of Rolling Hills, Calif., beat Kaori Kuki of Japan, 6-1, 6-1, in the first round. Her sister, Amber, didn't fare as well, losing to Julie Scott of Austin, Tex., 6-1, 6-1. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 7, 1993, on Page B00012 of the National edition with the headline: U.S. OPEN '93: NOTEBOOK; Zvereva Keeps Busy Around the Courts.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »