Advertisement 
Extra Bases  By                     
 TYLER KEPNER
 
MAY 17, 2014
 Never has competitive balance come into sharper focus than it did early last October, when Yankee Stadium was dark and PNC Park in Pittsburgh crackled with postseason excitement. The teams, who play a doubleheader in the Bronx on Sunday, had been on opposite tracks for two decades. Now, Pittsburgh is not much different than New York. “We’ve shifted our fans’ mind-set from hoping to be .500 to expecting to be in the playoffs,” said Neal Huntington, the Pirates’ general manager. “And that’s fantastic, it means we’ve done some good things, but it also means we’ve got to continue to do those good things to stay competitive and to stay in a position to get into the postseason. “Right now, we’ve got to do some things to climb back into that discussion, and we probably need to start doing them pretty soon.” The Pirates, who won the National League wild-card game last fall before losing a five-game division series to St. Louis, entered the weekend with a 17-23 record. Only two N.L. teams, the moribund Chicago Cubs and Arizona Diamondbacks, were worse. Advertisement It followed a winter of relative inactivity for the Pirates, who lost starter A. J. Burnett and their August lineup additions, Marlon Byrd and Justin Morneau, to free agency. Their primary additions have been relatively underwhelming: starter Edinson Volquez and, in a trade with the Mets last month, first baseman Ike Davis. Advertisement Even so, the Pirates have been basically the same as last year in their run production and in the effectiveness of their bullpen. But a rotation that ranked sixth in the majors in earned run average last season, at 3.50, ranked 26th heading into the weekend, at 4.39. The starters’ record was an unsightly 4-17. “We’ve given up a lot more home runs as a pitching staff, to date, than we did a year ago,” Huntington said. “Some of that is not making great pitches; some of that, according to the metrics guys, will normalize. But we’ve got to put ourselves in position to make better pitches — to pitch ahead in the count, to get early-count contact and then to bury guys when we have a chance to put them away.” The Pirates allowed a major-league-low 101 home runs last season. Through 40 games this season, they had already surrendered 40. Burnett gave up just 11 in 30 starts last year, but now he pitches for Philadelphia, having signed a two-year, $22.5 million deal in free agency. The Pirates did not make a qualifying offer and thus received no compensatory draft pick, but Huntington said he had no regrets. “We would still do that again today,” he said. Burnett pitched well for the Pirates but was skipped in the decisive playoff game for the rookie Gerrit Cole, who lost to the Cardinals’ Adam Wainwright. Cole, 23, is 3-3 with a 3.76 E.R.A. and will face the Yankees on Sunday. The Yankees drafted Cole, who grew up rooting for them in California, in the first round of the 2008 draft. Cole refused to consider an offer from the Yankees, enrolled at U.C.L.A. and went first over all in 2011. “It’s amazing to think he still has less than a year of major league exposure,” said Huntington, who praised Cole for his competitiveness. “He has all the potential in the world to be a great pitcher.” Potential is still important for the Pirates, who did not suddenly change their operating strategy just because they ended their notorious 20-year streak of losing seasons. Their payroll was about $72 million on opening day — the most in their history, but only some $5 million more than in 2013. And they still take a careful approach with their top prospects.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Cole did not make his debut until mid-June last season, like Wil Myers of the Tampa Bay Rays. Low-payroll teams like the Pirates and the Rays sometimes wait until June to promote their best prospects, which delays their eligibility for salary arbitration. Advertisement Outfielder Gregory Polanco, who started this season ranked No. 10 overall on Baseball America’s top prospect list, entered the weekend hitting .370, with a 1.040 on-base plus slugging percentage, for Class AAA Indianapolis. Huntington said Polanco, a left-handed hitter who is 22, made quicker progress than the Pirates had expected. He acknowledged that some fans were frustrated he was still in the minors. “We’re a process-driven organization,” Huntington said, “and while he’s doing some things very well to get the results he’s getting, work remains to refine him as a player. We’re going to let history be a little bit of our guide, and history dictates that those who have the smoothest transition are those who have had significant minor league experience. Now, there are exceptions, but in our minds, given our own history, our belief is that our patience will be rewarded by having a player who’s more able to help us in a bigger way — quicker — if we’re able to keep the big picture in mind.” As important as that big picture is, the snapshot of last Oct. 1, when the Pirates advanced in the playoffs in the most captivating moment of the baseball season, is indelible. Huntington said it continually drives him, even as his team struggles to earn its way back. “We show up every day hoping to repeat that special environment,” he said. “I don’t know if we ever will, but we want to come as close to it as we can.”  A Power Gap  When the Colorado Rockies visited the Kansas City Royals last week, it matched the team with the most home runs against the team with the fewest. The quick visit did not reveal much — the Royals won both games, hitting two home runs to the Rockies’ one — but the teams entered the weekend separated by a staggering 40 homers for the season. The Rockies had 58 and the Royals just 18. Lack of power is nothing new for the Royals, who play at spacious Kauffman Stadium. Last year’s team ranked last in the American League in home runs, with 112, and the Royals’ single-season franchise record has been frozen at 36 since 1985, when Steve Balboni hit that many to help the team to its only World Series title. Since that year, there have been 271 instances of a player hitting at least 37 homers in a season. The list includes luminaries like Barry Bonds, Ken Griffey Jr. and Albert Pujols, and one-year wonders like Rich Aurilia, Jay Bell and Matt Stairs. But it does not include any Royals. The Royals, at least, are not alone in their futility. The Minnesota Twins have not had a player exceed the Balboni Line in that time, either. The last Twins player with at least 37 homers in a season was Harmon Killebrew, a Hall of Famer. Killebrew also played for the Royals, in 1975 — but, alas, he hit only 14 home runs and retired. A version of this article appears in print on May 18, 2014, on Page SP2 of the New York edition with the headline: Taste of Postseason Doesn’t Sway Pirates From Their Careful Path.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »