Advertisement By MICHAEL MARTINEZ and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES In the minutes that followed the game, Stu Jackson almost seemed to be battling himself. He stood in the hallway outside the Knicks' dressing room, uncertain whether to dismiss the night as an occupational hazard or to allow his anger to show. He did a little of both after the Knicks' mystifing 128-121 loss tonight to the Miami Heat. ''Maybe,'' he said, ''we're just a target for them.'' 24-Point Bulge But this was no routine loss for the Knicks. They played a sloppy first period, they fell behind by 17 points at the half and then they drifted away by the third quarter when the Heat rushed to a 76-52 lead. Not even a late charge by the Knicks, which brought them within 10 points in the final two minutes, made the night palatable. ''We didn't do the job,'' said Mark Jackson, the Knick guard, who had 27 points, including 12 on four 3-point field goals. ''To give up 128 points to a team that doesn't even average 100 says something about our effort.'' Advertisement Stu Jackson said: ''We didn't play any semblance of the game we're capable of. There were major breakdowns all the way around. We dug a hole for ourselves and it was one we couldn't get out of.'' Advertisement There was little opportunity for the Knicks to become factors in the game, which ended an eight-game losing streak for Miami. The Heat scored 10 unanswered points in the first four minutes and pushed its advantage to 18, 38-20, late in the period. Rony Seikaly hit his first eight shots, and it became an exercise in futility after that. Later, when the Knicks tried to recover, Sherman Douglas kept the Heat ahead. In one third-period juncture, the rookie guard drove the length of the court, put up a short shot and converted the free throw after he was fouled by Johnny Newman. Then, after a Knick miss, he fed Glen Rice for a resounding dunk. Stu Jackson called for a 20-second timeout, but by then it was 75-52. Another Surge Douglas later scored 10 straight points, and by the end of the third quarter, the Heat, who average 98.1 points a game, had 96.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Douglas finished with 28 points and 12 assists and said later, ''I've been playing more relaxed offensively, and I've been playing in sync because I feel more comfortable in the league.'' It was Douglas who kept the Heat's fast break functioning well, feeding his teammates underneath for high-percentage baskets. Miami shot 62 percent from the field, and four players - Douglas, Seikaly, Kevin Edwards and Tellis Frank - each had at least 20. ''They lost 10 in a row,'' Stu Jackson said, inaccurately, ''but they played like they won 10 in a row.'' Patrick Ewing, who had 24 points and 15 rebounds, said these losses sometimes happen. ''There's concern that we lost,'' he said, ''but that's the way it is. Sometimes you have it, sometimes you don't.'' It happens, and Stu Jackson doesn't like it. After saying his team played poorly at both the offensive and defensive end, he said: ''It was just one of those nights. But the thing that concerns me is that we had one of these games the other night in Houston. It's either feast or famine. We're either on top of our game or we have a night like this.'' Advertisement Did the Knicks simply take the Heat too lightly? Were they looking ahead to Sunday's game against the Detroit Pistons at the Garden? Jackson did not know. In the end, he wanted to forget this one. ''It's time to move on,'' he said, finally looking ahead. ''It's time to move on to Detroit. We can't dwell on this.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 24, 1990, on Page 1001045 of the National edition with the headline: Knicks Baffled By Heat.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »