Advertisement  RON REICH barked out instructions to his three teammates as Top of the Line went through its team precision routine. The double lines of the stunt kites crossed, uncrossed and crossed again as the kites flew in formation, following each other through loops, figure-8's and square turns, and then instantaneously broke ranks, looped in different directions and reformed a new line with a new direction. ''Imagine flying with the Blue Angels, doing barrel rolls and splits,'' said Don Taber, a member of the Top of the Line team as well as the designer of the kites it flies and the owner of the eponymous company that builds the kites and sponsors the team. ''Get out of the plane, take up two lines, and you're there.'' The two lines, usually 100 feet long, allow control over the direction that the stunt kite flies. As in such sports as figure skating and gymnastics, precision and artistry determine the scoring. In the sport of stunt-kite flying, which celebrated the fifth annual East Coast championships in Wildwood, N.J., recently, Top of the Line is no misnomer. The team has won the open team precision competition every year at the event, which the organizers say is the biggest and oldest stunt-kite tournament in the world. Reich is perhaps the most successful individual stunt-kite flier in the country; his teammates, Pamela Kirk and Eric Streed, are not far behind. Advertisement After their performance the team lingered, as they usually do, to watch their competition. The difference, this time, was that the competition had a chance to win. Advertisement The reason is growth. The loose group of fliers in T-shirts and shorts has, on the most competitive level of the sport, been replaced by organized teams with matching jackets and kites from sponsors who also provide other equipment and travel expenses. Five years ago, 55 fliers and only two teams participated in the East Coast championships. This year, for the first time, the organizers had to cap the field at 168 participants, which included 28 teams. The sport has grown so rapidly that many expect stunt kite flying to become the next beach volleyball, a televised sport in which the top fliers earn a living from competing.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ''It's what we have been trying to get to happen, but it happened quicker than we thought,'' said Reich, the winner in Wildwood of the open individual precision, the individual ballet and the individual innovative events. ''We thought we'd have a dynasty for 10 years,'' he said, combining himself and his team in the royal ''we.'' Dual-line kites have been around for more than 100 years, but Taber's invention of the large-wing stunt kite in 1982 set the stage for the first stunt-kite competitions five years ago. Competitions consist of a number of different disciplines performed by individuals and teams. The precision event is the most analogous to figure skating, consisting of compulsory manuevers and freestyle flying, the latter judged on technique and creativity. Other competitions include ballet, a freestyle routine done to music; quad-line, for kites controlled by four lines; and innovative, which is a kind of perfomance art with kites. The newest form of competition, innovative often includes multiple kites, gadgets, acrobatics and something called stake flying, in which the lines of the kite are run around a stake upwind of the flier. The flier ends up underneath the kite he or she is flying; dancing around, and with, the kite is not uncommon. Seeding is seen as inevitable for the bigger events. Five regional events, including the New York State Championships, to be held at Eisenhower Park in East Meadow, L.I., on Aug. 18, will form the Eastern League, to provide competition for those who are shut out of the major events. But even more important than the explosion in participants is the realization of stunt kiting, with its ballet and innovative events, as a spectator sport: 27,000 spectators reportedly viewed last year's West Coast championships. ''If I could quit my job this second and fly kites for a living, I would,'' said Streed. That day may not be far off. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 2, 1990, on Page C00009 of the National edition with the headline: On Your Own;   Go Fly A Kite For Competitive Fun.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »