Advertisement By FILIP BONDY and  Just when expectations for the United States Olympic hockey team had sunk somewhere below the refrigeration pipes, the Americans showed up tonight at a foggy ice rink near Mont Blanc and outplayed powerful Sweden, 3-2. The United States players skated off the ice beneath a rain of beer bottles and cans tossed by the raucous Swedish fans, then celebrated this final exhibition game with praise all round. "That was a good one to know about," Coach Dave Peterson told his players. "Now, we play for real."  A Pleasant Surprise This fourth successive victory was a pleasant surprise, but no fluke. With the Olympic tournament at Meribel just three days away, both teams -- who will be in the same group in the Games' early round -- were trying very hard to impress each other. Sweden, the defending world champion that includes six former National Hockey League players, pressed hard in the final period. But the Swedes could not penetrate an increasingly confident United States defense that has learned when to bump and when to sag. Advertisement "We played a smart, conservative style," Peterson said. "And maybe the puck is starting to bounce our way a little, too." Advertisement On offense, the Americans were not nearly as efficient. But their six months at hard labor has apparently taught them how to throw the puck in front of the net and hope for the best. Tonight, on poke-ins by Joe Sacco, Marty McInnis and Sacco again, the best happened three times -- once in each period. U.S. Goalie Stands Firm In the final minutes, when the Americans might have flinched under Sweden's pressure, goaltender Ray LeBlanc stood firm in the net and the necessary clears were made by alert defenders. "We stuck to our game plan, is what we did," forward Ted Donato said. "The Swedes are a great team, and they just couldn't rattle us."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Whether this victory was a singular blip on the screen, or something much more, will be determined starting Sunday when the United States opens against Italy. But with this buoyant victory, a dreary string of 63 exhibition games ended in the best way possible for an improving United States team. "We got a feel for the Swedes," Keith Tkachuk said. "And they got a feel for us." History, of Sorts At Chamonix, 68 years ago to the week, the United States Olympic team humbled the Swedes, 20-0, on the way to a silver medal at the first Winter Games. Times have changed a bit, but the same country left tonight pleased with itself. Sweden has been something of a disappointment as of late. It won only one match recently against three other national teams in the Globe Tournament in Stockholm, looking particularly weak against Canada. Coach Conny Evensson of Sweden complained tonight about the laissez faire officiating, and about his team's effort. But he insisted the game was not critical. "This means nothing to us," Evensson said. "On Sunday against Poland, you will see a much better Swedish team." SLAP SHOTS Because of the boisterous Swedish fans tonight at Chamonix during the United States-Sweden match, it was difficult to tell whether the French fans were incited over the Americans' naughty behavior on Tuesday night in Megere. By turning the postmatch handshake there into a virtual brawl, veteran defenseman MOE MANTHA might inadvertently have begun yet an Ugly American movement as the Olympics near. "I will root against the Americans from now on," said VALERIE SAPORITO, who works in public relations at the ice rink in Chamonix. "What they did yesterday was wrong, and after the match there were a lot of angry French people saying bad things about the Americans." . . . Chamonix was the site of the first Winter Olympics in 1924, but the Alpine resort has been shut out of the Albertville Games this time around and has turned to something else entirely. The big event in town, strangely enough, is the coming 24-hour Grand Prix auto race on ice, to be contested on several glazed streets around the city. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 6, 1992, on Page B00014 of the National edition with the headline: ALBERTVILLE '92; U.S. Hockey Team Dazzles Sweden, 3-2.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »