Advertisement  AP Kjell Samuelsson scored his first goal of the season late in the third period tonight to help the Philadelphia Flyers defeat the Winnipeg Jets, 4-3, for their third victory in a row. Samuelsson fired a shot from the left point off a faceoff past the glove hand of the goaltender Stephane Beauregard at 11 minutes 34 seconds of the final period. The goal completed a rally that began late in the second period with the Flyers trailing, 3-1. To start the rally, Gord Murphy scored off a faceoff from the left point between Beauregard's pads at 18:15. Just 48 seconds later, Rick Tocchet tipped in Ron Sutter's shot from the right faceoff circle to tie the game. The Flyers' Tim Kerr started the scoring at 10:43 of first period on the power play when he tapped in Terry Carkner's shot. Advertisement Paul Fenton tied the score when he lifted his own rebound over the glove hand of Ken Wregget at 11:51. Dave Ellett gave the Jets the lead five minutes later when his shot bounced off the crossbar behind Wregget. Randy Carlyle's goal put the Jets ahead, 3-1, at 19:11 of the first. Advertisement Whalers 5, Canadiens 2 HARTFORD, Conn. (AP) - Todd Krygier, Carey Wilson and Randy Cunneyworth scored goals in a 7:52 stretch of the third period to lead Hartford. Krygier broke a 2-2 tie at 1:33 on a rebound from the right post after Montreal's goaltender, Patrick Roy, had stopped Pat Verbeek's backhander from the slot. Wilson made the score 4-2 at 6:44 when he ripped a slapshot from just inside the blue line, and Cunneyworth increaswed the margin to 5-2 when he took Wilson's cross-ice pass and connected from the right circle at 9:25. Bobby Holik and Mikael Andersson also scored for the Whalers, who remained unbeaten (3-0-1) on home ice. Brian Skrudland and Denis Savard tallied for Montreal, which was outshot, 35-19.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Sabres 4, Nordiques 4 QUEBEC (AP) - Uwe Krupp's goal with 1:36 remaining gave winless Buffalo a tie with Quebec. The Nordiques, who beat the Sabres by 4-2 in Buffalo on Friday night, are unbeaten in three games, including two victories - something they haven't done in a year. Blackhawks 4, North Stars 1 BLOOMINGTON, Minn. (AP) - Steve Larmer scored his first hat trick since March 28, 1988, to lead Chicago to victory over mistake-prone Minnesota. The Blackhawks are off to their first 4-1-0 start since 1972-73, the last time they reached the Stanley Cup finals. The goalie Ed Belfour is 4-0. Advertisement Minnesota miscues set up Chicago's first three goals. The Blackhawks went up 1-0 in the first period on Michel Goulet's first goal of the season. The goalie Jon Casey stopped Larmer's shot but Gaeten Duchesne fanned while trying to clear the puck and Goulet scored on a backhander. Red Wings 3, Maple Leafs 3 TORONTO (AP) - Jimmy Carson's second goal of the game earned Detroit the tie in a game in which Toronto picked up its first point of the season. Toronto went into the game with its worst start ever - four consecutive losses - and for the first two periods, it looked like it was going to stay that way. But Toronto pulled ahead, 3-2, with a pair of goals 2:04 apart in the third period, a short-handed effort by Mark Osborne at 2:51 and Wendel Clark's second of the game at 4:55 on the power play. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 14, 1990, on Page 8008005 of the National edition with the headline: Pro Hockey;   Flyers Rally to Defeat Jets, 4-3.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »