Advertisement By ROBERT MCG. THOMAS JR. DON'T be surprised if you see more home runs this season or if you have to look twice to see what kind of bats are being used to hit them. You can also expect to see more passed balls, not to mention bits of measuring tape hanging out of umpires' pockets. That's because the major league rules committee has taken steps to enforce one widely ignored regulation and to revise another. The rule that will be enforced, for the first time in memory, governs the size of fielders' gloves and catchers' mitts. The revised rule governs the size and placement of manufacturers' trademarks on bats. Both actions are the result of some flagrant flaunting. In the World Series last year, Rickey Henderson used a gaudy black bat with big white letters spelling ''LOUISVILLE.'' And a photograph in Sports Illustrated a while back showed the Pirate outfielder R. J. Reynolds holding up a regulation glove dwarfed by his own illicit monster. Advertisement Under what could be called the new Henderson rule, trademarks have been restricted to one 4-inch-long zone beginning 18 inches from the knob. Advertisement The rule that will now be enforced requires that fielders' gloves measure no more than 12 inches along the inside contour from top to bottom, with catchers' mitts limited to no more than 38 inches in circumference and no more than 15 1/2 inches along the vertical inside contour.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Rawlings and other suppliers say a few catchers have used leather washtubs when a knuckleballer is on the mound, while outfielders have routinely used 13-inch gloves, with some deploying models as long as 14 inches or more. (Infielders actually prefer smaller models, which allow them to get the ball out faster.) Under the new enforcement procedures, umpires may measure gloves at their discretion, while each manager may demand two measurements a game. Play up to the time of a confiscation will not be affected. The extra length may not seem like much, but in a game of inches it can mean the difference between a diving catch and an extra-base hit or between a home run and one of those spectacular climb-the-wall plays in which a fielder reaches over the wall to snare a fly ball in the webbing. Indeed, Jess Heald, the president of Worth Inc., a glove supplier, goes so far as to suggest that Kevin Mitchell, the major league leader with 47 home runs last year, might hit a record 62 homers this season. That, he admits, could be a bit of an exaggeration, but if fielders abide by the rules, sluggers may find less need for corked bats. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 9, 1990, on Page C00002 of the National edition with the headline: SPORTS WORLD SPECIALS: BASEBALL;   Sizing Up Rules On Bats, Gloves.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »