Advertisement By MICHAEL JANOFSKY They were but faces in the crowd two years ago, among hundreds of young athletes trying to make the United States Olympic track and field team. And like so many whose forays ended too soon, they disappeared again into the background, left to ponder the what-ifs and train for future glories. Over the last two months during the North American indoor season, culminating with the USA/Mobil championships Friday night in Madison Square Garden, Tony Dees and Michelle Finn emerged as potential forces in their events, maybe talented enough to move into loftier regions of the national rankings in the summer season. Dees, a 26-year-old sprinter from Pascagoula, Miss., has specialized in an odd combination of events outdoors, the 200-meter dash and the 110-meter hurdles. Indoors, he has run the shorter sprints and hurdles. But not until this indoor season had he ever run so consistently. He had an American best at 100 meters, one victory and two runner-up finishes in 55-meter events, and a victory and two second places in the 55-meter hurdles, all before Friday night. Within 10 minutes on Friday, he won the 55-meter hurdles race in 7.03 seconds and finished in a dead heat with Daron Council for second place in the open sprint behind Brian Cooper. Advertisement Steinbrenner's Helping Hand One of the things to which Dees attributes his sudden success is his affiliation with the Florida Clipper Track Club, an organization sponsored in part by George Steinbrenner, the principal owner of the Yankees and a vice president of the United States Olympic Committee. Advertisement ''He's a fun guy to work for,'' Dees said, an infrequent assessment, given the city in which he made it. ''He gives me pointers all the time, telling me the goods and bads about the race. He's a fantastic guy.'' Whether it was Steinbrenner's influence or something else, Dees ran an impressive race to win the hurdles, beating a field that included Roger Kingdom, a two-time Olympic champion, and Tonie Campbell, the 1988 Olympic bronze medalist. Arther Blake was second to Dees, in 7.09, Kingdom was next, at 7.12, and Campbell fourth in 7.16. ''I've always been trying to catch up to these guys,'' Dees said. ''I would say: 'I've got to get Arthur. I've got to get Roger.' After I finished this race, I told Tonie, 'Now I'm with you guys.' '' Strictly a Sprinter Finn, a 24-year-old Floridian, is strictly a sprinter, whose only major championships came in 1985, her sophomore year at Florida State, when she won the N.C.A.A. indoor title at 55 meters and the outdoor title at 100 meters.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. After that, she ran steadily but at a level below the best. Then, this indoor season, she won three Grand Prix events and finished second in three others to rank easily as the leading female sprinter on the circuit. She cemented her position in the championships, winning the 55-meter sprint in 6.61 seconds, defeating Dawn Sowell (6.65) and Sheila Echols (6.75). Unlike Dees, Finn has done it on her own, training at a municipal facility in Orlando. She returned to Florida last fall after spending two years in Champaign, Ill., where she worked as a graduate assistant with the University of Illinois's track and field team. A Matter of Weight ''The problem was, I gained five or six pounds while I was there, and I'm not used to running with the extra weight,'' she said. ''Immediately after I moved back to Florida, the weight came off.'' She had not known what to expect when the indoor season began. But then in her first major event, the Millrose Games, she won the sprint, and that seemed to justify the change in venue. ''When you're on your own, you can be very, very unsure of yourself, she said. ''No one is there to reassure you about things you're doing right or point out what you're doing wrong. I had never experienced anything like winning at the Millrose Games. That re-sparked confidence in myself. Now I know I can run at that level. For the past three years I had my doubts.'' PADILLA AND MARTIN BEST OVER ALL Doug Padilla, the distance runner who captured the 3,000-meter event on Friday, and LaVonna Martin, the hurdler who won the 55-meter event, became the men's and women's overall winners of the Mobil Grand Prix season. Each earned $15,200. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 25, 1990, on Page 8008004 of the National edition with the headline: TRACK AND FIELD;   No Longer Faces in a Crowd.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »