Advertisement  TENNIS  Pioline Is Defeated in Romania  Cedric Pioline, the United States Open runner-up, was upset by Andrea Gaudenzi, 6-3, 3-6, 6-2, yesterday in the second round of the Romanian Open in Bucharest. Pioline, seeded third, was playing his second match since losing to Pete Sampras four days ago in the final at Flushing Meadows. "I still am living in another time zone; for me, it's morning now," Pioline said after losing to the 20-year-old Italian. "Besides, Gaudenzi is a very good clay player, and I last played on clay three months ago." Top-seeded Goran Ivanisevic defeated Marcelo Filippini, 7-6 (7-3), 6-2, in another second-round match in the country's first open tennis tournament. (AP) Patrick McEnroe Loses to No. 2-Seeded Rosset: Marc Rosset, the No. 2-seeded player from Switzerland, beat Patrick McEnroe, 6-4, 6-3, yesterday to gain the quarterfinals of the Bordeaux Passing Shot Tournament. All the matches were in the second round after rain disrupted play the first three days. No. 5 Fabrice Santoro of France, bothered by a sore shoulder, lost to Diego Nargiso of Italy, 6-1, 6-2. No. 3 Arnaud Boetsch of France downed Nicolas Pereira of Venezuela, 7-5, 7-5, and No. 4 Javier Sanchez of Spain defeated Olivier Delaitre of France, 6-2, 2-6, 6-0. In other matches, Javier Frana of Argentina eliminated Rodolphe Gilbert of France, 6-1, 7-6 (7-4), and Libor Nemecek of the Czech Republic ousted Chris Wilkinson of Britain, 6-4, 6-4. In a match that ended late Wednesday, No. 1 Sergi Bruguera beat Henri Leconte, 6-4, 6-0. The match was interrupted once by rain and twice by power outages. Bruguera beat Leconte in the first round of the French Open and went on to win the title. (AP) GOLF We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 17, 1993, on Page B00010 of the National edition with the headline: RESULTS PLUS.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »