Advertisement By JOE SEXTON It has been, without doubt, one of the more delightfully rude of introductions. Normand Rochefort, largely unknown to his teammates, his prospective fans and his now regular opponents, has clearly decided that the best way to gain recognition is to dispose of bodies. It's been an inspired bit of incivility. ''The guy makes hitting look like an art form,'' Mark Hardy said of Rochefort, one of his colleagues on defense for the Rangers. ''He just throws bombs of checks that are all legal, clean. It's an art form that sure looks like it hurts.'' Rochefort's collection of priceless hits has been handsomely and extravagantly added to almost every game. Rochefort, plastering players to the boards when he isn't splashing them onto the ice, has registered dozens of crunching checks in the two months since his remarkable and resounding return from major knee surgery. ''Every game, he catches two or three solid hits,'' Roger Neilson, the coach of the Rangers, said of Rochefort. ''And what's special about it all is that he doesn't get penalized. He picks his spots.'' Advertisement Solid Hitter As a result, Rochefort usually leaves opponents picking themselves up. Rochefort, who will play in Quebec tonight for the first time since he was traded from the Nordiques to the Rangers in August 1988, smiles at the thought of his mental scrapbook full of players left momentarily on the scrap heap. Advertisement ''I have to follow my body,'' he said, ''and my body wants to hit. That is my game. And I'm very satisfied with it right now.'' The Rangers, who need a victory tonight to clinch first place in their division for the first time in 48 years, are nothing short of ecstatic. That Rochefort would come back at all was not certain; that he would come back with a vengeance was a fantasy. It's a fantasy that they, with each practice, each paralyzing hit, have begun to believe in. And as they head into the relentless rigors of the playoffs, it is one they must count on. The Ranger defense is currently without five of its top seven members. David Shaw and Brian Leetch are done for the season; Randy Moller is doubtful until the start of the playoff and Mark Hardy's ankle is still bothering him. Although Ron Greshner is expected back soon, the Rangers are short at a position that is essential if they want to play long into the spring.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Feeling Good ''The more I play, the better I feel,'' said Rochefort recently. ''I've been strong, fast on the ice, pretty good at going side to side. I'm impressed.'' Rochefort is also relieved that he has at last demonstrated that his acquisition by the Rangers was not the blunder it looked to be for so long. Rochefort, the central figure in a controversial trade that sent Walt Poddubny to Quebec before the start of last season, played only 11 games before submitting to surgery and subjecting himself to a long season of cynicism and second-guessing. He was referred to as damaged goods and was regarded as a giant question mark by his new teammates. Rochefort, his pride stung and his confidence shaken by major reconstructive surgery performed on his right knee, went about his painful rehabilitation in relative solitude. But his knee gradually strengthened, his eagerness quickly built and his desire moved into overdrive. He even leveled one of his team's top stars in his first, supposedly noncontact, practice session. Ready to Explode Michel Bergeron, who had coached Rochefort for years in Quebec, was then the Ranger coach who had encouraged Phil Esposito, the team's general manager, to acquire Rochefort in 1988. But Bergeron also warned Neilson to make sure the 29-year-old defenseman was fully healthy before he was installed in the lineup. He told Neilson that Rochefort would explode once he was turned loose and that his knee, if not 100 percent, could pop again as a result. The only things that have popped, though, have been the chests of opposing forwards. Rochefort, with perfect precision, if sometimes less than ideal timing, has given the Rangers a presence in front of the net that they have lacked for years. Advertisement ''I want to contribute,'' Rochefort said. ''I want to prove what I can do.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 27, 1990, on Page B00014 of the National edition with the headline: Rangers' Rochefort Comes On Strong.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »