Advertisement By JOE LAPOINTE The National Hockey League hopes to expand by seven teams in this decade, but its gradually growing image of stability has been shaken recently by the Minnesota North Stars' threat to move to northern California. In the latest development yesterday, the Metropolitan Sports Facilities Commission, meeting in Minneapolis, unanimously turned down a request from the owners of the North Stars to spend $15 million on improvements for the Metropolitan Sports Center, where the team plays. The team owners, George and Gordon Gund, issued their demand less than a month ago. The Gund brothers say the team has lost $16 million in the last three years and has only 3,800 season-ticket holders. They are insisting on a base of 10,000 season tickets. ''I love hockey, too, and I love hockey in Minnesota, but George and I aren't in the charitable business of supporting that,'' Gordon Gund told the commission. Advertisement The N.H.L. Board of Governors, which has appointed a committee to study the Minnesota problem, will next consider the North Stars' application to transfer at the meeting of March 19-20. Advertisement Might the North Stars be put up for sale first? Gordon Gund hinted yesterday that he would consider such an action. A sale might please the league more than a transfer. ''One of our responsibilities is to see if there are good-faith purchasers in the area,'' John A. Ziegler Jr., president of the N.H.L., said yesterday. ''The league has a long-standing policy that we do not look with favor on relocation of franchises.'' Ron Gornick, chairman of the Sports Facilities Commission, said yesterday that he has heard that the North Stars would be priced at $50 million to $60 million on the open market. ''I don't know if that's a solid price anywhere,'' Gornick said. The N.H.L. has set a minimum price of $50 million on expansion franchises. The commission also said it was willing to transfer to the city of Bloomington its lease for use of the Sports Center land so that Bloomington could sell bonds for improvement of the arena. Tough Decisions After Kjell Samuelsson of the Philadelphia Flyers banged the puck off the crossbar in a recent game with the Islanders, the goal judge in the Spectrum turned on the red light. Samuelsson later said, ''It was not a goal, but they counted it anyway'' as the Flyers tied, 5-5.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Last Monday, when John MacLean of the Devils appeared to put the puck into the Rangers' net during overtime, the goal judge in Madison Square Garden didn't see it. When the puck bounced out, play continued. The Rangers eventually won the game, although some of their players, including Bernie Nicholls, conceded that New Jersey had been deprived of a victory. In both cases, television replays seemed to show that the goal judges were wrong. In a division such as the Patrick, where six teams are separated by 6 points, a decision like this might mean the difference between making or missing the playoffs. That could result in a change in post-season cash flow of many thousands of dollars. Isn't it time for the N.H.L. to allow teams limited rights of appeal of disputed goals through instant replays on television monitors? Advertisement ''These situations are very infrequent,'' Ziegler said yesterday, adding that goal judges and referees (who can overrule them) do a good job. ''I don't think you knee-jerk react to one situation,'' Ziegler said. ''The question of videotape has circulated for three or four years. But it hasn't moved with the momentum that makes it seem imminent.'' Foreign Territory Two newspaper reporters from the Soviet Union have complained in recent weeks that they are unwelcome in the corridor outside the locker rooms at Madison Square Garden. In separate incidents, Gennadi Fyodorov of Soviet Sport and Michael Vapne of Russian Daily say they don't get equal treatment accorded to North American reporters. Fyodorov's publication appears in the Soviet Union; Vapne's paper appears in the United States. ''The N.H.L. says it welcomes Soviets, but that is not the case for reporters,'' said Fyodorov. Debating with secruity guards, he said, ''is like arguing with barking dogs.'' Vapne, who said he had a legitimate credential, said: ''It looks to me like discrimination. I showed the security man a credential, which he didn't accept. It seemed like they tried to prevent me from working here.'' Vapne said he has no trouble at Nassau Coliseum for Islander games), the Spectrum for Flyers games or Byrne Meadowlands Arena, for Devils games. Barry Watkins, public relations director for the Rangers, said yesterday that Fyodorov wasn't issued a credential for a game on Monday because he called his request in too late, after all had been issued. ''He showed up anyway,'' Watkins said. Watkins said he didn't know of Vapne's problems and would like to learn more about the incident. ''Maybe the guard was a little ruder than he should have been,'' said Watkins. ''We try to cooperate as much as possible. Sometimes it's hard to tell who is legitimate.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 22, 1990, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: NOTEBOOK;   Expansion Gets a Bit of a Setback.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »