Advertisement By PHIL BERGER Iran (The Blade) Barkley entered the ring last night at the Paramount as a challenger considered past his fighting prime. He left as a champion. Barkley, 31 years old, knocked out Darrin Van Horn at 1 minute 33 seconds of the second round of a scheduled 12-round fight to win the International Boxing Federation super middleweight title. Barkley was nailing Van Horn from the opening bell with his left hook. His first hook, only seconds into the bout, wobbled Van Horn. But it was in the second round that Barkley achieved the desired result. He used a left hook to knock down Van Horn, who was up at the count of 6 and took a mandatory 8 count from Referee Arthur Mercante Jr. Advertisement Barkley knocked Van Horn down again with another left hook. And when Barkley scored a third knockdown, Mercante stopped the fight. Advertisement "I got caught," said Van Horn, who is 23 years old. "No legs. I just got over a cold. I just got caught." But the new champion, who entered the ring with a fierce and determined expression and taunted Van Horn just before the fight, said dedication made the difference. "I was willing to pay the price, and I paid the price," said Barkley. Barkley, a former middleweight champion who lives in the Bronx, is now 28-7 with 17 knockouts. Van Horn drops to 47-3 with 27 knockouts. Van Horn weighed 167 pounds, and Barkley came in at the super middleweight limit of 168 pounds. Hearns on His List  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Barkley afterward called for a rematch against Thomas Hearns, from whom he won the World Boxing Council middleweight title in June 1988. "Come get me," he said to Hearns. Last night's card represented the first fight promotion in the Paramount, which had a former life as the Felt Forum. That arena last had a boxing show in August 1989. Since then the arena has undergone a change of configuration and personality, with new seats and lighting. The Paramount seats 5,190 spectators, and last night's show drew 3,063. Jones Is Impressive In earlier bouts last night, Roy Jones Jr., the 1988 Seoul Olympic silver medalist, was impressive in scoring a first-round knockout over former world champion Jorge Vaca. Meanwhile, Frank Tate stopped Andrew Maynard at 1:52 of the 11th round of a scheduled 12-round bout to win the North American Boxing Federation light heavyweight title. Advertisement For the undefeated Jones, who weighed 158 pounds, it was his 16th victory, all of which he has won by knockout. Tate (29-2, 16 knockouts) dropped a bleeding and fatigued Maynard in the 11th round. Tate advanced toward Maynard, who dropped to one knee for a second knockdown. At that point, the referee, Jose Santarpia stopped the fight. Regularly scheduled boxing shows at the Paramount begin on Feb. 18. In the first main event, Kevin Kelley will try to defend his W.B.C. Continental Americas title against Troy Dorsey, the former I.B.F. featherweight champion. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 11, 1992, on Page 1001029 of the National edition with the headline: BOXING; Barkley, Not Acting His Age, Knocks Out Van Horn.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »