Advertisement By JOE LAPOINTE and  Gilbert Dionne grew up in a Quebec town as the hockey-playing brother of a National Hockey League superstar. That wasn't easy. The sport creates a hothouse atmosphere in this province's long winters, especially when everyone knows the root system of the family tree. "When I was a kid, the other parents would say to the coaches 'Why do you play him? Just because he has the name Dionne on his back?' " Gilbert (pronounced Geel-bear) Dionne recalled the other day. He is a rookie with the Montreal Canadiens, who played the Islanders tonight in the Forum. "So I would be sat out by the coach and I would go home crying," Gilbert went on. "My mother would tell me 'You will play in the N.H.L.' She always believed in me, but I didn't always believe in myself. I went through a lot. I asked myself, 'Do you really want to play hockey?' " At the time, his brother, Marcel, was a star with the Los Angeles Kings, a center who who would play 18 seasons with three teams and score 731 goals and 1,771 points, both third best in N.H.L. history. Although their parents are the same and their game is the same and their last names are the same, the Dionne brothers had little else in common.  'Weren't Close at All' Advertisement Gilbert, the youngest of eight children, is now 21 years old. Marcel, the oldest, is 40. Some fans still think that one brother is the father and the other is the son. Advertisement "We weren't close at all," Gilbert Dionne said of Marcel. "I would see him once or twice a year and he would bring me maybe a Kings sweater, gold and purple, with a crown on front and his name on the back. I would go in the locker room, but I couldn't speak English then. I felt like just another fan." And then Marcel and his Kings would board a jet and fly off to California or Vancouver, British Columbia, or someplace else. Gilbert would remain in an environment where hockey means so much it sometimes hurts. "At my games, he was never there, and there were things I didn't understand," Gilbert Dionne said. "I wondered 'How come other brothers can come? Why can't he be in the stands and I can point to him and tell my teammates, There! That's my brother! Marcel Dionne!' " The brothers have grown closer lately. Marcel, now retired and living in the New York suburbs, had dinner with Gilbert last week in Manhattan and sat in the stands to watch the Canadiens defeat the Islanders at the Coliseum last Tuesday night. There is plenty to cheer about. Gilbert, who joined the Canadiens in December, has 14 goals and 10 assists in 28 games before tonight's game against the Islanders. He was honored as the N.H.L.'s rookie of the month for February. Different Styles Taller (6 feet compared with Marcel at 5-8) and more slender (194 pounds compared with 185) than his older brother, he also plays a different position, on the left wing. Marcel was a stocky center and he doesn't expect Gilbert to be like him. "Does Brett Hull play like Bobby Hull?" he said in a telephone interview from his dry-cleaning business. "Does Mark Howe play like Gordie Howe?"  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. From Marcel's perspective, their past relationship might have been as close as it reasonably could have been, given the circumstances. He remembers advising his brother to leave Quebec, as Marcel did, to play junior hockey in Ontario, a much different cultural environment. "He called me when he was 15 and said he wanted to follow my path," Marcel said. Gilbert said it paid off, despite the difficulties. He left Drummondville, Quebec, skipped the midget level, and started at the Junior B level at Niagara Falls, Ontario, before moving on to Junior A in Kitchener, Ontario. Advertisement "When I left home, I didn't even speak English," said Gilbert, who now speaks it well, with much animation. "It was a good and hard experience. I didn't realize then that Junior B was where guys go to end their careers, not to start them. "I was 15 or 16 and playing with guys who were 19, guys who were going into bars. I don't even know where those guys are today. Maybe working in the plants." Advice From Marcel He didn't stand out at Kitchener until his final season, when he scored 48 goals. But he was drafted on only the fifth round by Montreal and sent to the minor leagues last season. He struggled in his first month with the Canadiens, but has excelled since. When Marcel sat with him for conversation this week, "he told me not to spend all my money," Gilbert said. Marcel said his younger brother "has a head on his shoulders. He's willing to listen. We are trying to make up for a lot now. We can relate." Gilbert said: "I want to have a real brother relationship. I can see in his face he is so happy for me. I've got lots of things in my heart and my mind to say. But it is difficult. In our family, we never express it. We never show emotion." He said one of the best things he had heard this week was in a conversation with Marcel's daughter. "She's 15 years old," Gilbert said. "She said 'You can't believe how proud my dad is of you.' " We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 8, 1992, on Page 8008005 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; Gilbert Dionne Emerges From Brother's Shadow.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »