Advertisement By JEFF Z. KLEIN and ALLAN KREDAMAY 10, 2014
 The Rangers’ 5-1 victory over Pittsburgh on Friday was very much about Martin St. Louis and the way his teammates rallied around him after the death of his mother. But among the Rangers who touched helmets with St. Louis as they came off the ice were the three forwards who were perhaps most responsible for prolonging the Eastern Conference semifinal series: Derick Brassard, Mats Zuccarello and Benoit Pouliot. The Rangers, who trail the Penguins by three games to two, will be counting on Brassard, Zuccarello and Pouliot again in a must-win Game 6 on Sunday at Madison Square Garden. The Brassard-Zuccarello-Pouliot line has been a thorn in the Penguins’ side all season, scoring 11 goals in nine regular-season and playoff games against Pittsburgh, more than any other Rangers combination. On Friday, Brassard notched two goals and an assist, Zuccarello had three assists, Pouliot had one assist and they each went plus 2. “They have been able to generate good chances against a real strong opponent that defends real well,” Coach Alain Vigneault said during a conference call Saturday after the Rangers returned from Pittsburgh. “Obviously, we need that line to continue for us.” Advertisement The three forwards are often referred to as the Rangers’ third line, but that’s not entirely accurate. Zuccarello had more even-strength ice time (13 minutes 43 seconds) in Game 5 than any other Rangers forwards except St. Louis (14:10) and Carl Hagelin (15:10). Brassard and Pouliot were not far behind. The three could be considered Line 1A, 1B or 1C in Vigneault’s quick-change, rolling four-line system. Advertisement They have provided the bulk of the Rangers’ scoring in this series, while Rick Nash and the rest of the top scorers have gone cold. Brassard has three goals, including the overtime winner in Game 1; Pouliot and Zuccarello have one each. Brassard and Zuccarello also became the first two Rangers to have at least 3 points in a road playoff game since May 18, 1997, when Wayne Gretzky scored a hat trick and Mark Messier had a goal and two assists against the Philadelphia Flyers. Nash has not scored a goal in the postseason (though he earned his first point of the series with an assist on Kevin Klein’s empty-net goal Friday). Derek Stepan remains without a point in the series, as does St. Louis, although the Garden crowd is expected to greet him warmly after the sudden death of his mother, France, on Thursday. “Obviously, it’s going to be a very emotional night again for our group, being Mother’s Day and the situation Marty is going through right now,” Vigneault said. “We’ve been able to get through adversity before, and that’s what I think we did last night, apply the game plan we wanted to apply.” Vigneault also said that St. Louis had again flown home to Montreal after Game 5 win and would return to New York with his sister and his father, Normand. “He’s bringing them both to the game tomorrow, and hopefully they will bring us some positive energy,” said Vigneault, who like St. Louis and Brassard is a native of the province of Quebec. “Our level of compete and desperation has to be as high as it can be.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Rangers are 8-2 in their previous 10 elimination playoff games starting with a first-round series against Ottawa in 2012, when they trailed, three games to two, then beat the Senators twice. They will focus on scoring early against the flighty Penguins goaltender Marc-Andre Fleury, who had a penchant for becoming unglued in recent postseasons. Fleury had consecutive shutouts in Games 2 and 3 but gave up four goals on 34 shots in Game 5. Advertisement After Friday’s victory inspired by St. Louis’s return to the team, Brassard talked about growing up in Quebec and admiring St. Louis as the best French-Canadian player of his generation. But he also talked about the Rangers’ sense of urgency, which has been lacking through most of the series. “We’re desperate right now,” said Brassard, who has five postseason goals in his career, including three winners. “Our backs are against the wall, so it’s a lot easier on us because the hardest game to win is the fourth one.” Zuccarello led the Rangers this season with 59 points (19 goals and 40 assists), helped in large part by the formation of his unit with Pouliot and Brassard. All three are creative playmakers who have a knack of finding one another on the ice. A soft-spoken Norwegian, Zuccarello has maintained an even keel all season, although he did not register a point in the first seven games. He has three goals and seven assists in the nine games against the Penguins. “There’s always pressure to score goals to win hockey games,” Zuccarello said last week. “We just have to keep playing the same way and get in front of Fleury. We have to stay positive.” A version of this article appears in print on May 11, 2014, on Page SP5 of the New York edition with the headline: Against Penguins, One Line Clicks for Rangers.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »