Advertisement By JOSEPH SIANO Dominance isn't given up very easily at the Daytona 500. Like a driver in the 10-car conga lines that roll down the backstretch in a bumper-to-bumper draft, if you want to cut in near the front, you could be bucking the turbulence a long time. Darrell Waltrip knows. Before last year, he tried unsuccessfully 16 times to win the biggest event in stock-car racing. He had won the Winston Cup, Nascar's top championship, three times and was the leading money winner on the circuit. But at the Daytona 500, the generation of drivers who took over in the early 1960's was still in control. Not a Fan Favorite And the fans, perhaps because Waltrip was the first of the upstarts to challenge men who had become folk heroes, put him at the top of the all-time opprobrium list. Advertisement That old group, which accounted for 18 of the last 26 Daytona 500 victories, is now gone. Cale Yarborough, David Pearson and Benny Parsons have retired. Buddy Baker was forced out by a lack of sponsorship; Bobby Allison, by a near-fatal accident. Advertisement And Richard Petty and A. J. Foyt, the only two old-guard winners in today's Daytona 500 (CBS, noon, Eastern time), represent a ceremonial monarchy. After last season, it can be argued that Waltrip's ascendancy is complete. He starts in seventh position on the grid today, but he leads the pack in a more extended sense. Waltrip, 43 years old, is the defending race champion thanks to a brilliant fuel-conservation gambit last year. Newfound Popularity And after years of reviling him, the fans selected him the most popular driver last season for the first time. Waltrip's driving style has taken on a mellow subtlety in a sport of bashed sheetmetal and the occasional bruised knuckle. ''Normally, I would have been real annoyed that I wasn't leading the race,'' Waltrip said, referring to the fact that he was well behind his teammate Ken Schrader until late in last year's Daytona 500. Instead, he and his crew chief, Jeff Hammond, decided to draft to conserve fuel. Waltrip took the lead for good when Schrader made a late pit stop.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Waltrip's new patience - ''the not having to be out front all day'' - may be anathema to hard chargers like Rusty Wallace and Dale Earnhardt. Advertisement But Wallace, 33, the defending Winston Cup champion, is back for his eighth attempt today without a victory; Earnhardt, 37, is 0 for 11. Waltrip said that first Daytona victory started the bandwagon rolling in the fan balloting for most popular driver. When he accepted the trophy last December in Manhattan, he also gave credit to his wife, Stevie, and their daughter, Jessica, who is now 2. Have Shared the Worst ''She's stood out there on the podium on Sundays and been booed just like I have and cried all the way back to the car,'' he said of his wife last week. ''Then all of a sudden, Jessica came along. People knew of our desires to have children and also knew of our problems in trying to have children.'' Mother and daughter visit victory lane whenever Pop does. Waltrip believes their presence has helped people realize that he's not such a bad guy. ''All of a sudden I'm a dad,'' he said. ''I'm not just a race car driver anymore.'' Waltrip, who has 79 career Winston Cup race victories, said he would like to get 100 before retiring. That would leave him third over all, five victories behind Pearson and one career behind Petty, who has 200 victories. (Petty would probably still lead the list even if a good part of his career wasn't spent in the days when Nascar ran almost 50 races a year, instead of the 29 it runs now.) #23-CAR PILEUP AT DAYTONA DAYTONA BEACH, Fla., Feb. 17 (AP) - A chain-reaction collision, begun when a car spun in the middle of the track, involved 23 drivers today, making it the biggest crash at Daytona International Speedway in 30 years. The crash occurred on the 14th lap of the Goody 300, a 120-lap, 43-car Grand National race. Among those sidelined was the pole-sitter, Darrell Waltrip, who had fallen back in the pack because of engine difficulties. Also sidelined was Ken Schrader, the pole-sitter for the Daytona 500 on Sunday. The only injury reported was to Ron Cooper, who suffered a concussion. The crash sent 18 cars to the garage area. Four were patched up and returned to the race. The veteran driver Brad Teague initiated the pileup when he and Dale Jarrett were racing side by side for sixth place leaving turn 4. Teague's Oldsmobile spun sideways and was clipped by Waltrip's Chevrolet. Advertisement Dale Earnhardt, who steered clear of the crash, outdueled Harry Gant and Greg Sacks to win the race. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 18, 1990, on Page 8008006 of the National edition with the headline: AUTO RACING;   Waltrip Thriving On a Subtler Style.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »