Advertisement By JOE SEXTON The question was direct, and the Mets, perhaps out of relief, perhaps out of belief, couldn't answer quickly enough. Who's going to win the National League East. John Franco: "The Mets." Mackey Sasser: "Us." Only Bobby Bonilla equivocated. "I don't make predictions," said the right fielder. Well, the Mets get to begin making their case tonight against the Cardinals. And the New York team's four games in St. Louis, starting with the opener against right-hander Jose DeLeon, should comprise an interesting exhibit. The Cardinals, who got their uniforms dirty and their lungs plenty exercised in fighting their way to second place in the National League East last season, should make the Mets field the baseball and make the plays and demonstrate that their offense can do what it didn't do last season, and that is victimize undistinguished pitching. Cardinals Won Season Series Advertisement The Cardinals took 11 of 18 games with the Mets last season, with their variety of victories illustrating the full scope of horrors that plagued the Mets last season. St. Louis slaughtered Dwight Gooden one afternoon at Shea, scoring 14 runs. And the Cards defeated the Mets, 2-1, in a game at Busch Stadium in which the Mets allowed one hit in eight innings. Advertisement "Hey, I say we will win," said Franco. "But I also say we should fear everyone." Themselves not least of all. Franco, the closer who gets outs on the ground, last season felt the full force of a flawed defense. "Defense is what separated us when we won the N.L. East the last two seasons," Bonilla said, referring to his former team, the Pirates. "Spring training has been fine for working on fielding and talking about playing good defense. But once the bell rings for the season, we'll get an early and good indication if we can catch the baseball." One potential bonus is that the Mets' pitching may be good enough to severely restrict the number of plays the eight position players have to make during the course of a season. "We've always had a real variety in the definitions of the types of pitchers we've had," said David Cone. "But you look at myself, Saberhagen, Fernandez, Doc and Anthony Young, and we all can get it up over 90 miles per hour. I've got to believe that'll take some of the pressure off our defense."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. A lot of the air has been taken out of the club's spring push to excellence of late. A 6-5 loss to the Yankees at Shea yesterday was the sixth straight loss for the Mets. And Cone, who will start for the Mets tonight in his first opening-day assignment, finished his preparations by being shellacked for six runs in five innings. "It doesn't really disconcert me," Cone said. That, then, was the collective rallying cry of the entire organization as it embarked on its first season of the post-reconstruction era. The suspended fates of three players facing possible rape charges supposedly won't deter it. The enormous health issues involving Dwight Gooden and shortstop Kevin Elster won't temper the enthusiasm. The poor springs of Eddie Murray and Bonilla were presumably illusions. "It's hard to say what's stronger for us our pitching or our offense," said Sasser. "But we can have a hell of an offensive team. There won't necessarily be a lot of homers. But there are going to be a lot of runs. We're as good as anyone." It's a restrained, reasonable claim. And maybe that, at long last, is the proper perspective for the Mets. No talk of pitching domination. No promises of monster seasons. No condescending talk about the rest of the National League East. Advertisement "I won't say who will win it," said Cone. "But I will say for sure that we won't fall out of the race by July. There will be exciting games in September." There will be, whatever the score, an exciting game tonight in St. Louis. It won't say everything about the 1992 Mets, probably won't say anything definitive. But it will be a real and important way of saying hello to the National League East. INSIDE PITCH Manager JEFF TORBORG said his decision on a starting shortstop for the opener tonight would not be made until shortly before the game. KEVIN ELSTER's troubled shoulder and the likelihood of cool temperatures likely will force Torborg to start BILL PECOTA, who otherwise would have been the starting third baseman, to play short, with DAVE MAGADAN taking over at third. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 6, 1992, on Page C00004 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Mets Defense: Armed and Precarious.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »