Advertisement By DAVID WALDSTEINMAY 10, 2014
 MILWAUKEE —  The fans at Miller Park cheered C. C. Sabathia when he walked to the mound for the first time Saturday. They also gave him a standing ovation when he came to the plate in his first at-bat. The appreciative cheers were in recognition of the fine work Sabathia did for the Brewers in 2008, even if it was almost six years ago and only for three months. Traded to Milwaukee by the Cleveland Indians at the height of his dominance, Sabathia went 11-2 with a 1.65 earned run average for the Brewers and helped them to reach the postseason for the first time in 26 years. But the Sabathia that the Brewers fans saw Saturday, in his first game in Milwaukee since ’08, was a far different pitcher from the one they remembered. No longer did he overpower hitters or make up for mistakes with sheer velocity. This Sabathia was in the midst of trying to relearn the art of pitching with less imposing stuff. At times, it has been an awkward process. Now his mistakes are punished, as happened Saturday when he gave up three long home runs in a game the Brewers won, 5-4. Advertisement “It’s not going to happen overnight,” Sabathia said of the learning curve. Two of the home runs came after a critical error by Brendan Ryan, who was filling in at short for Derek Jeter, who was given the day off. With two outs in the third and the Yankees leading, 2-1, Ryan bobbled a routine grounder from Jean Segura. The next batter, Jonathan Lucroy, drove an 0-2 sinker way over the wall in center field. Aramis Ramirez then hit a cutting changeup into the seats beyond the wall in left. Advertisement “It just rips your heart out,” Ryan said. “C. C. was starting to cruise there for minute. Obviously, three runs follow. Wanted to get out of that inning for him, but they put a couple of good at-bats together and next thing you know, it cost you three. It feels pretty awful.” The Yankees did rally to even the score, 4-4. Mark Teixeira hit his sixth home run of the season, a solo shot, in the sixth, and three pinch-hitters combined to produce a run in the seventh. But Alfredo Aceves allowed a run in the bottom of the seventh when Lucroy doubled, went to third on a balk and scored on a ground-ball single past a diving Yangervis Solarte on the left side of the infield. In the ninth inning, Francisco Rodriguez pitched a 1-2-3 inning for his 15th save. Ryan, considered a defensive whiz, said the ball just hit the wrong part of his glove, and called it a physical error. Because of it, three of Sabathia’s runs were unearned and his E.R.A. actually declined to 5.28 from 5.75. And because the Yankees came back to tie the score, Sabathia did not take the loss, remaining at 3-4. One year after he allowed a career-high 28 home runs, he has surrendered 10 in eight starts. Even though he was off the hook as far as his E.R.A. was concerned, Sabathia knows that a dominant pitcher, like the one who electrified the fans here six years ago, is always capable of brushing aside a fielder’s gaffe by burying the next batter and getting out of an inning unscathed. “You’ve got to pick your guys up,” he said. “They pick me up all the time. Unfortunately, I wasn’t able to make a pitch right there.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. With less velocity on his pitches and a seemingly chronic inability to avoid one killer inning in each of his starts, Sabathia does not resemble his once-dominant self. Advertisement But after Saturday’s game, he was able to take away some encouraging signs. For instance, after the back-to-back homers in the third, he gave up two hits, including a bloop single, but ultimately escaped the inning. Then he set down the next eight batters until he walked Mark Reynolds with one out in the sixth. Khris Davis and Caleb Gindl followed with singles, and the Brewers had the bases loaded. That was the end for Sabathia, who walked off the mound to another warm reception. Dellin Betances replaced Sabathia and continued his run of excellent pitching, striking out Scooter Gennett and Carlos Gomez to end the threat and keep the score close. Gomez had set the tone for the game by sending Sabathia’s third pitch off the glass face of the restaurant in the second deck above left field, and practically sprinted around the bases. “I feel like I got better tonight,” Sabathia said, adding, “I think tonight was a step in the right direction.” INSIDE PITCH Ichiro Suzuki entered the game as a pinch-hitter and singled, leading to a run in the seventh inning Saturday as the Yankees tied the score. Suzuki, who has started 12 of the 29 games he has played, is batting .377. Joe Girardi said he might start deserving more playing time. “We’ll see,” Girardi said. “He’s been playing really well for us, that’s for sure.” A version of this article appears in print on May 11, 2014, on Page SP3 of the New York edition with the headline: In City Where He Dominated, Sabathia Shows He’s Still Adjusting.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »