Advertisement Supported by By Tim Rohan Curtis Granderson stepped into the batter’s box for the Mets in the sixth inning Monday, to a mixture of boos and polite applause from the Yankee Stadium crowd. He drew a 3-0 count, leaned over the plate and calmly sent a Hiroki Kuroda sinker into the right-field seats for a two-run homer. It was a familiar sight, Granderson rounding the bases here in his usual trot.  Granderson was perhaps at his best as a Yankee, hitting 84 home runs in the 2011 and 2012 seasons combined, taking full advantage of the Stadium’s short porch in right field. This was what the Mets had expected when they signed Granderson to a four-year, $60 million deal in the off-season, making him one of the rare players to go directly between the Yankees and the Mets in his prime.  But this had been a trying season for Granderson. He seemed boxed in by spacious Citi Field and before Monday was hitting only .185, with three home runs and 38 strikeouts. He embodied the Mets’ struggles. Entering Monday, they had only 22 homers, the second lowest total in the majors.  Then the Mets exploded for four home runs, including two to right field, on Monday night as they beat the Yankees, 9-7. Asked what he attributed the power surge to, Manager Terry Collins chuckled and alluded to the fact that they were playing in Yankee Stadium and not Citi Field.  “You try to stay as positive as you can during the tough times, because everybody’s riding you anyway,” Collins said. “Tonight when we went down, 4-1, someone said: ‘Hey let’s just stay close. Let’s just stay close, because if we get a couple of hits, a fly ball can get out of here.’ ”  Granderson’s home run in the sixth tied the game, 4-4, and perhaps gave the Mets a glimpse of what is to come. The deal Granderson signed had been the largest free-agent contract Sandy Alderson had given out as general manager. Granderson made a strong first impression at his introductory news conference when he said, “A lot of the people I’ve met in New York have always said true New Yorkers are Mets fans.” Yankee fans found the comment laughable, and the reaction on social media was swift. The Mets wrote an open letter to their fans, playing off the remark, asking for their public support. “Stand up and say you’re a true New Yorker,” it said. Granderson said Monday that his comment was not scripted, even if the team used it as a promotional device. He said he had enjoyed his four seasons as a Yankee. His favorite memory, he said, was being on-deck when Derek Jeter got his 3,000th hit in July 2011. He chatted with Jeter during batting practice Monday. And, he made sure to compliment Yankee fans, calling them knowledgeable and pointing out how they had supported his foundation. “By no means was it a shot or jab at any of the Yankee fans,” he said before the game. Fans at the Stadium did not seem to hold the preseason comment against Granderson, and really, why should they be hostile toward him? He had a disappointing April, hitting .145 with 26 strikeouts, leading him to be roundly booed at Citi Field. In May, though, he had appeared to be finding his old form. Entering Monday, he was batting .306 with a .375 on-base percentage in May. Granderson said his approach was the same, things just happened to be clicking now. Collins said that lately he had been “swinging the bat as well as anybody on the team.” But given the state of the Mets’ offense that was not exactly saying much. The Mets’ struggles — not only at the plate — had created a sense of urgency only six weeks into the season. Alderson announced Monday that Rafael Montero, 23, one of the team’s top pitching prospects, would replace Jenrry Mejia in the rotation, essentially to provide an adrenaline shot. “We are where we are based on what appears to be meager offense, poor bullpen, solid starting pitching,” Alderson said before the game. But he seemed somewhat optimistic about the offense, noting that despite the low team batting average (.229) and low power numbers (22 home runs), the Mets had scored nearly four runs a game as they entered Monday. If the opener at the Stadium was any indication, Alderson has a right to think things will turn around — for Granderson and the Mets.     Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS