Advertisement  AP Nick Macarchuk, Fordham's basketball coach, has seen Rutgers play a couple of times this season, and he didn't like what he saw. ''They are the kind of team which will cause us problems because of their speed and quickness,'' Macarchuk said today. ''We're a lot better against teams that are big and slow, because that's what we are: big and slow.'' While Fordham (20-12) may not be as quick as Rutgers (17-16), it goes into Monday night's second-round National Invitation Tournament game at the Rutgers Athletic Center playing some of its best basketball of the season. The Rams of the Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference have won six of their last seven games, including an impressive 106-80 victory over Southern in the opening round of the tournament. Their only loss in the stretch was to La Salle in the M.A.A.C. tournament championship game, a contest that was much closer than its 71-61 final score. Advertisement ''We're playing our best basketball since I've been here,'' said Macarchuk, now in his third year. ''No ifs, ands and buts. It's created a very relaxed and easy atmosphere.'' Advertisement Rutgers of the Atlantic 10 Conference goes into the game after an 87-78 victory over Holy Cross, another M.A.A.C. team that beat Fordham twice in the regular season before losing to it in the semifinals of the conference tournament.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. However, the Scarlet Knights have injuries. Earl Duncan, the point guard, has been playing with a bone chip in his ankle and Craig Carter, a reserve guard, is out for the season with a disclosed ankle suffered in the conference tournament. Duncan is the team's second-leading scorer with a 13.6 average. Rutgers' coach, Bob Wenzel, said he has not seen much of Fordham this season although he did get a chance to watch the Rams last week while viewing films of Holy Cross. The big man in the middle for Fordham is Danny O'Sullivan, a 6-foot-11-inch senior who is flanked at forward by 6-9 Damon Lopez and 6-6 Sanford Jenkins. Rutgers' front line consists of Keith Hughes, Donnell Lumpkin and Anthony Duckett, all in the 6-7 to 6-8 range. Hughes, who has averaged a team-leading 18.5 points a game, had 24 points and 11 rebounds against Holy Cross. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 19, 1990, on Page C00004 of the National edition with the headline: Fordham and Rutgers Meet Tonight.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »