Advertisement By FRANK LITSKY and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES The Monday morning quarterbacks found many reasons why the Giants were knocked out of the National Football League playoffs Sunday by the Los Angeles Rams. They said the Giants should have got more than field goals out of their two first-quarter drives. They said if the Giants had run out the clock in the last minute of the first half, they would not have been intercepted and would not have given up the Rams' first touchdown. In truth, the Giants should have scored more points on those first two drives and they might have played more conservatively at the end of the first half. But those contributing factors did not give credit to the Rams. They scored a 19-13 overtime victory and reached the conference championship game because their explosive, big-play offense made just enough big plays. Timing Is Off The Giants played well enough to win. The defense, though it gave up 448 yards, generally limited the damage from Jim Everett's passing and pressured him enough to disrupt his timing patterns. The offense ran the ball so well that Coach Bill Parcells said Fritz Shurmur, the Rams' defensive coordinator, told him after the game: ''You were driving us crazy. We were just guessing what you're doing next.'' Advertisement On their first two possesions, the Giants drove 57 yards to the Rams' 18-yard line and 65 yards to the Rams' 24. Each time, the Giants emerged with a field goal. Advertisement ''It would have helped if we got more points in the first half,'' said Steve DeOssie, the Giants' inside linebacker, ''but the offense was moving the ball effectively. We didn't win because we didn't take advantage of our opportunities. We didn't get touchdowns. We could have put it away early and didn't. Against a team as good as the Rams, if you keep giving them favors, they'll get you.'' Work Is 'Wiped Out' ''Getting field goals instead of touchdowns wasn't the turning point,'' said Bart Oates, the Giants' center. ''Usually, you can pinpoint something, but in this game neither team gained momentum. I thought we were getting there with those field goals, but with that interception and their long pass at the end of the half, all that work we did was wiped out. We did what we wanted to do offensively. We did everything that won games for us.'' ''Whenever you go down and get some points,'' said Ottis Anderson, the Giants' running back, ''you've got to be satisfied. On a drive, you want 6 points. You don't want zero. We got something.'' ''The field goals didn't bother me,'' said Maurice Carthon, the Giants' fullback. ''We were moving the ball. Sure, you look back. If they don't score in the game, it's 6-0 and we look smart.''  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. That 6-0 lead disappeared in the last minute of the first half. With 1 minute 45 seconds to go in the half, the Giants took a punt on their 9-yard line. With 42 seconds to go, they were on their 35. Opting to Pass It seemed a good time for the Giants to run the ball, run out the clock and leave the field with a 6-0 lead. Instead, Phil Simms passed, the Rams intercepted and ran it back to the Giants' 20 with 24 seconds left. On the next play, Everett passed to Willie (Flipper) Anderson for a touchdown, so at halftime the Rams led, 7-6. Parcells said he called for a pass because 35 yards more would have put the Giants in position for a field goal. He said if the Rams were not receiving the second-half kickoff, he would not have passed at that stage. He pointed out that the pass was tipped, which can turn a safe pass into a disaster. After halftime, the Rams passed for 219 yards. Starting in the fourth quarter, they threw shorter passes and settled for consistent but shorter gains. That change had nothing to do with Lawrence Taylor. Advertisement Manhandling by Taylor Everett generally passes from quick drops, so the outside pass rush, which Taylor does so well, is often late. But in the first half, Taylor manhandled Irv Pankey, the Rams' offensive tackle assigned to block him, and got two sacks and one forced fumble. In the second half, Taylor was less effective, not because of the Rams but because of his ankle. Parcells said Taylor's right ankle, which suffered a stress fracture six weeks before, became sore in the second half. Parcells said he asked three times if he wanted to sit out a series to rest the ankle. He said Taylor wanted to keep going, so he stayed in the game. The bottom line was that the Giants, 12-4 and division champions in the regular season, did not win. ''You can't deal with what-if,'' Anderson said. ''The game is over. Our season is over. All you can do is prepare for next season. You go on.'' A Final Injury Report Injury report: The injury to Mark Collins's left ankle on the first play of overtime was diagnosed as a slight fracture, and he was limping badly. Damian Johnson, after his first game since back surgery, walked unsteadily. Oates and Brian Williams may face arthroscopic surgery to remove bone chips from elbows. Mark Bavaro underwent arthroscopic surgery to tighten a ligament in the right knee and faces extensive rehabilitation, although Parcells said he should be sound by minicamp. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 9, 1990, on Page B00009 of the National edition with the headline: Giants Knock, but Rams Answer.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »