Advertisement By SUSAN B. ADAMS THE quarterfinal showing of Arthur Carrington 3d, a 16-year-old tennis player from Boston, in last week's Easter Bowl junior championships in Miami provided more evidence that young black players are making enormous strides in a sport that has long been dominated by white players. The significance of his performance was not lost on Carrington, who entered the Easter Bowl without a junior ranking because he spent last year playing predominantly in men's satellite tournaments, as well as pounding his 200 pounds of puppy fat into a powerful 6-foot-1-inch, 185-pound athlete's body. ''There's nobody out there now doing it in men's tennis,'' he said from Miami. ''I want to show the world that blacks in tennis can be successful, if they get the opportunity.'' Opportunity as well as encouragement were in short supply for many blacks when Carrington's father, Arthur Jr., was playing competitively in the 1960's and 70's. ''Attitudes existed,'' said the father, who is a teaching pro. Advertisement ''My father really had it rough,'' said the younger Carrington, who goes by the nickname Lex (his middle name is Alexander). ''You try not to be resentful about it, but, sure, it motivates you.''  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ''My dad and I, we're a team,'' added Carrington, who moved with his father to the Nick Bollettieri Tennis Academy in Bradenton, Fla., last August. ''I want to win for my family, my city, my people, and for myself.'' Advertisement While it is the potential of Carrington's explosive serve-and-volley style that excites tennis savants, the tournament results of two other black juniors have been even more impressive. Jimmy (J. J.) Jackson of Hendersonville, N.C., and Chanda Rubin of Lafayette, La., finished the 1989 season as the top-ranked players in the United States boys' 14-and-under and United States girls' 14-and-under divisions. It was the first time in history that two black players had held No. 1 rankings simultaneously in the United States Tennis Association junior rankings. In the Easter Bowl, both 14-year-olds step up to the 16-and-under age group and reached the finals, where they lost. ''These kids lead a new breed of highly motivated, promising young black players who are setting their sights on winning the top prizes in pro tennis in the 90's,'' said Seena Hamilton, the founder of the Easter Bowl. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 16, 1990, on Page C00002 of the National edition with the headline: SPORTS WORLD SPECIALS: TENNIS;   A New Era?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »