Advertisement By THOMAS GEORGE and  Over the last 13 years, no matter how far and how circuitous his journey was in the National Football League, Ted Marchibroda always kept one eye on the team with the horseshoe on its helmet. And one day, just maybe, he kept hoping, that horseshoe would bring him back to his football home. "I always felt, 'once a Colt, always a Colt,' and I always had great pride in what we had accomplished," Marchibroda said. "There had always been ties there that were hard to break. I took a lot of ordinary jobs that became extraordinary. But this is all along where I wanted to be." Of course, the where has changed -- from Baltimore to Indianapolis -- and so have so many of the faces and the stadium where the Colts play their games. But this fact has not: Marchibroda inherits a Colts team down on its luck and stumbling just as he did when he became coach in February 1975. A Quick Turnaround He had never been an N.F.L. head coach before. But he took a Colts team that finished 2-12 the previous season and won three straight divisional championships with 10-4, 11-3 and 10-4 records. Then after two straight 5-11 seasons, he was dismissed by Robert Irsay, owner of the Colts, in 1979. Marchibroda then served as an offensive guru with Chicago (1981), Detroit (1982-1983) and Philadelphia (1984-1985) before spending the last five seasons in a similar capacity with the Buffalo Bills. Advertisement And it was with the Bills that he took part in shaping the no-huddle offense that helped carry Buffalo to two straight Super Bowls, and two straight Super Bowl defeats. Advertisement The Colts, meanwhile, had hit bottom, finishing the 1991-92 season with a dismal 1-15 record. Jim Irsay, the Colts vice president and general manager, decided he would look to the past to find the man who could lift his team toward something better. Enter Marchibroda, who turns 61 on March 15 and who finds he is once again wearing a horseshoe on his sleeve. "I'm very excited to be named the head football coach of the Baltimore Colts," he said here 10 days ago in his debut press conference. Oops! Some habits are hard to change. But who cares if Marchibroda occasionally takes the Indianapolis out of Colts if he can put back the old winning ways from Baltimore? This is a franchise that is 61-121-1 in two different cities since he left after the 1979 season and has named five different full-fledged head coaches over that span. The Colts finished 28th in total offense last season. They were as boring as they were awful. And they will quickly get a chance to turn things around. The Colts own the first two choices in the N.F.L. draft on April 26-27, the first team to enjoy such a treat since the Chicago Cardinals in 1958. They own 3 of the first 29 picks. The N.F.L. scouting combine is being held here at the Hoosier Dome this weekend and it is obvious that this draft is one of the deepest in several years.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. A bonanza group of 34 underclassmen help to make it so. Of the 34, as many as 14 are projected as potential first-round picks. Two years ago, only eight underclassmen were selected in the first round and last year only two. The obvious selections for the Colts with their first two picks would be college football's best offensive and defensive players from last season -- the University of Washington defensive tackle Steve Emtman, and Michigan's Heisman Trophy-winning wide receiver Desmond Howard. Time for Another Trade? Advertisement The choices seem obvious. But maybe the Colts will pull off a trade, even it isn't as complex as the famous 1987 transaction that sent Cornelius Bennett from the Colts to the Bills, Greg Bell from the Bills to the Los Angeles Rams and Eric Dickerson from the Rams to the Colts. Possessing such high picks in a deep draft, it would appear the Colts might be better served by swapping them for a bushel of mid-level first- and second-round picks. "Believe me, we've considered it," Marchibroda said. "All of our options are open." Two years ago, the Colts sent Andre Rison and Chris Hinton to the Falcons for the draft's No. 1 pick, which they used to select quarterback Jeff George. He remains the cornerstone of the franchise and one reason Marchibroda was rehired. "We've already got the guy under center," Marchibroda said of George, "and I've had the most success with that type of guy, from Roman Gabriel to Sonny Jurgenson to Bert Jones and Jim Kelly. Jeff George is a rare one and I expect big things from him. We will use the no-huddle offense, though I'm not sure we'll use it exclusively. "I like the no-huddle because I believe you have to attack on offense and the no-huddle makes you do that. The way you win football games is to have big-play people and make the big plays. I've never subscribed to the idea that defense is what matters most in football. You need balance, you need the big play and you don't have to be stronger at every position but you can't be weaker at any." Boring They Won't Be With that type of philosophy, it is difficult to imagine that the Colts will again finish last in the league in offense. Certainly, they won't be boring. And Marchibroda is looking at the long haul as well as the short one. "The players have trickled in here and each time they do, I get them into my office and we talk," he said. "Winning is such a fragile thing and so is team unity. It's the unity and the belief they can win that I'm trying to build first." Marchibroda is counting on history to repeat itself. And it might. He's got the top two draft picks, and he's got the horseshoe. That might be enough. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 9, 1992, on Page 8008005 of the National edition with the headline: PRO FOOTBALL; He Can't Resist The Old Horseshoe.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »