Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMAY 17, 2014
 Danny Duffy carried a perfect game into the seventh inning Saturday night, Billy Butler drove in the only run and the host Kansas City Royals held on to beat the Baltimore Orioles, 1-0. Duffy (2-3) retired the first 20 batters he faced, rarely running the count to three balls and flirting with the first perfect game in franchise history. Adam Jones finally ended it with a weak ground-ball single up the middle with two outs in the seventh. Duffy, 25, bounced back to get Chris Davis on a flyout to end the inning, and then gave up a single to Nelson Cruz to start the eighth. Wade Davis retired the next three batters, and the All-Star closer Greg Holland survived a bases-loaded jam in the ninth for his 11th save. CARDINALS 4, BRAVES 1 The rookie Kolten Wong bolstered St. Louis’s offense with his legs in support of Shelby Miller’s strongest outing of the season, and the host Cardinals beat Atlanta. Advertisement Wong scored on Yadier Molina’s sacrifice fly just beyond the infield to tie it in the fourth. Miller (6-2) allowed a run and five hits in seven innings. Advertisement DIAMONDBACKS 18, DODGERS 7 Paul Goldschmidt homered twice, had a career-high six runs batted in and set a team record with five runs, helping host Arizona rout Los Angeles. PADRES 8, ROCKIES 5 Seth Smith homered against his former team early, Carlos Quentin added a two-run, pinch-hit home run and visiting San Diego hung on to beat Colorado. BLUE JAYS 4, RANGERS 2 Eighth-inning doubles by Kevin Pillar and Jose Reyes produced the go-ahead run for Toronto at Texas. The right-hander Steve Delabar (3-0) retired four straight, striking out the side in the eighth, to earn the victory. ANGELS 6, RAYS 0 C. J. Wilson scattered five hits in his second career shutout and Grant Green homered, leading host Los Angeles past Tampa Bay. MARLINS 5, GIANTS 0 Giancarlo Stanton homered and tripled, and visiting Miami beat San Francisco. Tom Koehler (4-3) struck out seven in seven innings to finally win in five tries away from South Florida after coming into his outing 0-3 on the road.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. TWINS 4, MARINERS 3 Brian Dozier’s three-run homer in the fifth inning put host Minnesota ahead for good, and Samuel Deduno tossed six innings for his first win as the Twins beat Seattle. TIGERS 6, RED SOX 1 Miguel Cabrera hit a solo homer and a run-scoring single, Rick Porcello pitched eight solid innings for his sixth straight win, and red-hot Detroit beat host Boston. Advertisement It was the 10th consecutive road win for the Tigers, who are a major-league-best 26-12. Detroit won for the 14th time in 17 games. ATHLETICS 6, INDIANS 2 Brandon Moss hit a two-run homer and drove in three runs and Josh Donaldson also batted in three runs, helping visiting Oakland overcome the ejection of starter Scott Kazmir in the second inning to beat Cleveland. Kazmir was ejected after yelling at the plate umpire Jerry Layne about the strike zone. PHILLIES 12, REDS 1 Cole Hamels threw seven sharp innings to earn his 100th career win, Domonic Brown had a career-best five R.B.I. and host Philadelphia beat Cincinnati to end a four-game losing streak. CUBS 3, BREWERS 0 Edwin Jackson struck out 11 in seven innings and Welington Castillo hit a two-run double to lead host Chicago to a win over Milwaukee. ASTROS 6, WHITE SOX 5 Jason Castro hit a three-run homer and Dexter Fowler homered and drove in two runs to help host Houston outlast Chicago. DIAMONDBACKS HIRE LA RUSSA Tony La Russa is back in the big leagues, though he will not be filling out lineup cards anytime soon. Arizona hired La Russa, a Hall of Fame manager, as its chief baseball officer, hoping he can help turn around the team after one of the worst starts in franchise history. A version of this article appears in print on May 18, 2014, on Page SP4 of the New York edition with the headline: In Shutting Out Orioles, Duffy Flirts With the Royals’ First Perfect Game.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »