Advertisement By THOMAS GEORGE and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES After the game Saturday afternoon, Ronnie Lott of the San Francisco 49ers stood at his locker under the glare of camera lights and was quizzed about Minnesota's first drive, a 70-yard, 14-play and nearly eight-minute affair that ended in a Viking field goal and a 3-0 lead. ''We can't let people drive the ball on us like that,'' Lott, a safety, said, his eyes cold, his voice stern. ''No way. Hey, the defense can play better. You guys all look at the scoreboard, but we have to look at everything. And when we do, we realize our defense can still improve leaps and bounds just like the whole team can.'' Was he kidding? San Francisco had just demolished Minnesota by 41-13 at Candlestick Park, and the playoff victory vaulted San Francisco (15-2) into the National Conference championship game, where the 49ers will meet the Los Angeles Rams (13-5). The 49ers had shut down Herschel Walker and Anthony Carter, limiting the Vikings to 86 rushing yards - Walker to 29 -and Carter to four receptions for 44 yards. No, Lott wasn't kidding. Of all the 49ers who talk about the team's standard of excellence, Lott is the pacesetter. He is to the 49ers' defense what Joe Montana, the quarterback, is to the offense. The 6-foot, 200-pound Lott, a nine-year veteran from Southern California, was recently named to the Pro Bowl for the fourth consecutive season and the eighth time over all, and he rivals Montana as the most respected 49er among his teammates. Overshadowed by Offense Few people, if any, in the National Football League regard him second to any player in fierceness, competitiveness and as a hitter. Lott's 58-yard interception returned for a touchdown early in the fourth quarter Saturday was what gave San Francisco a 34-6 lead and buried the Vikings for good. Advertisement ''Our backs were bent but that broke us,'' Walker said of Lott's theft and score. ''Their offense overshadows their defense, but their defense is good enough to win games on its own.'' Advertisement Lott and the 49ers' defense seldom hear compliments. Each game, Montana and San Francisco's other stars on offense, Roger Craig and Jerry Rice, are hailed. But in most games, the 49ers' defense is what makes the offensive performances hold up. The Heart of the Defense Against the Vikings, Lott also made three tackles, broke up a pass and recovered a fumble. But his contribution cannot be measured only in numbers. He is the heart of the 49ers' defense, and the other 10 defensive players on the field look to him for leadership. Lott would not have it any other way.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ''It's a role I accepted from the first day I stepped on the football field here,'' said Lott, who was selected by the 49ers in the first round of the 1981 draft. ''I've never feared giving a piece of myself to the team. It's gotten to the point where if I'm not that kind of athlete, I'm a failure. And really, that's what it's all about. As important as the wins and the honors, that feeling I get from my teammates is what I will remember long after football. ''You see, the Vikings may have nine Pro Bowlers, but football is a team game. You have to have that feeling of family and trust to be a champion. A great example is how a lot of teams haze their rookies, making them do stupid musical shows and embarrassing them in camp in front of the veterans as a way of earning acceptance. I have to credit Bill Walsh, George Seifert and the 49ers' organization for never letting that happen since I've been here. You're a 49er from the moment you walk in here. All we say is come in, you're a part, now do your job.'' Not Slowed by Injury Lott missed four games this season because of an ankle injury, but his performance upon his return did not differ from that before the injury. Now the 49ers prepare for the Rams, their fierce N.F.C. West divisional rival and one of only two teams (along with the Green Bay Packers) to defeat the 49ers this season. San Francisco lost to the Rams by 13-12 at Candlestick on Oct. 1, but beat the Rams by 30-27 in Anaheim, Calif., on Dec. 11. ''We know everything about the Rams and they know everything about us,'' Lott said. ''It's not going to be a game of surprises. It's a game where our younger guys - I call them the Pepsi Generation - have to keep doing their part.'' But as far as the 49ers' defense is concerned, all will follow the ''old'' guy, Lott, No. 42, who at age 30 continues to make each generation his own. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 8, 1990, on Page C00005 of the National edition with the headline: 49er Defense Getting Tougher.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »