Advertisement By JACK CURRY and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES Out of respect for the Los Angeles Rams' speedy wide receivers, the Giants' defensive backs played seven yards off the line of scrimmage for the first two halves today. The only time Mark Collins, a left cornerback, moved up to bump Willie (Flipper) Anderson came in overtime. Collins and the Giants paid dearly for the change in strategy. Jim Everett tossed a precise 30-yard pass that Anderson snared over a tumbling Collins 1 minute 6 seconds into overtime to give the Rams their 19-13 victory. ''We had to put pressure on the receivers,'' Collins said. ''We had to make something happen. The coaches had us move up. I got a good bump in on him. I saw the ball. I couldn't get over enough to get it. I was right there. It was a great catch and a great throw. End of story.'' Anderson knew the Giants were desperate for a crucial defensive play so he was ecstatic when Collins inched closer to him. Advertisement ''They can only bump me for five yards and then it's a foot race after that,'' said Anderson, who caught only two passes in the game - both for touchdowns - and dropped at least two others. ''I'm going to win most of those. I was glad he was up there. There was no one up top to help him.'' Advertisement The Giants had mounted a huge rush in an effort to force the Rams out of field-goal range, leaving Collins one-on-one against Anderson without any help from a safety. Ironically, Collins had intercepted an Everett pass on a similar play in the third quarter by reaching over Anderson. If Collins had his way, he might not even have been on the field for the final play. Four plays earlier, Collins had rolled his left ankle after tackling Pete Holohan, the Rams' tight end. Collins tried to alert the coaches to replace him, but his efforts were futile. ''I tried to signal to come out, but the coaches didn't see me,'' Collins said. ''I'm not using it as an excuse.'' But Sheldon White had an excuse for the 27-yard pass-interference call that gave the Rams the ball on the 25 and set the stage for Anderson's catch, which came after a 5-yard penalty had backed the Rams up to the 30.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 'It Was a Bad Call' White and Anderson dived across the turf for a long pass and the replay showed there was contact between the players. But White, who dressed and left Giants Stadium quickly, said: ''The ball wasn't catchable. It wasn't even close. Superman couldn't have caught that ball.'' Collins, who said he only saw the replay on the scoreboard, agreed with his teammate. ''I thought it was a bad call,'' Collins said. ''Those guys aren't perfect. They make mistakes. It's a shame that it had to happen that way because it took the fun out of it.'' Anderson and Everett viewed the play differently. ''If the ref has any respect for his job,'' Anderson said, ''he makes that call.'' ''I think Flipper could have caught it if he didn't have the extra weight on his back,'' Everett added. Advertisement Coach Bill Parcells of the Giants refused to discuss the pass-interference call. ''I'm not going to say anything about that,'' he said. ''You guys saw the play.'' In addition to his tender ankle, Collins had a gash above his right eye and the memory of a painful play that he will carry into training camp and beyond. As he limped to the trainers' room, Collins paused and said: ''I'm a cornerback. I gotta be tough.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 8, 1990, on Page C00001 of the National edition with the headline: The Ending Boils Down To a 'Bump'.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »