Advertisement By STEVEN CRIST Every sport has its overpaid athletes, and thoroughbred racing's are the stakes-caliber grass horses. Over the last decade, track operators and racing officials became entranced by the idea that grass rather than dirt was the footing of the future. The Arlington Million in 1980 offered the sport's first seven-digit purse, and other tracks began designing new grass races and enriching older ones. In 1983, All Along enjoyed a six-week roll that seemed to justify the new emphasis. After winning the Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe in Paris, she was flown to North America and in five weeks swept the Rothmans International at Woodbine, the Turf Classic at Aqueduct and the Washington D.C. International at Laurel. She was named the Horse of the Year, and tracks everywhere jacked up their grass purses for the following season, anticipating another wave of champion Europeans who would become the stars of the American racing scene each autumn. It has never happened. The Breeders' Cup began the next year, changing the face of fall racing forever. The very best Europeans occasionally come over for the two cup races on the grass, but first they run in the Arc on the first Sunday in October. There is no time for a race in between that and the Breeders' Cup. So American racing is left with a slew of rich grass races and few horses worthy of contesting them. Advertisement The situation may have hit its lowest point ever at Belmont Park on Sunday, when a Grade III field turned out for the Grade I $473,600 Man o'War Stakes. The six locals who ran were so thoroughly mediocre that the bettors made two European imports the top betting choices. They were almost dead right, as Defensive Play from England won it and Ode from France ran third. Advertisement Defensive Play and Ode, however, are not the international champions that a $473,600 purse is supposed to attract, and all Europe must have been laughing that these two took home a combined $340,992 - more than their previous combined earnings in 18 European starts. The proof of how ordinary both of them truly are was the colt who finished in between them, beaten just half a length for all the money: Shy Tom, a familiar figure in American racing for the last two years. A useful and honest colt, Shy Tom was 10th in last year's Kentucky Derby and a distant third in the Travers. His grass record is 4 for 15, with stakes victories in races named the Transylvania, Palm Beach and Jefferson Cup Handicap. People who don't know any better will hail Defensive Play as an important new addition to the top flight of international racing, because he won the Grade I Man o'War at Belmont. In fact, Defensive Play is half a length better than Shy Tom, and neither horse should be running for that much money or prestige.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Shy Tom is trained by D. Wayne Lukas, and his very presence in the Man o'War was an example of why Lukas sets earnings records virtually every season. There were at least a dozen other minor New York stakes horses with nothing better to do Sunday who could have finished second or even first in this Man o'War, but it never occurred to their trainers to take a shot. Several were instead entered for a $47,000 allowance race Saturday. Lukas is almost always represented in rich races, partly because he has so many horses in his nationwide stable but also because he is not intimidated by the names of major races or fooled by the puffery that these are tests of champions. Many of the owners and trainers who whine about inadequate purses and opportunities should instead take advantage of situations like Sunday's, when too much money is up for grabs and it doesn't take a champion to grab some. Track operators may also want to consider whether it is not time to concede that American racing in the fall will never be a showcase for European stars, and reconsider the excessive purses being offered. In New York this year, more than a dozen $100,000 and $200,000 races for sprinters and fillies were slashed to $75,000 or $150,000, yet Belmont still guarantees more than $400,000 for the Man o'War and more than $600,000 for the Turf Classic on Oct. 7. That money could be allocated more wisely. The nominations for the Jockey Club Gold Cup at Belmont on Oct. 6 were released yesterday, notable for two prominent absentees and one intriguing possibility. Neither Unbridled nor Summer Squall was nominated, which casts doubt on their handlers' previous assertions that the colts will be running in the Breeders' Cup Classic at Belmont on Oct. 27 despite New York's ban on Lasix. The Gold Cup is the ideal prep for the Classic this year, since it is run at the same track and same mile-and-a-quarter distance. Summer Squall, who was scratched from the Super Derby on Sunday because of a fever, is a superb competitor when he is right but is running out of opportunities to regain the 3-year-old title from Housebuster. Unbridled, who has lost all four stakes starts since winning the Kentucky Derby, including defeats to inferior stablemates in his last two starts, is quickly losing credibility as a top racehorse. Advertisement The Gold Cup intrigue could come from Go for Wand, the sensational 3-year-old filly, who could earn the Horse of the Year title in the Gold Cup. She has won her division's title already, and has nothing to lose and everything to gain by trying the race. Criminal Type will be trying to redeem himself in that spot, and Izvestia, the Canadian triple crown winner, is expected to run. If Go for Wand beat them, the season would be hers. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 25, 1990, on Page D00026 of the National edition with the headline: ON HORSE RACING;   When Big Money Doesn't Translate Into Quality.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »