Advertisement By JANET NELSON ALMOST every skier occasionally experiences a down day when the skis won't turn, the feet won't stay together, you're up when you should be down, off balance and out of sync. The problem is not unusual; the best skiers in the world admit to down days. The difference is that excellent skiers have developed secret ways to deal with this trying condition. Twelve of the best skiers in the United States are on the Professional Ski Instructors of America National Team, which does synchronized skiing demonstrations at various various events. These 12 skiers are selected for their ability to teach as well as their technical knowledge and nimble feet. But it's the serpentine turns, figure eights down the fall line and follow-the-leader skiing for which they are best known. The National Team is selected every four years from about 150 skiers who are nominated by members of the nine ski instructors divisions. On average, the team members have skied for 24 years, they are either ski-school directors or supervisors and trainers of other instructors. These skiers do share the occasional down day, however, with ordinary mortals. How do they get rid of the poor performance and get back on their skis? Even though the members of the team often perform in mirror-image formation, they each have their own individual style when free skiing and their own individual solutions, which sometimes conflict, to the down-day syndrome. Advertisement Mike Porter, who has coached the National Team for the past 13 years and is a training supervisor at the Vail, Colo., ski school, moves back to simple turns to remind himself of the fundamentals. Jerry Berg, a team member for two years and a supervisor of training at the Aspen, Colo., ski school, goes for something more difficult to restore his top performance. Advertisement ''I find the best thing is to go to easier terrain and simply do basic, solid turns,'' said Porter. ''I don't mean easier turns. The same level turns, just slower and less intense on a gentler hill. If I'm getting too analytical and thinking too much, this takes the mental side out of it. Gradually I build up the turns and get my balance and rhythm back.'' Porter maintained that this exercise works for skiers of every level and is an ideal way to warm up. While Porter goes to easier terrain, Berg goes to moguls for a wake-up run. ''When I feel I don't have good performance on skis, I get in the air off bumps and ski aggressively to wake myself up,'' he said. ''The bumps are irregular and you have to have good timing and be accurate to ski well.'' Berg doesn't recommend skiing moguls for all recreational skiers. But he believes that trying to ski something that's more difficult - a steeper slope or ungroomed snow, for instance - makes the easier, smoother terrain seem tame when you return to it.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Victor Gerdin, a member of the National Team for six years and director of the Snowmass, Colo., ski school, says that his bad days are caused by bad timing. ''The best way to correct this is to not get hung up on one thing in turning or one element of skiing,'' he said. ''The thing to do is to move your entire body up and down while skiing. Flex and extend the legs, jump off the snow, make the skis light and move your center of gravity. Try to make skiing seem like dancing.'' According to Gerdin, that exercise makes a skier more fluid when transferring weight to the new turning ski. In moguls, he says this exercise helps skiers keep their center of gravity forward and makes them lighter and more flexible. David Merriam, also in his sixth year on the National Team and a coach of instructors at the Mount Mansfield, Vt., ski school, has a similar antidote for his skiing blahs. ''When my rhythm is off,'' he said, ''I count to myself or try to ski to the cadence of another skier who seems to have a good rhythmic run going. You can also sing a song that has a good beat to get your rhythm back.'' Merriam says a major component of rhythmic skiing is linking turns. To do that, he says, you need to focus on the turn ahead and forget the last one. ''Let the turns shape themselves in a round manner rather than being jerky,'' he said. ''Don't rush it. Let the turns flow in S-shapes.'' Making S-shaped turns is also the goal of Gary Posekian, a second-year team member and technical supervisor at the Mammoth Mountain, Calif., ski school. ''If things aren't going quite right, I typically concentrate on putting pressure on the outside ski very early in the turn,'' he said. ''I exert force on that ski, because when I don't do this, then I have to put too much pressure on it at the finish of the turn. That produces a harsh Z-shaped turn rather than an S-turn. ''When the turning ski is pressured correctly and early,'' he said, ''you don't have to work so hard to get the skis across the hill at the finish.'' Advertisement The solutions that these top skiers use might work for any skier. It won't hurt to try them: ski easy to take the mental side out of skiing, ski hard to test yourself, correct timing by being fluid with your entire body, establish rhythm by counting or singing to yourself, make S-shaped turns by pressuring the outside ski early in the turn. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 8, 1990, on Page C00011 of the National edition with the headline: ON YOUR OWN;   Strategies for Salvaging an Off Day on the Slopes.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »