Advertisement  GOLF Levi Leads in Canada Wayne Levi shot a 68 yesterday and took a one-stroke lead in the Canadian Open in Oakville, Ontario. Severe thunderstorms interrupted second-round play and 11 golfers were to finish the round today, but none appeared to have a chance to place among the leaders. (AP) HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL Showdown Fizzles This year's season kicked off last night with a game many expected to be the matchup of the year. But the game between Union Endicott, the state's top team last year in a poll of New York State sportswriters, and Bellport, last year's 10th-ranked team, did not live up to expectations as Bellport won, 30-7, in Endicott, N.Y. ''This game got a bigger buildup than I expected,'' said Joe Cipp, the Bellport coach. ''The unfortunate thing about these type of games is that often one team makes a whole bunch of mistakes and the other team winds up blowing them out.'' And that's exactly what happened. Bellport converted fumbles on Endicott's first two possessions to open a 14-0 lead early in the first quarter and it coasted from there. Antonio Oferral, the Bellport quarterback and defensive back, rushed 8 times for 119 yards while scoring two touchdowns and intercepting a pass. Tennis Ivanisevic Advances Second-seeded Goran Ivanisevic of Yugoslavia advanced to the semifinals of a tournament in Bordeaux, France, yesterday, beating Fabrice Santoro of France, 6-2, 6-3. Guillermo Perez-Roldan of Argentina advanced with a victory over Thierry Champion of France, 4-6, 6-2, 6-1. Guy Forget of France also gained a place in the semifinals, defeating Lawson Duncan of the United States, 6-1, 6-7, 6-0. Forget, seeded fourth, will meet eighth-seeded Ronald Agenor of Haiti, who eliminated Tomas Nydahl of Sweden, 6-0, 6-1. (AP) Leconte Upset: Top-seeded Henri Leconte of France was upset by Michael Tauson of Denmark, 6-4, 6-3, in the quarterfinals of the Geneva Open yesterday. 22. Horst Skoff of Austria struggled to a 7-6, 7-6 victory over Renzo Furlan of Italy. Sergi Bruguera of Spain overwhelmed Horacio de la Pena, 6-0, 6-2. (AP) We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 15, 1990, on Page 1001045 of the National edition with the headline: RESULTS PLUS.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »