Advertisement By PHIL BERGER and  This was at the final news conference here earlier this week for the Foreman-Stewart bout here Saturday night. For reporters who had seen Stewart react as if he was intimidated when he fought Mike Tyson in December 1990, it was impossible to ignore the rings of perspiration. Were those sweat stains the sign of a fighter geared for battle, with his adrenaline pumping already? Or was it fear-of-Foreman at work on Stewart's nervous system? Foreman, the former heavyweight champion, and Stewart are scheduled to meet at the Thomas and Mack Center in a 10-round bout to be televised live by Home Box Office. For Foreman, it is the second fight in a two-bout deal with HBO that guarantees him $5 million per appearance. The bout's promoter, Bob Arum, said Stewart will get $250,000 for fighting Foreman. Advertisement Beyond this match, though, are serious opportunities for both fighters. For the 43-year-old Foreman (70-3, 66 knockouts), a victory over the underdog Stewart will keep alive a chance at one more shot at the heavyweight title now held by Evander Holyfield. Advertisement "If Larry Holmes beats Evander Holyfield on June 19, then the obvious fight is Holmes-Foreman in the fall in Las Vegas," said Arum, who promotes both former champions. Like Foreman, the 42-year-old Holmes once held the heavyweight title and has come out of retirement at what constitutes a late age for a boxer. And what if Holyfield, who beat Foreman by decision a year ago, defeats Holmes? Foreman Won't Stay Idle Arum said that Holyfield's promoter, Dan Duva, has told him that Foreman would get a shot at the heavyweight champion, but that it would not be the fight after the Holmes bout. "It'd be the fight after," Arum said. Should Foreman's objective of one last heavyweight title fight be put on hold, don't expect him to lie idle. Foreman mentioned Riddick Bowe as a possible interim opponent; Arum spoke of Tommy Morrison. But all the future scenarios for Foreman are based on his beating the 27-year-old Stewart (28-3, 28 knockouts). And Stewart was acting as if that prospect was unlikely. Trying to Shed an Image  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "I just don't see myself losing to him," said Stewart. "I'm a young version of George." Should Stewart pull off the upset and beat Foreman, it would accelerate his career, putting him in position to challenge for the title. It would also go a long way toward shooting down the notion that Stewart cannot win the big fights. In fact, Stewart's only losses have come against top opponents: Holyfield, Tyson and Michael Moorer. In the Tyson match, the perception was that Stewart "froze," consumed by jitters about coping with Tyson's heavy punches. Tyson knocked him out in one round. But against Holyfield and Moorer, Stewart showed he had the punch to make things uncomfortable for the big-name fighters. He had both Holyfield and Moorer in trouble before they rallied and stopped him. Advertisement "He's lost those three bouts," said Foreman, "but all of a sudden everything can be erased if he beats George Foreman." At the weigh-in today, Foreman was at 259 pounds and Stewart at 227. In a co-feature Saturday, James Toney (28-0-2, 20 knockouts), the International Boxing Federation middleweight champion, will defend his title against Glen (Big Bad) Wolfe (27-2-1, 24 knockouts). Today, both Toney and Wolfe weighed in at 160 pounds. Toney won the title last May when he scored a shocking knockout over Michael Nunn. One More for Chavez MEXICO CITY, April 10 (AP) -- Unbeaten Julio Cesar Chavez retained his World Boxing Council junior welterweight title tonight with a fifth-round knockout of Angel Hernandez of Puerto Rico. It was the 80th victory, and 69th by knockout, for the 29-year-old Mexican. In an earlier title fight on the card, Akinobu Hiranaka of Japan demolished Puerto Rico's Edwin Rosario in less than 2 minutes of the first round to win the World Boxing Association junior welterweight title. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 11, 1992, on Page 1001039 of the National edition with the headline: BOXING; Stewart-Foreman Is No Joke for Either Contestant.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »