Advertisement By BARBARA LLOYD The Audi Southern Ocean Racing Conference, the annual yacht-racing series in Florida, stands to be revitalized this winter by the return of the prestigious 50-Foot Class. As many as 15 of the innovative Fifties are slated to begin racing this week, but on their own terms. They will sail separate inshore races from the rest of the fleet. And they will not compete next Sunday in the event's 400-mile overnight race from St. Petersburg to Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Race results from the event will count as part of the Fifties 1990 World Cup series. The 12-day Audi S.O.R.C. begins Thursday in St. Petersburg. Organizers are expecting more than 60 sailboats, 30 to 50 feet, each sailing under one of three handicap divisions. The 50-Foot fleet, one of the most competitive in modern sailboat racing, has ignored the S.O.R.C. since 1987. The split came on the heels of an incident in 1987 in the Bahamas, a stopover point in the S.O.R.C. that year. Owners of the Fifties complained that dock space and accommodations were grossly inadequate. They refused to return the next year. The group went off on its own in 1988 and 1989, developing a race format that focused on daily round-the-buoy sailing instead of the long, overnight races that were basic to the S.O.R.C. Advertisement Florida Circuit Revamped The Florida circuit was revamped last year in an effort to lure former racers back to the fold. But organizers concede that more needs to be done to restore the series to its heyday in the 1970's. At its peak in 1973, the series drew 135 boats. The 1990 Audi S.O.R.C. is likely to be enlivened with the comeback of the Fifties. But the event remains ''status quo'' for drawing other racers, Peter Grimm, chairman of the race committee, said last week.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Florida circuit has been declining in popularity since the mid-1980's. The America's Cup race series in Australia siphoned off the best sailors in 1987. And changes in the International Offshore Rule, once yachting's premier handicap division, has weakened the I.O.R. fleet. For more than a decade, the international offshore boats were the driving force for grand prix racing on the southern circuit. Advertisement The trend in sailboat competition today favors day races and new handicap rules. Audi, the German car manufacturer, also sponsors a sailboat series in January at Key West, Fla. The event, which schedules only day races and no overnight races, has grown substantially since the first series in 1988. This year, 120 sailboats competed, including 16 of the 50-Foot yachts, a record number for that class. #48 Years of Tradition The Southern circuit is bound by 48 years of tradition involving five yacht clubs. The 400-mile race that begins Sunday links clubs on the two Florida coasts. To cancel it would be to cut the heart out of the S.O.R.C. ''This is something we're going to have to address,'' Grimm said. ''People don't seem to want to do the distance races, but we would have to eliminate one yacht club or another. To restructure the S.O.R.C. in its present form is impossible.'' The 50-Foot Class is likely to take up some of the slack. The boats are showstoppers wherever they compete, not so much for their speed as for their responsiveness on the race course. Aggressive tactics by their crew, usually 14-15 sailors, produce finishes with split-seconds between winner and loser. Boats from Japan, West Germany and Britain as well as the United States are active on the circuit. David Rosow of Southport, Conn., owner of a new Bruce Farr design, the 50-Foot Springbok, won the Audi Yachting Race Week at Key West, but not without a fierce fight. The class owners are a close-knit group. But on the race course, they show no mercy. ''We go out to dinner together after a race,'' Rosow said. ''But on the water, we're at one another's throats.'' ----Yachtsman of the Year Larry Klein, 37 years old, of San Diego, the 1989 world champion in both the J/24 and the Etchells 22 sailboats, has been selected Rolex yachtsman of the year. Jody Swanson, 24, of Buffalo, winner of the 1989 Rolex International Women's Keelboat Championship and the Adams Cup, was selected as yachtswoman of the year. . . . Congere, the 77-foot maxi-boat owned by Bevin Koeppel, a New York real-estate investor, was lost at sea Feb. 5 in the Atlantic Ocean near Brazil. Neither Koeppel nor his crew of 24 was seriously injured in the incident. The boat ran aground, hitting a sandbar about 100 yards off the beach in the Buenos Aires to Rio de Janeiro Race. Built in 1987 by Merrifield-Roberts of Bristol, R.I., the yacht won the 1988 Newport-to-Bermuda Race. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 28, 1990, on Page D00027 of the National edition with the headline: 50-Footers Are Returning To Revitalize Race Series.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »