Advertisement  Special to The New York Times From day one, the odds that the Soviet yacht Fazisi would make it round the world were slim. The 82-foot single-mast sloop, one of 22 vessels competing in the Whitbread Round the World Race, lost her chief sponsor, Pepsico, just before the race began on Sept. 2 near Southampton, England. The yacht, the first of its kind built in the Soviet Union, was barely completed in time for the first leg of the 32,932-nautical-mile race. It was built by Fazis, a Soviet conglomerate that builds tankers and runs a brewery. The Soviet Government was not involved in the effort. The Fazisi raced for Punta del Este, Uruguay, without a sea trial in which to iron out equipment imperfections and staffed by a crew with little experience in large-scale yacht racing. Once there, the skipper, Aleksei Grishenko, snapped under the pressure of representing the Soviet Union in a risky, resourceless venture, his colleagues said, and hanged himself from a tree. Despite the crisis, the 18 crew members decided to continue the race, but the publicity surrounding Grishenko's death made it even more difficult to raise the money they needed. The crew, unaccustomed to the free-market world, made erratic fund-raising efforts and the race remained, for them, a hand-to-mouth affair. Advertisement Decent Showing But, confounding the skeptics, Fazisi arrived in Fort Lauderdale on Wednesday, in 13th position - a respectable showing - to the cheers of hundreds of observers. The race will resume on May 5, when the last leg - about 3,000 nautical miles - will be run to Southampton. Advertisement That the Fazisi made it here at all may be attributed not only to the determination of the crew but also to Skip Novak, a 37-year-old Chicago native and veteran of three previous Whitbread races who took over the helm after Grishenko's death. ''For the crew, this was something much more than a yacht race,'' Novak said Wednesday. ''They were under a lot of pressure to succeed, to go into the West and operate as a private entity. Aleksei felt personally responsible for the whole thing.'' Sergei Stanetsky, a 31-year-old electronics engineer from Odessa who is the watch captain, said Grishenko did not sleep for a week before arriving in Uruguay. ''He was worried about our hull; he was worried about everything,'' Stanetsky said. ''He kept checking the hull with a flashlight.'' Pepsico Drops Out Pepsico's decision not to extend its sponsorship option dealt a hard blow to a crew unaccustomed to the vagaries of corporate decision-making. Pepsico ''fulfilled its contractual obligation,'' to help pay for some of the Fazisi's start-up costs, Novak said, but withdrew from the race itself when criticized in ''middle America'' for sponsoring a Soviet vessel at a time two American boats dropped plans to compete because they lacked sponsors.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. As a result, ''we were depending on people's charity to get us around the world,'' Novak said. But here, on the final layover of the six-leg race, the Fazisi and her small band of supporters have caught on to the fund-raising game, helped by Rae Glasgow, a marketing expert from New Zealand who took pity on the Fazisi during its stopover in Auckland and volunteered to raise money in the United States. The crew members' hotel here is putting them up for no charge. Plans for the next three weeks include a benefit art auction on May 3 in Palm Beach, 40 miles north of here, featuring several pieces of contemporary Soviet works of art provided by the Ministry of Culture in Moscow. New Sails Pledged A Tampa, Fla., sail manufacturer has pledged $80,000 worth of new sails for the yacht's trip to Southampton, money that the company plans to recoup by staging a four-race series off Fort Lauderdale on April 20, 22, 28 and 29 between the Fazisi and the Card, a 79-foot Swedish ketch. Advertisement While other yachts in the race basked in the comfort of sponsorship from major corporations, the Fazisi had to make do with free airplane tickets from Aeroflot, a raffle organized by an Auckland radio station and some extra cash from a Uruguayan wool exporter. The sloop was forced to sail the first five legs of the race using the same set of sails while the race's leader, the New Zealand ketch Steinlager 2, went through more than 100. Competing crews, none of which were as beset with problems as the Fazisi, nicknamed it the Submarine because it is so low in the water. The boat's 440-pound boom snapped north of the Kerguelen Islands in the Indian Ocean, the keel had to be replaced. A spinnaker pole broke. The generator and gas stove were out of commission, and the yacht was the only one in the race not equipped with a computer to study weather patterns. ''We made it around the world,'' Novak said. ''It's amazing. It really is a miracle.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 13, 1990, on Page A00023 of the National edition with the headline: Against the Sea And the Odds.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »