Advertisement By CLIFTON BROWN and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES For three quarters, it appeared that the Knicks would have enjoyed visiting Disney World tonight more than visiting Orlando Arena. But after trailing by 8 points late in the third quarter, New York tightened its defense, raised its intensity and rallied for a 117-110 victory over the expansion Orlando Magic. The victory was the fourth in a row for the Knicks (31-16), and it gave them a half-game lead over Philadelphia in the Atlantic Division. A key strategic move by Coach Stu Jackson played a major role in New York's victory. For the entire fourth quarter, the Knicks used a smaller lineup, featuring Rod Strickland and Mark Jackson in the backcourt and either Trent Tucker and or Gerald Wilkins at forward. To that point, quickness was the biggest advantage Orlando had. But the Knicks' smaller lineup prevented the Magic from getting easy baskets. Orlando scored only 21 points in the fourth quarter. 'Slow the Ball Down' ''The small lineup gave us an opportunity each time down the floor to slow the ball down,'' Stu Jackson said. ''We got them into a little more of a half-court contest, and we were able to prevail, which we should have.'' Advertisement It was a difficult triumph for the Knicks, despite a dominating performance by Patrick Ewing: 35 points, 13 rebounds, 7 blocked shots. Advertisement ''Patrick is playing with a lot of confidence,'' said Sidney Green, the former Knick, who gave up 3 inches trying to defend the 7-foot Ewing tonight. ''He wants it more this year. He's leading by example. He's my M.V.P.'' Despite Ewing, the score was tied at 103-103 with 4 minutes remaining. A tip-in by Charles Oakley gave the Knicks a 2-point lead. Then Strickland stole the ball from Sam Vincent (20 points) as Vincent was driving to the basket. On the trip down court, Wilkins was fouled by Otis Smith. Wilkins made both free throws, giving the Knicks a 107-103 lead with 2:53 remaining.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Ewing Free Throws Vincent was fouled on a drive to the basket, but he only made one of two free throws to put New York's lead at 107-104. Then Ewing was fouled by Green as they jockeyed for post-up position. Ewing made both free throws, giving New York a 109-104 lead with 2:28 remaining. The game-clinching defensive play followed, and it was made by Jackson, who stole a cross-court pass from Vincent. Jackson passed to Wilkins for a breakaway dunk, giving the Knicks a 111-104 lead with 2:05 remaining. Orlando got no closer than 6 points thereafter. The Knicks had lost once here this season, and for most of the game tonight, the raucous sellout crowd of 15,077 sensed another Magic victory. Despite the Knicks' height advantage, Orlando outrebounded them, 56-47. Terry Catledge led the Magic with 28 points. ''They don't match up with us, but conversely we don't match up well with them and it gives us problems,'' Stu Jackson said. ''Their quickness causes us problems in transition and on the backboards. They use their disadvantage to an advantage.'' But the backcourt of Strickland and Jackson negated that advantage. For Strickland, who has been unhappy with his playing time and asked to be traded last week, playing the entire fourth quarter was a surprise. He finished with 7 points and 5 rebounds. ''It was a good situation for the quick lineup tonight,'' Strickland said. ''It's hard just coming in playing a few minutes then coming out. But when you're in there for a while, you don't force things. You just let it flow.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 7, 1990, on Page B00012 of the National edition with the headline: With Smaller Lineup, Knicks Rally to Win.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »