Advertisement By CLIFTON BROWN and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES Despite their contention to the contrary, the Boston Celtics still prevail or perish with their starters. Tonight, they prevailed. The Celtics got only 17 points from their bench in their 116-105 victory over the Knicks at Boston Garden. And the bench only scored 4 points in the first three quarters. But the starting lineup was so splendid, the lack of depth was not a factor. Larry Bird had a triple double with 24 points, 18 rebounds, and 10 assists. Robert Parish had 18 points and 10 rebounds. Kevin McHale 21 points and 9 rebounds. Reggie Lewis had 22 points and Dennis Johnson had 14. The Celtics talked all season about how much their bench had improved. But these are the playoffs, and if the Celtics are going to lose, they will do so with their best players on the court. The Knicks felt their superior depth would be an advantage during the series, but if Boston's starters cannot be contained, the Knicks' bench will be moot. Inside Power ''We always go to our power, and that's when we force it inside to Kevin and Robert,'' Bird said. ''We did a good job of moving the ball around.'' Advertisement Some coaches and scouts believe that Boston's front line of Bird, McHale and Parish is the best to ever play the game. And its performance tonight did nothing to hurt that argument. Their size and skill causes matchup problems for almost every team in the National Basketball Association. When the game started, 6-foot-8-inch Kiki Vandeweghe was defending Larry Bird, who is 6-9. Kenny Walker, at 6-8, was defending 6-11 McHale. Advertisement ''We have some size advantages and some matchups that we definitely want to exploit,'' said Jimmy Rodgers, the Celtics' coach. ''We were able to do that more in the second half. We controlled the pace of the game, got the pace the way we wanted it, and got to the free-throw line.''  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Celtics made 26 of 27 free throws and the Knicks hit only 22 of 35. Two-Pronged Attack When the Knicks built a 7-point lead in the second quarter, they did it by hitting outside shots, and running when the opportunity presented itself. And the Knicks got a big lift from their bench. Johnny Newman, who finished with 21 points, scored 15 in the first half, and Trent Tucker scored all 10 of his points before intermission. But in the third quarter, the Celtics took control of the tempo and shut down the Knicks' fastbreak. Few teams are better at playing halfcourt than the Celtics, and Boston methodically took control. All of Boston's starters are over 30 years old except Lewis, but it is unlikely the Celtics will wilt in the three-of-five-game series. All Rodgers wants from his bench is what he got tonight. Joe Kleine, John Bagley, and Jim Paxson all played well enough to buy time when one of Boston's starters needed a rest. And with an off day on Friday, the Celtics should be fresh for Game 2 Saturday afternoon. More Experienced ''The Celtics have been around a lot longer than we have,'' Mark Jackson said. ''They know how to keep the pace going their way. The tempo in the first half was definitely to our advantage. They were very effective in slowing the ball down in the second half.'' How will the Knicks combat Boston's execution and experience? ''If we're going to have any chance at all, we've got to play the way we did in the first half,'' Vandeweghe said. ''We've got to push the ball upcourt and speed up the tempo. That was the game plan. But it's easier said than done. That front line ranks right up there with the best. They want you to play halfcourt because it's their game. They're smart, all of them can pass, and all of them can score. If we keep letting them play their game, it'll be really tough.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 27, 1990, on Page A00030 of the National edition with the headline: For Starters, Knicks No Match for Celtics.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »