Advertisement By GERALD ESKENAZI Even as the United States bobsled team assembles tomorrow in Albertville, France, for the 1992 Winter Games, the group will still be feeling the effects of a controversy that has engulfed it since last summer. Ray Pratt, the team's executive director, disclosed recently that the team would pay "out-of-pocket" expenses to Todd Snavely. Snavely is the sledder who made the team last July but then was displaced last month when new trials were held. His expenses are believed to be considerable, more than $10,000. Snavely's family booked French hotel rooms with nonrefundable deposits and also bought airline tickets. But the sledder might never recoup the money he lost in his two years of training for a team that he made, then didn't make. Advertisement Another unhappy person around the bobsled team is Jerry Malinowsky, an independent sled designer who says he created a four-man sled with the 180-pound Snavely in mind. Advertisement Taking Snavely's place will be either Greg Harrell, a former pro football player who weighs 245 pounds, or Robert Weissenfels, who weighs 205 pounds. Either one would put the Malinowsky sled over the maximum limit of 1,389 pounds and thus could not be used. But Jim Hickey, the United States bobsled coach, said Malinowsky's sled would not have been the team's first choice for the four-man event. "Even with its original weight, it never would have been used," Hickey said. "We bought a sled in Italy that was better." Malinowsky estimates his cost of developing the unused sled was "in the hundreds of thousands of dollars." The new sled cost $21,000. Some Like It Cold While Americans are storming Puerto Rico these days to put a little sun in their lives, that island's bobsledders will be convening in New York on Wednesday for their trip to the Albertville Games, which start Saturday. The Winter Olympics aren't just for Nordics and cold-weather nuts anymore. Indeed, a listing of the countries competing in the Winter Games includes many we think of as warm-weather destinations: Bermuda, Fiji, Jamaica, Lebanon, Mexico, Morocco, the Netherlands Antilles, the Philippines, Puerto Rico, Senegal and the United States Virgin Islands. Puerto Rico had been enjoying Olympic winters even before the Jamaican bobsled team -- three words that still look funny on paper -- made such a splash, so to speak, in the 1988 Games at Calgary, Alberta.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "George Tucker of Puerto Rico was in the luge in 1984 at Sarajevo," recalled Rich Kolko, who coaches Puerto Rico's bobsledders. "He was the one who set the standard for Caribbean nations competing." Like many of the winter athletes who represent warm-weather countries, though, Tucker actually learned his craft someplace else: Lake Placid, N.Y. But because he was born in Puerto Rico, he was eligible to compete for the island. Advertisement National Olympic committees set their own standards on who is eligible to compete. In Puerto Rico, for example, those who are born there, or who currently reside there, may represent the commonwealth. But the athlete may not have competed for another country, even the United States. Kolko is a former United States luge champion. But he thinks that outstanding athletes can quickly learn to master the luge and the bobsled, unlike, say, figure skating or ski jumping. Just look at the football player Herschel Walker. In large part, sled sports require strength (to get off to a fast start pushing the vehicle) and speed. All the practice in the world won't make an experienced "pusher" better at it than Walker, a pusher as well as brakeman on both the United States' top two-man and four-man sleds. "When I was in Calgary, coaching Puerto Rico in luge, I saw Liston Bochette; he had been a decathlete for Puerto Rico," Kolko said. "I said, 'You're the kind of guy we want to get into bobsledding.' " Four years later, Bochette, who has a doctorate in English, is the driver of Puerto Rico's top two-man sled and its only four-man sled. Strikers and Protesters Less than a week before the Winter Olympics open, strikes and protests by dancers and taxi drivers blotted the pristine Alpine landscape in and around Albertville, France, over the weekend. About 150 dancers scheduled to perform at the opening and closing ceremonies held a 24-hour strike in their rehearsals Saturday to demand better housing and pay. Taxi drivers, meanwhile, blocked roads linking Albertville, headquarters of the Games, to Moutiers, the telecommunication center, with about 30 taxis. The drivers were angry because of regulations established by regional authorities prohibiting them from taking clients freely throughout the region during the two-week Games. Under current rules, aimed at reducing traffic, taxis registered in one zone cannot enter another, and must turn over their clients at the imaginary frontier to different drivers. (AP) Alpine Team Is Picked The United States Olympic Alpine ski team will have 11 men and 11 women, including 7 former Olympians. The United States Skiing Alpine director, Dennis Agee, announced the team yesterday. Coach Ueli Luthi chose the men's team and Coach Paul Major selected the women's team, following the final pre-Olympic World Cup races. A. J. Kitt of Rochester, N.Y., heads the men's team. In December, he won a downhill at Val d'Isere, France, becoming the first American man in seven years to win a World Cup ski race. Julie Parisian of Auburn, Me., who won a World Cup event last year, topped the women's team. (AP) We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 3, 1992, on Page C00009 of the National edition with the headline: OLYMPICS: Five days to Albertville; Sledding Controversy Leads to Compensation.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »