Advertisement By JACK BELLMAY 17, 2014
 The 2014 World Cup begins on June 12, when Brazil plays Croatia in the opening match. Reporters and editors for The Times will count down to the start of the tournament each day with a short capsule of news and interesting tidbits. The shirt. It is always about the shirt. Fans love to wear their team’s colors, and players, in a long-standing soccer tradition, like to exchange shirts with opposing players after a match. The Big Three — Adidas, Nike and Puma — provide uniforms and gear to the vast majority of the 32 teams going to the World Cup. There are some outliers, such as Joma, Marathon, Warrior and Uhlsport, smaller companies that are simply happy to have a team, any team, wear its products. But what happens when the customers are not happy with the latest fashion? Last week, the coach of Iran’s national team, the Portuguese Carlos Queiroz, took time out from his team’s preparations for its trip to Brazil to take a shot at its uniform supplier — the German company Uhlsport. He asserted that the team’s jerseys, shorts and socks, supplied by Uhlsport for Iran’s qualifying matches at Qatar and South Korea, were “not proper” for humid conditions. Advertisement “This could have put Iran out of the World Cup,” he told the news agency Agence France-Presse, while also criticizing Iran’s federation for failing to provide proper team gear. “If you have one tracksuit per player, morning and afternoon, it cannot be good.” Advertisement Queiroz has been an adviser to the United States Soccer Federation, the coach of Real Madrid and the Portuguese and South African national teams, and an assistant coach at Manchester United.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. A few of Queiroz’s players backed their coach, saying their socks and jerseys shrank after washing. (Do they do their own laundry?) In response, Uhlsport, which has a contract with Iran’s federation, said in a statement: “The claim that players have not received sufficient soccer jerseys for the tournament is wrong and absurd. We have used the same standards for Iran as we use for every other association or club that we work with.” Iran’s team left on Monday for training camp in Austria amid assertions from Uhlsport’s regional supplier in the Middle East that the equipment met all quality control benchmarks and that Queiroz was attempting to exact an unspecified financial gain. The dispute spilled over into the political arena when a government representative pleaded for calm ahead of the World Cup. “Everyone should support the national team and we should try to solve its problems as soon as possible,” Mohammad Nahavandian, President Hassan Rouhani’s chief of staff, told an Iranian news agency, ISNA, on Wednesday. “Until the time that the team travels to Brazil, the officials at Youth and Sports Ministry and the football federation will brief the government in this regard on a weekly basis.” In Brazil, Iran is in Group F with Argentina, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Nigeria. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »