Advertisement By MURRAY CHASS When the Yankees arrived at Milwaukee County Stadium yesterday, they saw more rain and more puddles on the field. The forecast, someone mentioned to Wade Boggs, was lousy. "Perfect," the third baseman said. "We're used to it." He was not altogether serious. "It's a distraction," Boggs said of the miserable weather. "Rain pouring down. It's dripping off the bill of your cap. They're throwing diamond dust all over the place and it's not working. It's a definite distraction." The Yankees would prefer conditions to be perfect as they play the final 16 games of their race for the division championship, but they can't control the weather any more than they can determine what the Toronto Blue Jays do. If conditions were ideal from the Yankees' standpoint, the sun would shine 24 hours a day (they have a 32-14 record in day games, 49-51 at night) and they would lead the Blue Jays by six games. But the Blue Jays are in first place, and it rains during some games. But even without ideal conditions, the Yankees have fared well. Their 12-5 victory over the Brewers last night was the latest example. Rain fell up until game time and sprinkled the players periodically through the early innings. The rain, though, worked on the Yankees like it does on lawns, growing run after run. Advertisement As the fourth batter in the game, Danny Tartabull lofted a ball high enough to produce rain if there hadn't been any. It landed in the left-field bleachers for a three-run home run. Tartabull singled across another run in the third before Mike Gallego stroked a two-run single. By the time the rain stopped, the Yankees had an insurmountable lead. Advertisement The Yankees obviously have this rain business down pat. At least it's working for them, which is more than they can say about some elements of their pennant-hopeful aggregation. They don't know, of course, if the routine would work for them in snow. In the middle of September, snow forced postponement of a baseball game -- not in the Antarctic but in Denver, which may be the same place. The Houston Astros, who play their home games indoors in a city where it never snows, were snowed out with the Rockies Monday night. The game had no bearing on any division race, unless it's the one where the Rockies are trying to finish ahead of the San Diego Padres in the National League West. The Rockies already have a comfortable lead over the Mets in the race to avoid finishing with the worst record in the major leagues. But the Yankees are trying to finish with the best record in the American League East, and there they were playing the Brewers Monday night not in snow but in hard, steady rain. Precisely three weeks earlier, in a Midwest town a little to the south, the Yankees played the White Sox in rain. Jimmy Key pitched that game, which took 6 hours 22 minutes to complete 3 hours 32 minutes of actual play, and the Yankees won, 6-5. Key pitched this latest one, too, and after needing 5:29 to play 2:59, the Yankees won, 3-1. "The last two innings were the worst I've ever pitched in," said Key, whose six-inning effort led to his 17th victory. "That includes A-ball, high school, anything. It was muddy on the mound. I was just trying to throw the ball over the plate. I stopped trying to make pitches. I was just throwing."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Boggs, who drove in two of the Yankees' three runs, said the players knew the rain could be a factor in the game. "It started out as 'let's get five innings in and be ahead after five,' " he related. "Then, as we kept playing, we knew it was going to be a nine-inning game and it was 'let's hold them.' " When the game began, nearly an hour and a half late, George Steinbrenner was sitting on the mezzanine level in Bud Selig's box. Steinbrenner always used to sit in Selig's box when the Yankees played here, back when the two owners were much closer friends than they are now. Advertisement The latest wedge in their relationship is revenue sharing. Selig, in effect, wants more of Steinbrenner's local revenue, but Steinbrenner adamantly wants to hold on to his money. The issue makes for a far more serious time in baseball than the instance in the 70's when Steinbrenner was sitting in Selig's glass-enclosed box in full view of everyone, including reporters in the adjacent press box, but told his public relations man not to tell the writers covering the Yankees he was there. It was in the 70's, too, Selig recalled, that he had to throw Steinbrenner, Billy Martin and Al Rosen, the club president, out of his office because they were screaming at each other in a dispute over Graig Nettles and he couldn't get any work done. When Monday night's game resumed after the second delay, Steinbrenner was sitting next to the Yankees' dugout. It was from that vantage point that he watched Lee Smith make his first appearance for the Yankees in a save situation. Smith enabled the owner to relax by getting the third out with two runners on base in the eighth, but he gave him some fitful moments in the ninth by giving up a pair of singles. Steinbrenner seemed to creep closer to the edge of his seat with each hit. But at 12:34 A.M., Milwaukee time, Smith struck out Juan Bell before the Brewers could score another run or rain could delay the game again. "It didn't matter what time it was or what the rain was like," Smith said. "We won and that's what we came to Milwaukee for: to win some games and get something accomplished." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 15, 1993, on Page B00019 of the National edition with the headline: ON BASEBALL; Stormy Times Bringing Bright Spots for Yanks.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »