Advertisement By GEORGE VECSEY Whenever people say, "Isn't it awful how much money the athletes make?" my standard answer is, "I'd rather see Don Mattingly have the money than George Steinbrenner." The ball players, after all, can throw and run and hit a curveball, and do many other socially redeeming acts. The owners, on the other hand, merely own. Pardon my class identification -- my parents were union members when it was dangerous -- but I've always believed in sharing the wealth. Whenever I see an athlete signing for $3 million a year, I figure some of the owner's money is going to trickle down to the player's relatives and friends, balancing things out a little. At this point during the recession, baseball teams are making $14 million per team per year on a contract with CBS and ESPN. I have been operating under the assumption that the owners were keeping some of that money for themselves. In fact, I have never seen a poor owner. So I am not totally astounded to hear that our old friend, the Man from Tampa, has finagled the Yankees' $486 million cable-television contract in order to make some money for himself and his partners. Why else is he in the baseball business? Advertisement The way I understand it, George Steinbrenner borrowed $100 million against his cable contract, and distributed the money among the 17 partners. Since Steinbrenner owns 55 percent of the Yankees, he got to keep 55 percent of the payout. It may be shortsighted and it may be selfish, but it sounds legal to me, as long as the partners pay back the loan. Advertisement There are, of course, just a few teeny-weeny ethical questions about what Steinbrenner does with his money. Like most sports franchises, the Yankees have been known to mooch for tax breaks, because of this wonderful thing they are doing for the city, providing hope and joy and identification for the masses, and a few jobs for vendors and ushers and athletes. Presumably, the next time the Man from Tampa puts the arm on New York for increased police surveillance or glitzy new arc lights on public streets, somebody from the city will bring up the $100 million payout. Nevertheless, I am not being facetious when I maintain that the owners had the right to make some dividends, or profits, or booty or swag, or whatever they want to call it.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The problem with the Yankees is not that Steinbrenner is a capitalist. The problem is that he is a bad capitalist. He had a good idea nearly 20 years ago, which was spending money on free agents, but then the rest of baseball caught up with him. While other organizations were building modern computerized chains of command, Steinbrenner was presiding over the downfall of his family business, American Ship Building, and shouting "Off with his head" into a long-distance phone. Even with the $100 million going to the ownership, there should have been money available for stable management of the Yankees. But this unctuous scamp was paying more attention to buying dirt on Dave Winfield from a gambler named Howie Spira than he was to running his ball club. Basically, the man earned himself a lifetime absence from baseball for having a bad scale of values. But Steinbrenner is not that much more of a wrongo than a lot of other allegedly smart owners. No sooner had Crazy Neal (His Prices Are In-Sane) Pilson produced that $1.46 billion television contract through 1993 than the owners began tossing huge new salaries to ballplayers both skilled and inept. This revelation of the $100 million payout should only pacify people in smaller baseball cities who get nervous about the extra cable money available to owners like Steinbrenner. Who says money wins pennants? Maybe the Mets bought a pennant with their cable money, or maybe Eddie Murray and Bret Saberhagen will be old and injured, respectively. Steinbrenner is now blaming the Mets for his recent flurry of spending. The devil made him do it, he says. This is why Fay Vincent should reinstate Steinbrenner as managing general partner. Pronto. A lifetime ban is too good for the guy. Steinbrenner should be forced to take responsibility for the spending, the personnel decisions, the drift. It's his team. He's making big bucks from it. Of course, if the network money dries up after 1993, my theory is that some teams are going down in 1994. We've seen airlines and newspapers and banks and department stores disappear. You think the sports teams are immune? If the partners cannot meet the loan, Uriah Micawber Steinbrenner could operate the Yankees from yet another distant site: debtor's prison. The history of the Yankees may yet be written by a modern-day Dickens. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 17, 1992, on Page B00007 of the National edition with the headline: Sports of The Times; What About the Other $386 Million?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »