Advertisement By FILIP BONDY and  Within 20 minutes after the United States Olympic hockey team earned first place in its round-robin group by tying the defending world champions tonight, Dave Peterson managed to insult Sweden's coaching staff, scream an obscenity at the referee and charge a former Lady Byng Trophy winner with purposely incapacitating one of the American players. It was all in a very long night's work for the American head coach, who clearly was no longer going to be anybody's Mr. Nice Guy. A dramatic 3-3 tie assured the United States of a soft quarterfinal match Tuesday night against France as the single-elimination medal round begins, but turned back the clock four years to Calgary on the Olympic diplomacy front. After the game, Peterson would not shake the hand of Sweden's coach, Conny Evensson. In the interview room, he would not shake the hand of the Swedish assistant coach Curt Lundmark. 'Very Big Shame' "Why? Why? Why?" said Lundmark, who refused to take a seat at the news conference until the United States coach left. "After the 60 minutes are played, you forget everything and look ahead. This is not a war. Leaders should be able to shake hands. It is a very big shame." Advertisement The trouble had begun just two minutes into the game, when the former Montreal Canadien star Mats Naslund charged into defenseman Greg Brown behind the United States net with the Americans holding a 1-0 lead. Naslund appeared to leap off the ice just before banging his shoulder to Brown's head. Advertisement Brown's face was smashed into the unforgiving Plexiglas, and after falling, he lay motionless, with blood pouring from his face onto the ice and boards, for what seemed like minutes. When he finally skated off the ice with the help of teammates, Brown was still dazed and bleeding. He was hospitalized in Moutiers overnight for observation with a broken nose, a 1 1/2-inch gash on his forehead and a concussion. Afterward, a United States Olympic official said Brown would miss the game against France. The player's status will be day to day thereafter. "I thought it was a cheap shot and they were intentionally trying to take Greg Brown out of the game," Peterson said. Game Misconduct Naslund, who won the Lady Byng trophy in the National Hockey League for gentlemanly conduct in 1988, was given a five-minute penalty for charging and a game misconduct that will require him to miss one more game -- unless an appeal by Swedish officials is successful. "There are 100 hits like that every hockey game," Naslund said. "I saw it later on TV, and I kept my elbows in. Anytime there is blood, it looks dirty. I'm not beating my chest and thinking I'm Tarzan." Although Brown paid a painful price on the brutal check, the Swedes suffered more on a tactical level. Naslund, one of the team's offensive stars, was ejected. The United States gained motivation and a five-minute power play to further soften the Swedes.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "Mats Naslund hasn't hit anybody in the N.H.L. all these years," United States captain Clark Donatelli said. "He got us fired up. Who the hell is he?" Brown's blood was swabbed off the boards between the first and second periods, but the Americans remembered the spot. They scored twice more with countering breaks, on goals by Ted Donato and Marty McInnis, and held a 3-0 lead with just 14 minutes left in the game. Advertisement The Swedes stormed back, pouring 24 of their 48 shots in the third period on Ray LeBlanc, who again carried the United States team as far as it could go. Donatelli and Sean McEachern took what Peterson labeled "stupid penalties," and the Swedes scored on both power plays with slap shots from the slot. The first Swedish goal snapped a shutout streak of 136 minutes 39 seconds. Deflection to Tie Finally, with time running out, the Swedes pulled their goaltender for the man advantage. Left wing Mikael Johansson's wraparound shot deflected off the boot of United States defenseman Dave Tretowicz past LaBlanc with just 21 seconds left for the tie. The result left the Americans with a 4-0-1 record at the end of round-robin play, the best mark in the tournament. The tie left the Swedes second, and matched them with Czechoslovakia in the quarterfinals. Afterward, Peterson was clearly livid. Walking in the corridor past reporters, he shouted at Referee Seppo Makela, cursing and questioning his ability to "still work." He refused to make a statement about the game to reporters, but answered questions bluntly with Lundmark standing behind him, to the side, taken aback by developments. Earlier today, Germany became the final team to qualify for the quarterfinals, with a 4-0 victory over Poland. The Germans will face Canada on Tuesday night. On paper, at least, Germany stands about as much chance as France of ever seeing the semifinals. The last time the United States played France was in an exhibition in nearby Megeve, 13 days and many surprises ago. In that game, the Americans won, 6-3, and brawled with the French on the handshake reception line after the game. Meanwhile, the French players partied until 4 o'clock this morning at the fancy disco in Courchevel, Aux Caves, celebrating their qualification for the quarterfinals. They called off practice today, their expectations for this tournament already surpassed. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 18, 1992, on Page B00009 of the National edition with the headline: ALBERTVILLE; Sweden and U.S. End in a Tie and Fit to Be Tied.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »