Advertisement By JACK CURRY and  They looked spiffy after the first inning, sorry after the fourth and sad after the ninth. The Yankees rolled into the new Comiskey Park like a new team tonight and then they rolled over and died a scant few innings later. New York's 5-0 lead after one inning vanished faster than free hot dogs as the White Sox rebounded to grab a 14-5 victory. What appeared to be a certain triumph for the Yankees and a smart way to open a series became another depressing loss that included shortstop Alvaro Espinoza taking the mound in the eighth. Greg Cadaret failed to stifle Chicago after being given a five-run cushion, the bullpen was buried by the White Sox and the Yankees were muzzled on three measly singles over the final eight innings. The situation became so desperate that Espinoza was summoned to pitch the final two outs in the eighth after the White Sox had already scored six runs in the inning and the Yankees had exhausted four pitchers. "It was a lot of fun for me," said Espinoza. "I got out there and said, 'Oh, God, here we go.' I was laughing." 'Painting the Corners' Advertisement By that time, so were the White Sox. On this messy evening, a shortstop who had never pitched at any level in his life was the best pitcher for the Yankees. Espinoza threw 11 pitches in retiring Tim Raines on a fly to center field and getting Robin Ventura on a grounder to second. Those two batters are not exactly Mutt and Jeff. Raines won a National League batting title in 1986 and Ventura, who once hit in 58 straight games in college, could win the American League crown some day. Advertisement Espinoza's fastball was clocked at 88 miles an hour and he also threw a couple of sliders and change-ups. He even shook off signs of catcher Matt Nokes when he wanted to throw a different pitch. "I was painting the corners," said Espinoza. Not many other Yankee pitchers were willing to discuss their exploits with such glee. Cadaret, who was belted for five runs in three and two-thirds innings, said, "We had to win this ball game and I screwed up." Tim Leary replaced Cadaret and wound up getting the loss because Joey Cora put Chicago ahead, 6-5, by driving in Dan Pasqua with a neat suicide squeeze bunt in the fifth. The White Sox saved the heavy lumber for later. Wade Taylor made his first career relief appearance to start the eighth and will not soon forget it. The White Sox rocked the rookie for six runs in one-third of an inning, leaving him speechless after the game. John Habyan was touched for a single and a walk before Espinoza came to the rescue for the Yankees. Losing 8 of 10  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. New York lost for the eighth time in its last 10 games while Chicago cruised to its 12th victory in the last 15. The Yankees' starters have given them only two decent outings during the 10-game stretch, leaving the bullpen to clean up the mess. The Yankees left the cramped confines of rickety old Tiger Stadium Monday and marveled at the freshness of new Comiskey Park today, even though it is hard not to notice old Comiskey half torn down across the street. Maybe the new surroundings and sneaking out of Detroit with the final game of an arduous four-game series revived the Yankees for a spell. They blasted Ramon Garcia for five runs and five hits in the first inning. Little did they know, the display of offense would not come close to being enough for them to waltz home with the victory. The five runs looked mighty nice to Cadaret. All Cadaret had to do was limit the White Sox and he would saunter to his third straight triumph. It did not happen. In the fourth, the White Sox parlayed three hits, three walks and a hit batter to negate New York's big inning and tie the score, 5-5. That was just the beginning as they added one in the fifth, two in the seventh and six in the eighth. "We got to find a way to fight through it," said Manager Stump Merrill. "It's as simple as that." INSIDE PITCH DAVE EILAND, who was recalled from Class AAA Columbus Monday, will start Wednesday against the White Sox. He was 1-3 with a 4.75 e.r.a. before bruising his right heel in late May and being sent to the minors. TIM LEARY may receive a start Friday because New York plays host to Detroit in a doubleheader and is desperate for pitchers. He has not started since July 5. ROBERTO KELLY will take batting practice Wednesday for the first time in three days and hopes he can play Friday. CARLTON FISK hit his 362d major league homer to pass JOE DiMAGGIO for 39th place on the all-time list. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 7, 1991, on Page B00005 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Yankees Get 5 Runs in First but Prove No Lead Is Safe.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »