Advertisement By JOSEPH DURSO and  The mystery of Strike the Gold deepened along with his losing streak today when the 4-year-old son of Alydar ran third in the Broward Handicap and lost for the 10th straight time since he won the Kentucky Derby last May. He finished in full stride only a length behind Honest Ensign, who never trailed, and Peanut Butter Onit, who missed catching Honest Ensign by a nose. But if ever a race was tailored for a horse with a history, this was it: The track was dry, the opposition was undistinguished, the pace was moderate, he was the people's choice at 4 to 5, and Julie Krone was in the saddle with the hottest riding record of the winter at Gulfstream Park. Yet, with all that going for him, Strike the Gold fell short once again. In his 10 races in nine months since striking gold in the Derby, he has been the favorite seven times and he has been steered by four accomplished jockeys. But the colt who became a popular hero only last spring became more of a racing enigma today, hounded by six horses of far less magnitude, outrun by an 11-to-1 shot who had won only two other races. Trainer Says Surface Hurt Nick Zito, who trains and defends Strike the Gold with passion, defended his colt one more time. The main hitch, he said, was the surface of the track: It favored frontrunners, not horses like Strike the Gold who like to race deep in the pack before making one explosive charge. Advertisement "Man o'War couldn't have won here," Zito said later, walking his fallen star back to the barn. "This is a speed track. It has unbelievable bias. It favors speed all the way, and the speed's holding up. We've got to get out of here." Advertisement Krone, who succeeded Chris Antley, Pat Valenzuela and Angel Cordero as the jockey on Strike the Gold, gave this report on the mystery horse: "My impression is that he is a very talented athlete, and I couldn't give any reason that prevented him from winning today other than the track bias. It seemed to favor speed horses. The horses that were up early kind of stayed. I think he put in a very big run. Sometimes you just get beat. "Does he want to win? Absolutely. Even on the back side, I thought he was going to win it. He was running real good. He pulled up perfect, and he will be there again."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Some racing people suggested that Strike the Gold might simply be living proof that winning the Kentucky Derby can take so much out of a horse at the tender age of 3 that it often turns into a Pyrrhic victory. In 1982, Gato del Sol won the Derby but then won only 3 of his next 21 races. In 1974, Cannonade went 0 for 6 after winning the Derby. In 1970, Dust Commander won the big race but then spiralled into a 1-for-19 slump. In 1933, Brokers Tip won the Derby, but it was the only race he won in his entire career of 14 starts. What's next for Strike the Gold? Probably the $300,000 Gulfstream Park Handicap on March 7, despite the "speed bias" of the track. "It's on the agenda," Zito said. But the horse's future remained complicated by the continuing feud that has embroiled his three owners since last spring: Giles Brophy, who served as managing partner during the Derby days, and Bill Condren and Joe Cornacchia, who displaced him last August and installed Condren as the day-to-day quarterback. Their horse was beaten today by Honest Ensign, a 4-year-old colt owned by Clarence Hill Jr., a retired admiral and master of the Navair Stable, and trained by Guillame Soyer. The veteran jockey Jean Cruguet nudged the horse into the lead soon after the start and kept him there. Strike the Gold loped in sixth place before charging on the outside as they neared the turn for home. At the finish, Honest Ensign staved off Peanut Butter Onit, with Strike the Gold flying after both. The winner covered the mile and an eighth in 1:492/5 and returned a neat $24.80 for every $2 bet on him to outrun the mystery horse, Strike the Gold. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 18, 1992, on Page B00017 of the National edition with the headline: HORSE RACING; Mystery of Strike the Gold Continues.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »