Advertisement  TRACK AND FIELD Nehemiah Earns Revenge in Hurdles The former world record-holder, Renaldo Nehemiah, beat the current record-holder, Roger Kingdom, today in the 110-meter high hurdles at an international meet at Linz, Austria. Meanwhile, Carl Lewis and his Santa Monica Track Club teammates failed again in a bid for a world record in the 400-meter relay. Nehemiah got off to a good start and held on to win in 13.22 seconds, matching his best time of the season. Kingdom was timed in 13.27. The cool weather hampered the Santa Monica quartet of Mark Witherspoon, Leroy Burrell, Floyd Heard and Lewis, which was timed in 38.23, well off the mark of 37.83 set by the United States team at the 1984 Olympics. That team was also anchored by Lewis. Jaime Jefferson of Cuba upset Mike Powell of the United States in the long jump, leaping 26 feet 11 1/4 inches. Powell managed 26-7. Andre Cason of the United States won the men's 100 in 10.18.(AP) Bubka Wins Sergei Bubka, the world record-holder from the Soviet Union, set a stadium record, clearing 18 feet, 8 3/4 inches, in the pole-vault in an international meet last night in Boras, Sweden. Advertisement Bubka, who has competed infrequently this season because of injuries, stopped jumping after reaching the winning height because of the cold weather. He set the world mark of 19-10 1/2 in 1988. Advertisement Shelly Steely was the only American winner, clocking 9:09.15 in the women's 3,000 meters.(AP) CYCLING Hubner Wins Sprint  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Michael Hubner of East Germany won the men's professional sprint finals at the world championships in Maebashi, Japan, yesterday and Evgenii Berzin captured the second gold medal for the Soviet Union. Berzin won the men's amateur individual pursuit. Mike McCarthy of New York took the bronze, the United States' first medal in the championship that began Monday. Two Americans, Connie Young and Renee Duprel, along with Felicia Ballanger of France and Rita Razmaite of the Soviet Union, advanced into the semifinals of the women's sprint after winning their quarterfinals. (AP) HORSE RACING Fourstardave Upset Fast 'N' Gold sliced to the inside in the final furlong and pulled clear to a 1 3/4-length upset victory over Fourstardave in the $91,950 West Point Handicap for New York-breds yesterday at Saratoga. Fourstrdave, the 2-to-1 favorite and topweight under 121 pounds, four more than the winner, held second by a nose over Wanderkin, with Kate's Valentine a length back in fourth. Fast 'N' Gold paid $14.80 for $2 to win as the fourth betting choice. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 23, 1990, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: RESULTS PLUS.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »