Advertisement By FILIP BONDY and  Canada held on to a one-goal loss tonight against the Unified Team, a result that was good enough for first place in the permutation-polluted world of Olympic ice hockey. "Hey, we're hockey players," Canadian right wing Kent Manderville said after his team lost, 5-4. "But we can figure some things out." The match, hard fought until the final, cozy minutes, produced a convenient score for both sides. It allowed Canada to win Group B despite losing, and let the Unified Team move ahead of Czechoslovakia into second place in the same group. All three teams finished the round-robin portion of the tournament with 4-1 records, but goal differential in head-to-head games gave Canada the edge, followed by the Unified Team. "For us, the coaches did not assign the task of winning by more than three goals," said Igor Dmitriyev, an assistant coach of the Unified Team, which would have finished first in Group B had it done so. Advertisement Nonetheless, because of Igor Kravtchouk's goal 12 minutes 44 seconds into the third period, the Unified Team no longer has to worry about possibly facing Sweden in its quarterfinal match. Instead, it plays weaker Finland, which finished third in Group A. And Canada is assured of playing the fourth-place finisher from Group A, probably Germany. Advertisement The results today also made things clearer for the United States. If the Americans tie or beat Sweden on Monday, they finish first in Group A and face France in the quarterfinals. If they lose to Sweden, they finish second in Group A and play Czechoslovakia.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. For the first period of tonight's match, and again for parts of the third, the Unified Team played breathtaking control hockey. During one power play that resulted in the first goal, by Dmitri Mironov, the Unified Team kept the puck in Canada's zone for more than a minute of pinpoint passing. Near the end of the game, Eric Lindros squabbled briefly with the Unified Team's head coach, Viktor Tikhonov, over rough checking. Soon after, Canada was icing the puck and putting its penalty-killers on the ice to protect its first-place standing. Earlier in the day, France clinched fourth place in Group B with a 4-2 victory over Norway, and Czechoslovakia defeated Switzerland, 4-2. Coaches for both winning teams immediately expressed the wish to meet the United States, not Sweden, in the quarterfinals. France's coach, Kjell Larson, said he wanted to play the Americans "because they use similar tactics to Canada and we almost beat Canada." Czechoslovakia's coach, Ivan Hlinka, was more blunt. "My wish is to play the American team," he said, offering some fodder for the United States bulletin board. "I believe we can beat that team." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 17, 1992, on Page C00004 of the National edition with the headline: ALBERTVILLE; Round-Robin Logic: Canada Wins, 4-5.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »