Advertisement By JACK CURRY The agonizing wait about his future is over. Even if he does not know the details yet, Gene Michael's contract as general manager of the Yankees will soon be renewed for two years and he will even receive a raise. George Steinbrenner revealed the decision yesterday. "As far as I'm concerned, he's my g.m.," the Yankee owner said in a telephone interview. "It's fine. We just haven't had a chance to sit down for the final session." Michael said on Thursday that his situation had not changed, that he had not discussed his status with Steinbrenner for three weeks and that he would be a free agent once his three-year deal ended on Monday. With the general managers' meetings beginning tomorrow in Naples, Fla., and with the Yankees expected to be active in their pursuit of pitching, Michael seemed to be on the verge of venturing to the trading tables in doubt about his position. And He'll Put It in Writing But Steinbrenner eliminated the doubt verbally yesterday and planned to eliminate it in written form "as quickly as I have a chance." Advertisement The owner said he wanted to complete Michael's contract renewal this month while both were in Tampa, Fla., for organizational meetings, but they had failed to connect on the day Steinbrenner wanted them to have dinner. Advertisement "I see no problems," said Steinbrenner, who said he last discussed the topic with Michael one week ago. "I like Stick. I think he's done a very, very good job." Reached in Tampa, Michael was subdued in discussing the impending contract renewal. "We just haven't had the chance to finish talking about the contract yet," said the man who has been in the Yankee organization as a player, coach, manager, general manager and scout the last 23 years.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. After first saying that he would not discuss the length of Michael's contract, Steinbrenner said: "It will be more than one and less than three. I will not put him on a one-year because I don't think that's fair. But I'm not going to go out too far for anyone. Not just Gene. If you go out too far with these contracts, it causes problems." Asked if Michael, who is believed to have made about $250,000 a year, would get a boost in salary, Steinbrenner said, "I think he's entitled to a raise." In an environment under which Michael has conceded that he is often a liaison because Steinbrenner sometimes acts as his own general manager, Michael has done an admirable job. The Yankees were not expected to compete with the Blue Jays, but they remained in the divisional race until the final two weeks of the season. That Michael -- who welcomed a reporter into his spring training office last February by saying, "So are you here to do a story about me getting fired?" -- has been retained as g.m. would have been considered stunning nine months ago. It had been a foregone conclusion that Steinbrenner would dismiss the 55-year-old Michael after the owner returned to the day-to-day operations of the club on March 1 following a 30-month suspension. But Michael has not only skirted trouble, but also seen many of his strategies work. Not only did Michael sign catcher Mike Stanley before this season and then watch him have a brilliant year, but he also signed Dion James in 1991 and waited for him to rehabilitate his elbow. James hit .332 in 1993. Michael did not trade infielder Mike Gallego and looked shrewd when Gallego replaced the free-agent bust Spike Owen at shortstop and hit .283 with 10 homers and 54 r.b.i. With Steinbrenner in New York and Michael on his way to Naples, the contract is not likely to be signed until after the g.m. meetings, but Steinbrenner said that was not a problem. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 30, 1993, on Page 1001029 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL; Michael Now Knows He's Boss's Favorite.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »