Advertisement By JOE LAPOINTE and  Anyone looking for symbolism at the Nassau Coliseum today didn't need to look further than the Islanders' locker room. From the ceiling, water flowed from a leaky pipe. On the floor, garbage bags and trash cans were strewn about to collect the moisture. "Go in and ask them, they'll tell you how good they are," said Al Arbour, the coach, who spoke with sarcasm and anger in a loud voice. Not too many players were around, at least not right after the game, a 4-1 loss to the Detroit Red Wings before 12,850 fans. Some of the Islanders worked out in the exercise room, showing perhaps more effort on the machines than they had on the ice. Others moved about from the private lounge to the shower with scowls on their faces. "I'm very disappointed; it certainly exposed the character of a lot of our players," Arbour said. "They figured they'd frighten the opposition because they finally had a good game." Advertisement He was referring to the previous day's performance, a 6-4 victory over the Rangers here. Today's letdown was easy to predict, hard to avoid. It was an in-between game against a nonconference opponent. On Tuesday, the Islanders are hosts to the Washington Capitals in what was supposed to be the first meeting with Dale Hunter since he seriously injured Pierre Turgeon in the playoffs last spring. Hunter, however, sprained his left knee tonight against the Rangers and will not suit up.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Today's result ended the Islanders' unbeaten streak at five games and raised Detroit's winning streak to three. The Islanders weren't ready at the start of the game and Scotty Bowman's Wings, a talented team that is finding its stride, eventually took advantage. The winning goal was scored at 8 minutes 49 seconds of the second period by Sergei Fedorov, who has quietly and methodically become one of hockey's top 10 players. Advertisement With the score tied at 1-1 on goals by Detroit's Ray Sheppard and New York's Derek King in the first period, Fedorov weaved a passing play with Vyacheslav Kozlov at the New York blue line, drifted to the right with the puck, fired a wrist shot, darted around Dean Chynoweth, pounced upon his own rebound and whipped the puck past Ron Hextall. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 29, 1993, on Page C00002 of the National edition with the headline: HOCKEY; Islanders Have Holes In Locker, And Effort.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »