Advertisement By AL HARVIN Adlai Stevenson's two-year reign was ended yesterday when Brooklyn Tech, getting a total of 41 points and 10 assists from its senior backcourt duo of Lamont Jones and Tyrone Paige, eliminated the two-time defending Public Schools Athletic League champions from the Bronx, 65-58, in a quarterfinal game at City College's Nat Holman gymnasium. In the first quarterfinal, Manhattan Center for Science and Math, situated in Manhattan, defeated Andrew Jackson, the last team from Queens, 68-52. The Manhattan team got a game-high 25 points from David Sweeting, and 22 from Robert Carter, along with 15 from the 5-foot-10-inch sophomore Sherman Jones. There are still four schools from Brooklyn, one from the Bronx and one from Manhattan left as the P.S.A.L. quarterfinals continue today at Queensborough Community College with a Brooklyn matchup between, Boys & Girls (18-6) and top-seeded Grady (22-1). John F. Kennedy (18-6) of the Bronx goes against Lincoln (19-4), another Brooklyn school, which was the runner-up to Stevenson the last two years. Manhattan Center plays Brooklyn Tech in Sunday's semifinals and the championship is next Wednesday at Madison Square Garden. Advertisement Tech (18-1) struggled in the early rounds of the playoff against New Utrecht of Brooklyn and DeWitt Clinton of the Bronx, but the Engineers had very little trouble with Stevenson, which had been seeded No. 2 after the first round and given a bye into the quarterfinals. Stevenson's season ended at 19-5. No P.S.A.L. team has ever won three straight titles and Taft was the last to win two straight, in the mid-1970's. Advertisement ''I knew they were going to be tough because I saw them against Clinton and saw that they had those two good guards,'' said the Stevenson coach, Steve Post, who declined to find excuses for the defeat because Jermaine Wright, his 6-5 junior starter, missed the game with chicken pox. ''They played extremely well against us and got my big man into foul trouble early.''  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Anthony Pelle, the Ambassadors' 6-11 senior picked up his second infraction with less than 2 minutes gone in the game and had to sit out. When he came back, Tech's first-year coach, Steve Gigliello, had his players deny the ball to Pelle and the 6-0 junior Damon Santiago. Santiago wound up with a team-high 21 points for Stevenson, but he had only 5 at intermission. Pelle wound up with 10 points, but had none at halftime. Stevenson jumped off to a 4-1 lead in the first three and a half minutes, tied the score at 15 on a 3-pointer by Jerry Jones with 10 seconds left in the quarter, but fell behind by 28-23 at the half. Tech built that into their biggest lead, 36-25, with three minutes gone in the third period. Stevenson made a 12-3 spurt, closing to 39-37 with 1:30 left in that period, but could get no closer. Turnovers were the bane of Andrew Jackson in the first game, the Hickories committing 18 in the first half and 25 in the game. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on March 8, 1990, on Page B00012 of the National edition with the headline: Brooklyn Tech Topples Stevenson.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »