Advertisement By ROBERT MCG. THOMAS JR. TO hear Don Johnson tell it, the main reason offshore powerboat racing has not become a major spectator sport is implicit in its name: Spectators tend to be onshore creatures. ''They can see the start,'' he said the other day. ''Then the boats head out to sea and everybody has to wait to find out who won.'' Another problem, he suggested, has been that the sport hasn't had an organization with the muscle to match the power of the 50-foot, four-engine monsters that can cut through the waves at 130 miles an hour. Johnson, an actor who was introduced to the sport through his role in the ''Miami Vice'' television series and who won the 1988 championship in the superboat division, thinks he and some powerboating colleagues may have solved both problems with a single stroke. Advertisement They have formed a new Offshore Professional Tour, which will sponsor races in eight major cities this year leading up to a championship race in Key West, Fla., in November.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. With plans for NBC to provide delayed television coverage of at least four races, and with close-to-the-shore courses lined up in San Francisco, Long Beach, Calif., Miami, Tampa, Fla., New Orleans, Chicago, Detroit and New York, Johnson is convinced that powerboating is finally about to come into its own. Advertisement ''It's fast, dangerous, sexy and exciting,'' he said. Although not every part of every course will be within sight of land, Johnson said the sites were specifically chosen to assure a maximum of spectator exposure without sacrificing the challenge of heavy seas. The course in the San Francisco Bay for example, which will include a stretch off Fisherman's Wharf, will loop from Alcatraz to the Golden Gate Bridge, deliberately taking in a treacherous range of rough water called the potato patch. The New York loop extends from the East River, under the Verrazzano-Narrows Bridge to the Ambrose Channel. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 12, 1990, on Page C00002 of the National edition with the headline: SPORTS WORLD SPECIALS: POWERBOAT RACING;   Onshore Tactics.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »