Advertisement By BEN ROTHENBERGMAY 16, 2014
 ROME —  The first match between Rafael Nadal and Andy Murray in nearly three years proved to be worth the wait. Nadal roared back from a lopsided first set and a 2-4 deficit in the final set Friday night to beat Murray, 1-6, 6-3, 7-5, and reach the semifinals of the Italian Open for the sixth straight year. Despite having combined to win five of the last eight Grand Slam event titles, Murray and Nadal had managed to avoid each other by sheer chance after having played frequently between 2008 and 2011. From Wimbledon in 2009 to the United States Open in 2011, the two were drawn into the same half of the draw in 10 consecutive Grand Slam events. They met in three consecutive Grand Slam semifinals in 2011, with Nadal winning all three. Murray then beat Nadal in the final of Tokyo that fall, which stood as their last meeting until Friday night. (They were set to meet in the 2012 semifinals of the Sony Open, but Nadal withdrew because of an injury.) Murray and Nadal have met fewer times than any other permutation of the so-called Big Four, which also includes Roger Federer and Novak Djokovic. Since he last faced Nadal, Murray has faced Djokovic 10 times and Federer 7 times. Nadal has played Djokovic 11 times and Federer 7 times. Advertisement Murray’s record against Nadal is his worst against anyone on the tour; he now trails by 14-5. “The thing that’s frustrating is that I’ve played against him a lot of times — my record is not particularly good — but I feel like I’ve played good matches, and given him a lot of problems,” Murray said after his loss. “I would have liked to have won tonight’s match because I had the opportunities. I obviously started the match better than him.” Advertisement In cold, damp conditions, Murray started hot, racing out to a 5-0 lead before taking the first set, 6-1, showing his best form since returning in January after back surgery in September. But in the opening game of the second set, Nadal saved a break with an ace that skidded off the sideline, and raced out to a 3-0 lead of his own before winning, 6-3. In a fiercely competitive third set, Murray double faulted on break point in the opening game, then double faulted again on break point at 5-5, giving Nadal the chance to close out the match.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. It was the third straight match in which Nadal played three sets, having previously been forced into a decider by Gilles Simon and Mikhail Youzhny. On the women’s side, 10th-seeded Sara Errani, the lone Italian left, registered a win over a top-three opponent for the first time in her career on her 21st try, beating No. 2 Li Na, 6-3, 4-6, 6-2. Li revealed after her loss that she had been vomiting 15 minutes before the match after eating pasta in the on-site players’ restaurant. Errani will face No. 6 seed Jelena Jankovic in the semifinals, after Jankovic defeated third-seeded Agnieszka Radwanska, 6-4, 6-4. The other women’s semifinal will pit No. 1 Serena Williams against 12th-seeded Ana Ivanovic, who stunned Williams in the fourth round of the Australian Open in January. In the quarterfinals, Williams cruised past Zhang Shuai, 6-1, 6-3, while Ivanovic needed three sets to beat Carla Suarez Navarro, 6-4, 3-6, 6-4. In other men’s matches, Djokovic, ranked No. 2, needed three sets to advance past No. 5 David Ferrer, 7-5, 4-6, 6-3. In the semifinals, Djokovic will face No. 8 Milos Raonic, who won his quarterfinal over Jeremy Chardy, 6-3, 5-7, 6-2. No. 12 Grigor Dimitrov advanced to his first Masters semifinal when Tommy Haas retired with a shoulder injury after losing the first set, 6-2, setting up a semifinal against Nadal. A version of this article appears in print on May 17, 2014, on Page D7 of the New York edition with the headline: Familiar Result as Rivalry Resumes.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »