Advertisement By MURRAY CHASS and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES If revenue sharing eventually comes to baseball, the players will have to have a role in management decisions, the owners' chief labor spokesman said today. The spokesman, Charles O'Connor, didn't say how much of a role the players would or should have, but his comments went beyond anything he had said on the matter when revenue sharing was on the bargaining table as the owners' primary proposal. If the two sides someday adopt revenue sharing, O'Connor said, ''I can't imagine that they would do that without providing an enhanced role for the union in what some might consider has heretofore been exclusively management decisions.'' ''I think that will happen,'' O'Connor added. ''I think it's inevitable. I think to a great degree it's probably going to be very helpful to the stability of the labor-management relationship.'' Advertisement O'Connor spoke by telephone from New York to reporters and editors at a labor seminar sponsored by The Associated Press Sports Editors. He had been scheduled to appear in person but canceled, he said, because he needed to conduct internal meetings over the weekend. Advertisement Talks Resume Today With the owners' lockout on spring training camps moving toward completion of its first week, negotiations will resume Monday after a two-day hiatus. The negotiators have scheduled meetings for at least three or four consecutive days, and the period figures to be critical. The two sides could come closer together in their effort to get a new collective-bargaining agreement or they could remain far apart and the talks could break down. The only optimistic development in negotiations has been the removal of the owners' revenue-sharing proposal from the table and the beginning of serious discussion on the more conventional issues the players have wanted to talk about. Those include salary arbitration, free agency, minimum salary, roster matters and the pension and benefit plan.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. When revenue sharing was on the table, Donald Fehr, the players' union chief, said players would have to have a role in making decisions that would affect baseball's revenue. At the time, O'Connor said that the owners were not prepared to relinquish any of their responsibility. Fehr was present at the seminar today and acknowledged that O'Connor had not previously made comments like those today. But, Fehr quickly added, ''If you have revenue sharing, we think we have to have far more than a greater role.'' ''We feel players have to have an equal say in what you do with revenue,'' he said. Player Voice on Expansion O'Connor, in discussing a decision-making role for the players, was asked if that role would extend to expansion, which is supposed to be coming sometime before the end of the century. ''To the extent where you're talking about how we're both benefiting from the revenues,'' O'Connor said, ''the role of the union in the expansion locales would itself expand. I think that's correct. I think they would have more input. If you're asking does that mean that the union is ultimately going to select the cities, I would guess the answer to that likely is no.'' In the nine-point plan presented by Commissioner Fay Vincent last week, revenue sharing would be given to a study commission, which would file a report by April 1, 1991. The plan also provides for a ''reopener'' under which the clubs could terminate the agreement after two years. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on February 19, 1990, on Page C00002 of the National edition with the headline: Amid the Impasse, A Look to Future.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »