Advertisement  Two members of the Notre Dame women's swimming team that was returning from a meet near Chicago were killed early today after the team bus crashed and overturned four miles from campus. The accident stunned the university, which canceled all weekend athletic events for the first time since the assassination of President Kennedy 28 years ago. "People are shocked," said Dennis Brown, a university spokesman. "Everybody in the Notre Dame family has been affected." Killed were two 19-year-old freshmen, Margaret Murphy Beeler of nearby Granger and Colleen Hipp of St. Louis. "They were both pretty much going to be the stars of the team," said Rose Pietrzak, an assistant sports information director." Advertisement A third freshman swimmer, Haley Scott, 18, of Phoenix, suffered a serious back injury and underwent surgery twice today at Memorial Hospital, said a hospital spokeswoman, Betty Andrzejewski. Advertisement The Rev. Edward A. Malloy, the Roman Catholic university's president, rushed home from a conference in Washington to preside at a memorial Mass on campus this evening. "The Notre Dame community today is shocked and sorrowful," Father Malloy told thousands of students and faculty who filled the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Included among the eight events canceled were a women's swim meet against St. Bonaventure and the Midwestern Collegiate Conference indoor men's and women's track meet.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The team bus crashed during a blinding snowstorm along the Indiana Toll Road, also known as Interstates 80-90. The accident occurred shortly after midnight. Most of the 35 others aboard suffered minor injuries. Coach Tim Welsch escaped injury. The bus carried 32 swimmers, three coaches, a student manager and the driver. Sister Josef Riordan, a resident adviser at Walsh Hall where Beeler lived, said counselors had talked to students at the crash scene and the infirmary. "They're grieving," she said. "They're very close. Many of them are still in shock." The grief extended into South Bend, a city of 105,000. "It's a terrible tragedy," Mayor Joe Kernan said. "The kids were close to home." State police said the bus rolled over in the highway's median after hitting a patch of heavy snow. "It was pretty well crunched," said John Hayden, a Clay Township firefighter. He said the two bodies were pinned in the wreckage toward the rear of the bus. Dan Shoup, vice president of the charter company, United Limo Inc. of Osceola, said it was the first traffic accident that the driver, Howard E. Dixon, 53, of Mishawaka had in nearly seven years with the company. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 25, 1992, on Page 1001035 of the National edition with the headline: COLLEGES; Notre Dame Mourns Two Swimmers Killed in Crash.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »