Advertisement By JOSEPH DURSO George Steinbrenner pledged a kinder, gentler world for the Yankees yesterday, promised to communicate more directly with his players, scolded his fellow owners for overspending on salaries and even guaranteed that Bucky Dent would survive the season as manager. ''Yes, I'll tell you Bucky's going to be my manager all year,'' Steinbrenner said. ''Bucky's one of my guys. He's won everywhere he's been. He's very strong on loyalty. We're going to keep this guy for a while.'' Then, reminded that Dent was his 17th manager in 17 years and that a vote of confidence had often turned into a kiss of death, Steinbrenner put his position even more emphatically: ''Bucky Dent will be here as my manager this year. If they get off to a bad start or a great start, or a great start and can't hold it together, he's still my manager.'' Dent, sitting alongside while the owner was hitting some rhetorical long ones during an upbeat luncheon at the ''21'' Club, was asked why No. 17 would last longer than No. 16, Dallas Green, who lasted from April to August last season. Choosing his words, Dent replied: ''I've been in the organization 12 years and wanted to be the manager. But I'm going to do what I think is best. I don't worry about tomorrow.'' Advertisement Steinbrenner also voiced shock at the explosion in salaries this winter, and denied that he had caused it when he signed Pascual Perez as a free agent for $2 million a year, even though Perez had a losing record and a history of drug abuse.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. He defended the signing on merit, but upbraided Gene Autry of the California Angels for signing Mark Langston at $3 million a year, Ewing Kauffmann of the Kansas City Royals for signing Mark Davis at $3.25 million and Al Rosen of the San Francisco Giants for rehiring Will Clark at $3.75 million. ''Every day,'' he said, ''I wake up and see the salaries and say: ''I don't believe this.' They blame me for Perez, but that's an easy cop-out. My people told me he was the pitcher they'd want if the game was on the line. Advertisement Steinbrenner said that he had taken a new tack with his players late last season when he joined them in Boston and held long talks with Dave Righetti and Jesse Barfield, both of whom responded by going to Florida for special workouts after the season. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on January 26, 1990, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: Steinbrenner Promises A Kinder Season for Yanks.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »