Advertisement By JOSEPH DURSO and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES They staged two three-run innings and an even rarer four-run inning. And they did all the things they hadn't been doing during those five dry days when they managed only 20 hits and three runs in 45 innings and understandably lost all five games. Dwight Gooden doesn't usually need that level of support, but he got it tonight and combined it with another powerful pitching performance. He allowed only 5 hits, struck out 10 batters for the 43d time in his career and won his fifth straight decision and the 13th in his last 14. He has now lost only once since June 2. By breaking out, the Mets may not have saved themselves in the pennant race in the National League's East, because the Pittsburgh Pirates, meanwhile, were beating the Montreal Expos. But at least they didn't lose any ground. They stayed three and a half games behind, with 24 to play, including five against the Pirates. ''It's over,'' Harrelson said of the losing streak. ''It's what we needed. A lot of anxieties ended. The guys are smiling again.'' Advertisement But his joy probably should have been tempered by the fact that the Mets' offensive problems were solved partly by the Phillies' pitching problems. Bruce Ruffin started the game for the Phillies, and he hasn't won a game since July 2. He got a two-run lead in the opening inning, but squandered it by the fourth and was gone. Then the bullpen dispatched six other pitchers of no distinction in a spring-training sequence, and they provided a kind of target practice for the Mets' awakening offense. Advertisement Everybody in the lineup drew at least one walk. Everybody in the lineup except Howard Johnson got at least one hit, and he got two walks and scored two runs. Kevin McReynolds, who had only two hits in his last 14 times at bat, unloaded a two-run home run. Gregg Jefferies unloaded another. Darryl Strawberry, who had one hit in 21 times up, broke out with a double and sacrifice fly. Charlie O'Brien, the new catcher, treated himself to a walk, two singles and a double. And Magadan reached base five times, with three walks, a single and a triple. ''We hadn't seen hitting like that for a while,'' Gooden said. Gooden tried to do too much in the first inning and was quickly two runs behind. With one down, Rod Booker walked and Von Hayes hammered a home run over the fence in right field, just like that. There was more. Dale Murphy singled, Darren Daulton doubled and the Mets seemed to be on the brink of the ultimate indignity: losing with Gooden pitching. ''I was overthrowing,'' Gooden said. ''But I knew two runs was a lot, the way we've been going lately, so I told myself I better slam the door. I didn't know they were going to get 12 runs for me.''  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. He escaped a worse mess by striking out Charlie Hayes and getting Ricky Jordon on a groundout to third base. After that, he slammed the door so forcefully that the Phillies got two singles, no walks and nothing else for the next eight innings. The Mets, though, were feasting. In the fourth, Ruffin walked the first two batters, Murphy lost McReynolds's fly to right field for a gift double and a run, and Tom Herr singled for two more and the lead. Everything else was icing. Backstage, the feathers stayed ruffled: David Cone and Bud Harrelson discussed, but did not necessarily settle, their differences over Friday night's game. The issue arose when the manager removed Cone in the seventh inning and called for the left-handed Jeff Musselman to pitch to Len Dykstra. At the time, the Phillies were leading by 2-1, but Cone had struck out 12 batters and Musselman had only recently returned from the minors. Three Phillies singled in succession, two runs scored and the Mets never got closer. ''He came to me last night after everybody had cleared out of the locker room,'' Cone reported, ''and said he made the move because the three hitters were 0-for-11 against Musselman. I said that was pretty flimsy evidence to go on, and I deserved to be in the game. He should take the intangibles into account, the intangibles being that I've been one of his horses all year and deserved to stay. ''It's obvious we're reaching for answers and trying a lot of combinations to find the answers. I know it's up to the management to assemble the pieces, and it's up to the manager to fit them in. But I can't remember when I was taken out of a game for tactical reasons. The intangibles should count, too. He said that he'd take that into account in the future, and that's where we left it.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 9, 1990, on Page 8008002 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL;   Mets Explode Out of Their Losing Streak.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »