Advertisement By FRANK LITSKY When Mark Bavaro is healthy, he may be the best tight end in professional football. But he has not been healthy since he tore a knee ligament early last season, a situation that creates major problems for the Giants. Do they keep four tight ends on the roster? Do they make Bavaro a cornerstone of their plans? Do they prepare others to do some of his jobs? Do they play it safe and abandon some of their formations involving two or three tight ends? The possibilities are endless. At this stage, the Giants expect Bavaro to be ready for their opening game, Sept. 9 against the Philadelphia Eagles at Giants Stadium. But they have contingencies, too. Last January, Bavaro underwent surgery on his left knee. As part of the operation, a screw was inserted to attach a ligament to bone. Last week, when training camp began here, the screw began to irritate the knee, and four days ago, in minor surgery, the screw was removed. Advertisement Bavaro continued today to ride a stationary bicycle fiercely. He is also jogging. He is scheduled to return to practice Monday. Advertisement Meanwhile, Howard Cross, Bob Mrosko and Thornton Chandler are working at tight end. This morning, the fullbacks started working as a second tight end, as they did last year after Bavaro was hurt. Everyone concerned seems to think Bavaro will be ready. ''Apparently his knee is stable, so that's a good sign,'' said Mike Pope, the Giants' tight-end coach. ''He didn't seem to be favoring it when he was blocking last week.'' ''It's not an exact science,'' Coach Bill Parcells said. ''It's not scary now because we're not making too many decisions on that now. We have time. If this was Aug. 27 and we had the same situation, it would be different.''  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Last year, the Giants' tight ends were Bavaro, Cross and Zeke Mowatt. The New England Patriots signed Mowatt last spring as a Plan B free agent. The Giants then signed Mrosko as a Plan B free agent and Chandler as an unrestricted free agent. Parcells said his tight ends were progressing well. But Bavaro's absence aside, all is not perfect. Cross has been making difficult catches, but just as he did in training camp last year, he has been dropping easy ones. Mrosko and Chandler have had similar spells, although Parcells said he has seen improvement in both of them. A SATURDAY-AFTERNOON SCRIMMAGE On Saturday, the Giants will have the morning off and will take part in a controlled scrimmage about 1:50 P.M. . . . Ed Cunningham, a promising rookie free-agent offensive tackle, sprained his left foot in practice Friday morning's. The Giants who missed practice were Lionel Manuel (ankle), Dwayne Jiles (shoulder), Sheldon White (hamstring) and Greg Boysaw (broken left foot). JETS' HAIGHT INJURES ANKLE HEMPSTEAD, L.I., Aug. 3 (Special to The New York Times) - Mike Haight, a fifth-year guard, injured his right ankle today, and his status was listed as day to day. Also injured and sidelined for the 2 P.M. scrimmage on Saturday are Dave Zawatson (hand), Dennis Byrd (shoulder), Al Toon (groin) and Johnny Hector (knee). Keith Neubert said he felt a slight groin pull after practice today, but he was not expected to miss the scrimmage. . . . Bruce Coslet, the Jets' coach, said he would conduct the scrimmage like a live practice, with about 30 plays. ''I want to see them hit,'' Coslet said. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 4, 1990, on Page 1001045 of the National edition with the headline: FOOTBALL;   Giants Plan for Life With and Without Bavaro.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »