Advertisement By JOSEPH DURSO and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES He is round and chubby, and he wears eyeglasses now, and his left arm has pitched baseballs for 2,300 innings in the last 10 years in a career that seemed finished two summers ago. But Fernando Valenzuela came out of the past tonight, outpitched David Cone into the eighth inning, steered the Los Angeles Dodgers to a 4-2 victory and plunged the Mets four games back in a pennant race that has only 40 games left to play. It is the farthest from the top that the Mets have been in two months. Valenzuela allowed only four hits but walked seven batters and needed help from Jay Howell to finish the job when the Mets put their first two runners on base in the eighth. But the threat died when Hubie Brooks made a diving catch in right field and threw to second base to double off Darryl Strawberry, who was running full tilt without tagging up. This was the final stop for the Mets on a 10-day trip to the West Coast, which in recent years has been an obstacle course for them. And they got two pieces of bad news even before taking the field tonight for the opening game of a four-game series in Dodger Stadium. Advertisement Dodgers on Mission Also They learned that the team they were pursuing, the Pittsburgh Pirates, had already beaten the Cincinnati Reds for the fifth time in a row. So, the Mets knew that they had to beat the Dodgers just to stay three games behind the first-place Pirates in the race in the National League East. But the Dodgers, making a late run at the Reds in the West, knew that they could move to within five and a half games of the top in their race. Advertisement ''Somebody asked me how it felt to be back in the pennant race,'' said Tommy Lasorda, the master of the Dodgers. ''I said: 'We were never out of it.' '' But Lasorda conceded that the race had become wacky. In the last three days, the Dodgers played three games against the Philadelphia Phillies, and all three were decided in the ninth inning. The Dodgers won two, but drove Lasorda up the wall in the other game when the Phillies scored nine runs to win the ninth inning. The Mets also got bad medical news tonight to go with their pennant news. Mark Carreon, who tore a ligament in his right knee in San Diego on Monday night, underwent tests in Tucson, Ariz., where he lives. They confirmed the injury, and the 27-year-old center fielder was scheduled for surgery on Saturday.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Injury Dismays Elster Meanwhile, Kevin Elster was examined in the locker room tonight by the Dodgers' surgeon, Dr. Frank Jobe, who confirmed earlier reports that the shortstop was suffering from muscle weakness in his throwing shoulder. Elster tried throwing before the game, but complained of pain in the shoulder and asked for Dr. Jobe to examine it, as he did last week. ''It's no better,'' the shortstop said. ''Nobody seems to know exactly what's the problem. It's disheartening.'' It was also disheartening to the Mets when they staked Cone to a 2-0 lead in the second inning, only to see the Dodgers come back and retrieve the runs for Valenzuela in the home half of the inning. The Mets opened with walks to Darryl Strawberry and Howard Johnson, and both walks hurt Valenzuela when Tim Teufel singled for one run and Alex Trevino singled for another. But Cone, after striking out the side in the first inning, opened the bottom of the second by walking Eddie Murray, and he paid the price, too. Key Hit for Valenzuela In rapid order, Hubie Brooks and Mike Scioscia singled, cutting the lead to 2-1. Then Cone got two outs, and needed only to retire Valenzuela to hold the damage there. But Valenzuela, who was hitting .283 and who twice this season delivered pinch-hits, drilled a single to center and the Mets' lead was gone. The Mets had several chances to take back the lead, but Valenzuela dazzled them with a variety of speeds and angles and somehow held the act together. He walked the bases loaded in the fourth, but escaped when Cone bounced to first base. He loaded the bases again in the fifth on singles by Dave Magadan and Darryl Strawberry and a walk to Howard Johnson. But he got Teufel on a pop fly to short right, and escaped that time, too. Advertisement Then the Dodgers paid him back for his perseverance. Kirk Gibson opened the home fifth with a single and, one out later, Cone threw an 0-and-1 fastball to Murray, who rocked it into the seats in right field for his 20th home run and a 4-2 lead for the Dodgers. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 24, 1990, on Page A00021 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL;   Cone Outhurled As Mets Fall 4 Out.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »