Eli Manning threw three touchdown passes Sunday and the resurgent Giants defense hounded Aaron Rodgers and the top-seeded Packers right out of the playoffs with a 37-20 victory at Lambeau Field. Manning passed for 330 yards, with exactly half of it going to Hakeem Nicks, who caught seven passes, including two of the touchdowns. The back-breaker was a 37-yarder on  a heave from Manning as time expired in the first half. It extended the Giants lead to 20-10, and seemed to take the wind out of the Packers’ sails.  The Giants defense made sure Rodgers didn’t recover, forcing four turnovers and sacking him four times, to lock down the team’s second playoff win in Green Bay in four years. The last time the Giants won there, in January 2008, they went on to beat the Patriots in the Super Bowl. The Giants will face the 49ers next Sunday in the N.F.C. championship game in San Francisco. The winner will play the A.F.C. champion, either the New England Patriots or the Baltimore Ravens, who also won Sunday, in the Super Bowl. Times reporters and editors provided live coverage and analysis of Sunday’s Giants-Packers N.F.C. divisional playoff game. Read on to follow the game as it happened. 



7:54 P.M. FINAL: Giants 37, Packers 20
 A fair final score for a dominant effort. Anyone out there still want to argue that Eli Manning isn’t an elite quarterback? He threw three touchdown passes today, and is now 2 for 2 in playoff games at Green Bay against M.V.P.-caliber quarterbacks.  Great interception by the Giants’ Deon Grant will finish it. (He scooped that one right off the turf.) That’s the fourth takeaway by the Giants today, five if you count the fumble that wasn’t called.  Eli is Tebowing kneeling it out. @AdamSchefter Adam Schefter Just as everyone expected: Alex Smith would lead his team further in this season’s playoffs than Aaron Rodgers. Mon Jan 16 0:48:14  via Adam Schefter @fbgchase Chase Stuart Aikman-Kelly (’92/’93) and Staubach-Bradhsaw (’75/’78) are the only pair of QBs to start multiple SBs against each other #brady #eli Mon Jan 16 0:40:55  via Chase Stuart Lined up to run left, Jacobs cuts back right and outraces Woodson to the pylon. TOUCHDOWN!! They would have needed an elephant gun to bring him down. The Giants go ahead, 37-20 — yes, 37-20. They have really destroyed the Packers today. Another run laterally loses yards, but he stays in bounds. With 3:51 left, that is a monumental first down, and Bradshaw follows it up by turning the corner and running 24 yards all the way to the 10. Backbreaker. Book your tickets folks, the Giants are going back to San Francisco. Not without some hearts in their throats though as the ball got through another Giant’s hands first. Right down the middle and Michael Boley can’t cover him. TOUCHDOWN, and Green Bay cuts the lead to 30-20 with 4:46 left.  Can’t overstate the value of that mystery penalty on the drive; it came on third down, not fourth, but it handed Green Bay a first down. To their credit, they did something with it. But man, the officials are having a rough day today. The flag kept the drive alive and Rodgers has taken advantage, moving the Packers into scoring position. But the game pauses at the 16, with 5:23 left, as Chris Canty lies injured in the middle of the field. Deon Grant wasn’t happy about whatever happened (they’re looking at Canty’s knee). He went after Jermichael Finley after the play. Rodgers throws an incompletion on third down after running around for 20 minutes waiting for an open receiver. Umenyiora hits him under the arm as he throws and is inexplicably flagged for a “blow to the head.” Really? Anyone see that? Manning drops back immediately, waits patiently for Manningham to cut into the clear as he runs right to left across the back of the end zone and then zips him the ball — TOUCHDOWN!!!! Just like that, the Giants are up by three scores — 30-13 — with 6:48 left. Ballgame? Fighting for a few extra yards could cost the Packers the game. Grant has the ball knocked out by Phillips a fraction of a second before hitting the ground. Blackburn returns it to the 4! Back to a 10-point game at 23-13. Jacobs tried to go wide on second-and-6 but got caught in the open field (a not uncommon outcome when he tries to get too fancy) after only a yard. Manning dropped back to pass on third-and-5, but had no options and accepted the inevitable — and the field goal.  With 7:48 left, he’ll gladly trade the sack for a field goal. Had to come away with something there. It’s getting late for Rodgers now. He makes a big first-down catch at the 17 to extend the drive, but doesn’t get up. Trainers are out to see him.  @judybattista Judy Battista RT @brianstelter: RT @johnjannuzzi: Half the country is watching football. Half is watching the golden globes. The Maras own America. Mon Jan 16 0:09:03  via Judy Battista Rodgers just missed an open Finley on third-and-5 — he’s been uncharacteristically off on aÂ  of throws today (that open, and an earlier one to Jennings near the goal line). So the Packers go for it on fourth down, and Michael Boley grabs Rodgers by the ankles in a collapsing pocket and hauks him down. Giants take over at their 45. But more important: they get the ball away from Rodgers and have a short field to try to extend this lead. The Giants defense is really going to have to earn this one. You have to think Rodgers believes he can wipe out this lead — and more — any time he wants. If only he could get a little help from his receivers. The Giants have had the ball twice in the second half and went three-and-out each time. The crowd had really come to life a bit, but Weatherford’s 51-yard punt completely changed field position.  Packers will start over at their 24. The drive ends with a 35-yarder, but it may cost the Packers their fullback, John Kuhn. He was injured a couple plays earlier and may not return. Starks cuts through a hole and goes 29 yards up the right side. The Giants have two touchdowns longer than that. It takes a quarterback to see it, but Jennings had run right past Grant and was wide open at the 10. A certain score until Umenyiora slapped the ball out just as Rodgers began to draw it back to throw. That looked like a basketball play — he just burst past his blocker and slapped the ball right out of Rodgers’s hand. The Giants recover at their 37, and Aikman is right when he says, “That play just saved a touchdown.” The Packers were marching right down the field. And now they’re not. Manning passed for 274 yards in the first half, or 104 more than the Packers gained over all. So it should not be a surprise that the Giants lead, 20-10. The second half is under way, but a few last words about the first half.  @fbgchase Chase Stuart If getting 5000 passing yds and 30 TDs makes you an elite QB, allowing that much makes you a garbage D.T estament to Rodgers that GB’s 15-1 Sun Jan 15 23:24:25  via Chase Stuart
 The Fifth Down’s Chase Stuart has been consistently critical of Green bay’s defense this season. Here’s a longer essay he wrote on the topic.  Nicks’s touchdown is his second of the game, and his fourth of this year’s playoffs. But most important, it gives the Giants a 10-point lead at the half at 20-10, instead of the field-goal edge they seemed ready to accept. Really bad job by the Packers there, on multiple fronts. Sitting back and letting Manning throw a quick pass to get it started, then letting Bradshaw run across the entire field and then GET OUT OF BOUNDS to stop the clock with six seconds left. But jeez, at least go up and get the Hail Mary. @fbgchase Chase Stuart Packers have had an awful pass defense all season. Lot of excuses were given, but it’s flat out not good. Sun Jan 15 23:10:14  via Chase Stuart Nicks caught it. There were only six seconds left in the half after a 23-yard run by Bradshaw put the ball in Packers territory. Bradshaw did a tremendous job on his run, sideline to sideline, in getting out of bounds to stop the clock. But rather than run a short pass to set up a field goal, Manning chucks it toward three receivers in the left corner of the end zone. Nicks rose — nearly uncontested — and pulled it in for a 37-yard touchdown. Manning’s pass to Jake Ballard is knocked away on third down, and Tynes comes on for a 23-yarder. That makes it 13-10 with 1:51 left in the half. If this was Saints-49ers, we’d still have time for three scores. Packers were all over that. Two-minute warning. Nice curl by Nicks at the sideline on a 29-yard catch. Officials meeting to determine how they’ll give this one back. (Just kidding.) No doubt about this fumble — Kuhn just dropped it. It’s the third time the Giants have covered a loose ball but the first time they’ll get to keep it. Antrel Rolle picked up the free ball and returned it nine yards to the 34. That, coincidentally, was the line of scrimmage for the play when Manning threw his interception moments ago. So no harm, no foul. Jennings hadn’t even made his cut before the ball was released. With a limping Clay Mathews sitting out the series, the Packers finally turn up their blitz and rattle Manning into an INTERCEPTION. He threw a couple of balls away under pressure and dumped off one, but this time his throw as he’s hit sails into the hands of safety Morgan Burnett.  Burnett scrambles to his feet at the 13 and returns it out to the 25. Best catch by a Packers player in about 20 minutes. Maybe it’ll be contagious. UPDATE: Desmond Bishop slammed Manning on the throw, and the ball sailed over Hakeem Nicks who, to be honest, didn’t really attempt to go after it. @FO_MTanier Michael Tanier The Browns receiving corps stopped by to steal some Packers uniforms and play. Sun Jan 15 22:41:18  via Michael Tanier Forget the fumble by Jennings — and I think we can all agree it should have been ruled a fumble — but the Packers need to start catching the perfect balls Rodgers is throwing them. Crabtree’s drop there cost the Packers a first down and forced them to punt. Maybe his arms were numb after getting tattoos all the way down to his wrists. He’s kind of doing what he wants so far. And that is not in the Giants’ best interests. The Packers defense bails out McCarthy there, as the Giants are denied a first down after starting in great field position and Brad Jones busts in from the left side to block Tynes’s 40-yard field goal attempt.   Giants read it the whole way, and Martin recovers it easily. Held his ground in the front row of the coverage team, as he should, and the ball came right to him. Giants start at the Green Bay 41. Risky call by McCarthy there, and it’s not looking too smart right now. Not like he’s sending out the Ravens defense if it fails. Kuhn came open underneath for a short catch and hurdled the only man who could stop him at the goal line. Fox shows a replay of the fumble that wasn’t even before it replayed the touchdown. Tough break for Giants. Mike Pereira, the N.F.L. rules guru, comes on to agree that the ball was out. Doesn’t matter though: tied at 10-10. It’s been a draw so far, even if the Giants are up 7. Does that make sense? Probably not, but it will in a minute when the Packers tie the score. He was out the last several weeks, and is returning today.  But ruling on the field stands; Coughlin and Fox’s Buck and Aikman can’t either. @SamBorden Sam Borden notice referee did NOT say “confirmed” there — that means he couldn’t see enough to overturn ruling on field. Sun Jan 15 22:20:02  via Sam Borden I’ll wait for the replay, but Deon Grant stripped Greg Jennings and Kenny Phillips scooped it up. The officials disagreed, and let Green Bay keep it, but Coughlin just challenged — and it looks as if he might win. @fbgchase Chase Stuart This Green Bay defense is as-advertised. #notagoodthing Sun Jan 15 21:48:51  via Chase Stuart Manning hit him deep middle and he just pushed past the safety and outran everyone up the left sideline. TOUCHDOWN!! Read this week that the Giants led the league in scores over 30 yards this season, and there’s another. Seems like they’ve had a huge one every week for a month now. Cruz’s 99-yarder against the Jets. His 74-yarder against the Cowboys in the season finale. Nicks for 72 last week against Atlanta. Wow. Both wanted to start with 7 but had to settle for 3. But after the Falcons messed around last week by going for it on a couple of fourth downs on a day when their offense didn’t produce a point, WFAN’s Mike Francesa made a good point — really. He said John Madden told him long ago that the best thing a coach can do is get that zero off the scoreboard, “since when you leave it up there it has a way of staying up there longer than it should.” @judybattista Judy Battista There is no way Coughlin is wearing enough to be warm. Sun Jan 15 21:57:46  via Judy Battista Maybe he’s just trying to look tough. He has to be kicking himself, as that forces Green Bay to settle for a Mason Crosby field goal from 47 yards. Rob Gronkowski, Jimmy Graham and Vernon Davis all think he should have gone back to Finley. Rodgers has gone to Jermichael Finley three straight times, and he’s caught two balls to quickly move Green Bay to the Giants 30. Just went to him again as I typed that. Correct call. Here comes Rodgers. @SamBorden Sam Borden I have NEVER understood why the NFL takes away a challenge for a coach getting it right. Makes no sense to me. Sun Jan 15 21:56:27  via Sam Borden Randall Cobb coughed it up when he went down, but it appears he was down after watching the replay. Green Bay challenges, hoping the referee sees what they did. @fbgchase Chase Stuart The Packers were outgained by 100 yards this season, FYI. This is pretty normal for them. Sun Jan 15 21:49:54  via Chase Stuart Manning throws incomplete on third down, and Lawrence Tynes comes on to bang through a 31-yard field goal. Giants lead, 3-0. Giants have run off almost six minutes moving 20 to 20. The shouts of “Cruuuuuuuuuzzzzzz!” after his first catch, and again after that second one, were loud and clear. Giants inside the Green Bay 30 already. The Packers kick it out of the end zone to start the game, and the Giants don’t exactly burst out of the gate: two 1-yard runs and then a timeout with 14 seconds left on the play clock. Judging by the way the Packers coaches were yelling, it might have been a smart play to avoid a penalty for too many men in the huddle. Either way it works out, as Eli Manning rolls right and throws consecutive completions: 19 yards to Mario Manningham and 17 to Victor Cruz. Jason Pierre-Paul proves that even a great player needs a copy editor. @DatBoyJPP Jason Pierre-Paul What a great day to be a Giant it don’t get no better on a great Sunday line this. Sun Jan 15 16:50:32  via Jason Pierre-Paul The Packers were installed as a nine-point favorite in this game, but a surge of optimism around the Giants after their win over the Falcons has cut into that a bit; it’s now 7 1/2. But that’s still more than a touchdown. Fair? Some fans think it’s a little high. @SamBorden Sam Borden Seen in hotel lobby: dude with Cruz jersey carrying championship belt. Solid. Sun Jan 15 15:35:54  via Sam Borden So the Ravens hold off the Texans, 20-13, in a game that was close but — let’s be honest — it never appeared they were going to lose, not to a rookie quarterback lobbing balls in Ed Reed’s neighborhood. I have to say: I’m liking the Patriots-Ravens matchup in the A.F.C. title game — strength vs. strength. Consider this an open thread to discuss the game. Project onto it your hopes, your anxieties, your predictions, your rock-solid conclusions about why the teams’ earlier meetings (this season, or four years ago in the playoffs) offer incontrovertible proof that the Giants (or is it the Packers?) will advance and meet the 49ers next weekend. The New York Times will report on the Giants and Jets throughout the season. You can also find links to coverage from around the league, tips for your fantasy football team and discussion with other football fans. 
			The content on the Fifth Down blog is moving to the pro football page on nytimes.com.Read more… 
			The Jets receiver became a critic of the game and its role in American society. But the decision to walk away was also personal.Read more… 
			John Idzik, the general manager of the Jets, will not retain Scott Cohen, the assistant general manager. Ari Nissim, another high-ranking executive, also will depart.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, answers questions from readers.Read more… 
			Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, will answer questions from readers.Read more… Follow Advertisement