Advertisement  TRACK AND FIELD Javelin Thrower Regains Mark Steve Backley regained his world record in the men's javelin throw yesterday with a heave of 298 feet 6 inches in an International Amateur Athletic Federation Grand Prix meet at Crystal Palace in London. Opposing Jan Zelezny of Czechoslovakia, the man who took the mark from him at Oslo, Norway, a week ago, Backley became the first man to throw the javelin more than 90 meters (295-3). In the Bislet Games at Oslo, Zelezny had a throw of 294-2 to break Backley's mark by three inches. Zelezny's best throw this time was 274-9.(AP) TENNIS Agassi Advances in D.C. Top-seeded Andre Agassi fought off five set points in the first set before overpowering Richey Reneberg, 7-6, 6-0, yesterday to join Brad Gilbert, Jim Grabb and Michael Chang in the semifinals of the Sovran Bank Classic in Washington. Gilbert, seeded second and a finalist in the tournament in 1987 and 1989, beat Michael Stich of West Germany, 6-3, 6-4. Derrick Rostagno, playing the day after he upset John McEnroe, lost, 6-4, 6-3, to the sixth-seeded Grabb.(AP) GOLF Daniel Ahead by Two Shots Beth Daniel shot a seven-under-par 65 and took a two-stroke lead yesterday after the first round of the Ladies Professional Golf Association Phar-Mor Youngstown Classic in Vienna, Ohio. Betsy King, who won the United States Women's Open last week, was tied with Dottie Mochrie and Myra Blackwelder at 67. Jill Briles, Diane Heinicke-Rauch, Colleen Walker and Juli Inkster were at 68.(AP) One-Shot Lead in Seniors: Jim O'Hern had six birdies, no bogeys and the lead yesterday after the first round of the $500,000 Ameritech Senior Open in Acme, Mich. O'Hern shot 66 over the 6,679-yard Bear course at Grand Traverse Resort for a one-shot lead over Chi Chi Rodriguez and Don January.(AP) We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 21, 1990, on Page 1001042 of the National edition with the headline: RESULTS PLUS.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »