Advertisement 
On Pro Basketball  By                     
 HARVEY ARATON
 
MAY 15, 2014
 On the verge of accepting his first head coaching position, Steve Kerr, in late-game negotiations, played it calculatingly cool. Even to Phil Jackson, a renowned sideline stoic and the man considered to be his mentor, Kerr never showed his true hand. Common sense should have made it obvious that Kerr, who was being courted by the Knicks and the Golden State Warriors, would prefer the more attractive Bay Area job once it became vacant. But the N.B.A. world believed — or was led to believe — that Kerr wanted to once again be on Jackson’s team. The ability to misdirect should serve Kerr well as he begins the next phase of his professional life. While Jackson came calling with his 11 championship rings as a coach and his illustrious past, he also brought the baggage of a new partner. Guarantees of autonomy notwithstanding, he works for James L. Dolan, the chairman of Madison Square Garden, whose record as the ultimate (and meddling) boss of the Knicks also speaks for itself. Advertisement According to a person with close knowledge of Kerr’s decision Wednesday to accept a five-year offer to replace Mark Jackson with the Warriors, Kerr was never enthusiastic about launching his coaching career in the volatile Garden corridors. He allowed negotiations to go as far as they did because he was unsure of Golden State’s intentions and because of his relationship with Jackson, whom he helped win three titles in Chicago as a knockdown shooter. Advertisement “It was agonizing to say no to Phil because of what I think of him and what he’s done for my career,” Kerr said in an interview Wednesday night with NBA.com. “When Phil Jackson asks you to coach the Knicks, how do you say no?” He found a way because everything he wanted — better terms, team and locality — was out West, where he is from. A journeyman like Kerr, who played for six teams during a 15-year career, can retire as a player with many friendships based on shared professional experiences. But it was a connection he had made as the general manager in Phoenix that served as a counterweight to Jackson’s presence in New York. Kerr is close with Rick Welts, president and chief of operations for the Warriors, and that made the Golden State job especially appealing to him. Welts is a longtime N.B.A. executive who worked in the Suns’ front office when Kerr was there. Beyond proximity to his wife and home in San Diego, his mother in Los Angeles and his daughter, a student at U.C. Berkeley, the Warriors offered a playoff-ready roster with a younger and more attractive superstar in Stephen Curry than what the Knicks would present, assuming they can re-sign Carmelo Anthony. In assessing the Knicks’ situation, Kerr had told confidants that he believed Anthony could be a dynamic player in the triangle offense that Jackson is hoping to have his new coach install. But Kerr was less sanguine about whether Anthony, who will turn 30 this month, would be eager to retailor his game at this point in his career. Kerr was wary of Anthony’s willingness to deal with a learning curve, along with the prospect of a roster reconstruction, or what he described to NBA.com as “a big undertaking” that would “take time.” Advertisement Kerr also worried about Dolan’s patience and his willingness to allow Jackson the freedom to potentially let Anthony — Dolan’s signature acquisition and the Knicks’ only brand-name star — leave as a free agent this summer should they fail to agree on how much of a hometown discount, if any, Anthony should accept to give Jackson salary-cap flexibility. In doing his homework and speaking to many people about Dolan’s methodology, Kerr became concerned about an inevitable clash between ownership and the fiercely independent and occasionally iconoclastic Jackson. Jackson raised eyebrows and the possibility of upsetting Dolan when, in his postseason news conference, he assessed the Anthony uncertainty by saying: “If it’s in the cards, man, are we fortunate. If it’s not in the cards, man, are we fortunate. We’re going forward, anyway.” That led to educated speculation that Jackson might actually prefer a radical remake of his roster, rather than try to coax another star to share the stage, and the ball, with Anthony in the summer of 2015. With the Warriors, Kerr inherits a team that lost a seven-game first-round playoff series to the Los Angeles Clippers without its injured starting center, Andrew Bogut. Kerr did think twice about having to compete in the Western Conference, where 51 victories were enough to earn the Warriors only the sixth seed. The other potential concern was the owner Joe Lacob’s abrupt dismissal of Mark Jackson, a first-time coach who was a competitive success and liked by his players.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Welts was said to assuage those fears by explaining to Kerr that Jackson had personality issues with people in the front office besides the owner. Perhaps the most appealing aspect of the Warriors job is that Kerr can more easily create his own coaching persona. No matter whom he hires, Phil Jackson is bound to cast a long coaching shadow as president of the Knicks. Kerr, who also played for Gregg Popovich in San Antonio, told The San Jose Mercury News on Thursday that he would probably install only some aspects of the triangle because “the game has changed, and I think my philosophy would reflect that.” Translation: Out West, it should be easier for Kerr to be his own man. Who will now be Jackson’s man? During his news conference, he said he had a surprising “number of conversations” with jobless coaches who had expressed interest in running the triangle. Advertisement Maybe Plan B will be to chase a veteran like Lionel Hollins. Maybe Jackson will make a play for an old Lakers sidekick, Denver’s Brian Shaw, or turn to another name — Derek Fisher, for one — from his sizable roster of championship ring wearers. The truth is that the loss of Kerr is softened by the presence of Jackson. Not that he is likely to hire himself, but in his 11 coaching rings is the Knicks’ real foundation of hope. The cautionary part of the story for future Jackson recruits, however, is that while Kerr did not believe Dolan obstructed Jackson in the pursuit, Dolan had an impact on the decision by merely being who he is. In planning his next play, the smart coach must always weigh the likelihood of past being prelude. A version of this article appears in print on May 16, 2014, on Page B12 of the New York edition with the headline: With Warriors, Kerr Follows the Path of Least Tumult.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »