Advertisement By JOE DRAPEMAY 19, 2014
 California Chrome fans can breathe easy: New York regulators will allow the horse to wear a nasal strip in the Belmont Stakes on June 7, when he will try to become only the 12th horse to win the Triple Crown. The three stewards at Belmont Park unanimously agreed Monday to allow the use of nasal strips for all horses competing at New York Racing Association racetracks after the state’s equine medical director recommended that they discontinue their ban. “Equine nasal strips do not enhance equine performance nor do they pose a risk to equine health or safety and as such do not need to be regulated,” Dr. Scott Palmer, the equine medical director for the New York Gaming Commission, said in a letter sent to racing officials. The Flair Nasal Strip is legal in most jurisdictions, and California Chrome has been wearing one since Perry Martin, one of his owners, suggested it after the colt finished sixth last fall in a stakes race. California Chrome has won six straight races since the white patch went on his white blaze. Advertisement On Sunday morning, the colt’s trainer, Art Sherman, raised the possibility that California Chrome might not run if he could not wear the nasal strip. Later that afternoon, Sherman contacted New York officials requesting permission to use nasal strips on the horse. Advertisement The strips look similar to the Breathe Right strips worn by N.F.L. players and chronic snorers. But unlike humans, who can breathe through their nose and mouth, horses take in air only through their nose. “So any collapse of airway can lead to a great deal of resistance in the lungs,” said Dr. Ed Blach, who designed the strip with another veterinarian, Dr. Jim Chiapetta.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The strips came to the forefront of the sport at the 1999 Breeders’ Cup at Gulfstream Park in South Florida and have been used by Derby-winning trainers like Graham Motion, Nick Zito and D. Wayne Lukas. Blach said they were popular in equestrian sports: about 70 percent of the horses competing in the recent Rolex Kentucky Three Day Event wore strips. They have been tested on hundreds of horses in more than a half-dozen university-level studies, which have found that the strips improved oxygen intake. “The strip reduces the amount of negative pressure on the lungs, reduces fatigue and helps speed recovery,” said Blach, who is the chief operating officer at Flair. “From our standpoint, healthy horses perform better.” In 2012, I’ll Have Another wore the strip in the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness, but New York stewards ruled that it would be prohibited for the Belmont, the third leg of the Triple Crown. The colt’s trainer, Doug O’Neill, agreed to abandon it, though in the end I’ll Have Another was scratched on the eve of the Belmont because of a leg injury. In his letter, Palmer acknowledged that there had been sufficient studies on the nasal strip and that none proved it gave horses a competitive advantage or provided any evidence that it should be regulated. “I am unfamiliar with any research indicating that equine nasal strips enable a horse to run faster with nasal strips than without them,” he said. “In other words, there is no evidence they have a performance enhancing effect. Equine nasal strips do not pose a welfare or safety risk to the horse.” A version of this article appears in print on May 20, 2014, on Page B14 of the New York edition with the headline: Ruling Clears Way for California Chrome to Run in Belmont.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »