Advertisement By JOE SEXTON In the air and thus no longer in control, James Patrick hurtled headlong toward the sideboards at the Civic Arena in Pittsburgh on Saturday night. For any National Hockey League player, it is the scariest sensation imaginable. For the Rangers, it stood to be among the worst potential setbacks conceivable. "When I lost my feet, there was a split-second when I watched the boards coming at me and thought I could wind up paralyzed," said Patrick, the Rangers' valuable defenseman who went down midway through the opening period of what would evolve into a dramatic and satisfying 4-3 triumph over the Penguins. Patrick, for whom an accidental trip became a momentary adventure in fatalism, ultimately crashed face first into the base of the boards. He could not, for an instant, breathe, but he could throughout feel pain in his back, and 12 hours later he smiled at the irony of how his hurt never felt so good or at least so reassuring. Smiling and Surviving "I figured that if I was able to feel the injury it wasn't going to be wildly bad," said Patrick, having survived the fall, the night and a packed plane ride back to New York with the ability to still smile. "Still, it was quite sore." Advertisement Neither was the trauma quite over. Patrick, who rose under his own power after several minutes, spent the remainder of the first period at the end of the bench. And there he sat, frozen in discomfort, unable to get up to celebrate Mike Gartner's goal minutes later, disinclined to try and muster what it would take to skate across the ice to the locker room. Advertisement "It got worse and worse," Patrick said of the pain and tightness in his back. "And when I got to the locker room, the doctor looked at it and told me it would get even worse. He said the vertebrae were probably out of line." The Rangers initially announced the injury as a sprain to Patrick's mid-back and listed his status as day to day. Early yesterday, they said he would be re-examined today and that his status for tonight's game against the Maple Leafs at the Garden was questionable.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. For his part, Patrick said that the effects of medication to dull the pain and a hot shower left him encouraged about his prospects for a reasonable speedy recovery, although he hinted that the injury might also have affected his ribs. Relief, then, was the dominant emotion marking the team's return from Pittsburgh, and it was an emotion prompted not only by the comforting sight of Patrick walking with relative ease through the airport. The Rangers, who were annoyed at the quality of their performance in as well as the outcome of Friday night's 3-2 loss to the Devils, wasted a 3-0 lead and as a result very nearly squandered the 40 minutes of disciplined, determined effort that had produced it. But Brian Mullen's goalmouth score -- one literally out of midair as the right wing hatcheted a flying puck behind Tom Barrasso -- halted the late slide and sent the Rangers on a hasty exit three minutes later, boasting a 6-3 record, a 3-1 mark in the Patrick Division and a share of first place. Meanwhile, the Devils, who had claimed a solo hold on first place with Friday night's hard-earned victory, went to Washington and promptly went silently into the night, 4-0 shutout victims of the Capitals on Saturday night. The Devils, unbeaten at the Meadowlands this season, are 0-3 on the road, having been outscored, 18-8. The Islanders, who have lost players to injury and suspension, lost last weekend altogether, as well, going down to Washington, 4-3, Friday night, and to the Sabres, a team without a previousvictory, 3-1, at the Coliseum on Saturday night. At the moment, there is now just one team, the Maple Leafs, with fewer points than the 2-5 Islanders. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on October 22, 1990, on Page C00002 of the National edition with the headline: N.H.L.; Patrick Is Smiling But It Hurts a Bit.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »