Advertisement By MALCOLM MORAN The reality of the bottom line often creeps into Frank Viola's professional conversations, an understanding that there is very little consolation in his business. Near the end of a 19-victory season, Viola looks at the three most recent bottom lines and does not like what he sees. ''This might sound - I don't know what it's going to sound like, but it seems to be my season right now,'' Viola said after the Mets' 3-2 loss to the Cubs yesterday. ''It seems like you get close enough and then all of a sudden you don't get over the hill.'' Near the end of a season in which Viola took a 13-3 record into the All-Star Game break, he has lost 9 of the 15 decisions since. His earned run average since the break, 3.08, is not an alarming increase over his 2.63 level for the season. But the last three lines say 0-3. ''Probably the first few weeks after the season, looking back at those three games, personally it'll just eat at me,'' said Viola, who has a 19-12 record. ''Because I've always taken pride in being a second-half pitcher.'' Advertisement Taking Responsibility For a pitcher who three years ago told a camera he was going to Disney World, after Viola won the seventh game of the World Series for the Minnesota Twins, this is not a way to finish a season. Advertisement ''It has been frustrating lately, especially the way the team has been playing,'' Viola said. ''I don't care how well I've thrown the ball. The bottom line is it's still a loss. I'm going to take responsibility for that.'' Ten days ago, with his team one game behind the Pirates in the National League East, Viola and the Mets took a 4-2 lead into the eighth inning of the first game of the doubleheader with Montreal. The Mets ended the day two and a half games out of first.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Six days ago, a 3-1 lead for Viola in the sixth inning vanished at Wrigley Field, and what could have been a two-game deficit became three after Doug Dascenzo's two-out single through the middle - a grounder Viola felt he should have fielded - drove in the tie-breaking run. Then yesterday it was Dascenzo again with two out, reaching out to pull an outside, two-strike pitch into right field for the third run of the second inning, and the eventual difference. As the count reached 1 ball and 2 strikes, Dascenzo was just trying to make contact when his single drove home Domingo Ramos. Dascenzo and Ramos both fouled off two-strike pitches. 'Boom-Boom-Boom' ''It just seems to happen over a few hitters,'' Viola said. ''And then you look on the board and there's three runs scored. If it's spread out more, then it wouldn't matter. But it seems to go, boom-boom-boom. All of a sudden I look up, and we're losing, 3-0. That's frustrating.'' The irony was that the runs were unearned following Tom Herr's inability to hold Howard Johnson's one-hop throw for a force at second base. It took a World Series victory in Minnesota for Viola to escape the reputation of coming unglued after defensive mistakes. Yesterday he said he was not concerned about a new reputation emerging from the last three bottom lines. ''I learned my lesson,'' he said. ''As long as I can look myself in the mirror and say I did the best job I can, that's the only one that counts.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 30, 1990, on Page 8008004 of the National edition with the headline: Baseball;   Viola Frustrated By Recent Losses.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »