Advertisement By MURRAY CHASS Two part owners of the Yankees did yesterday what George Steinbrenner, the principal owner, cannot do. They sued the baseball commissioner. Daniel McCarthy, a lawyer, and Harold Bowman, a businessman, filed suit in United States District Court in Cleveland seeking to prevent the agreement between Steinbrenner and Commissioner Fay Vincent from taking effect Monday. Under the agreement, reached July 30, Steinbrenner must relinquish management and day-to-day operation of the Yankees no later than Monday. Steinbrenner also agreed not to challenge the commissioner's action in court. Judge Alice Batchelder scheduled a hearing for 11 A.M. today on the limited partners' request for a temporary restraining order that would keep Steinbrenner in his position as general partner at least until Judge Batchelder rules on the request for a preliminary injunction. McCarthy, a longtime Steinbrenner friend and tax attorney, and Bowman filed the lawsuit on behalf of all of the limited partners against Vincent; John Dowd, who conducted the Steinbrenner investigation, and, technically, the Yankees. Advertisement Allegation of Tampering McCarthy and Bowman allege that Vincent and Dowd were unfair and biased in their investigation and hearing. They also allege that Dowd ''secretly and illegally tampered with sworn deposition testimony'' of some of the witnesses he interviewed. Advertisement A lawyer involved in another aspect of the case said that the court reporter who transcribed the depositions has said that Dowd told him to omit questions and answers from the transcripts, but no one from the reporting firm returned telephone calls seeking confirmation. Vincent, in a statement, denied the allegations against him and Dowd, saying they ''are without merit and we are confident that the matter will be disposed of by the court in Cleveland.'' The suit put Robert Nederlander in a curious position. As a limited partner, he is a plaintiff. However, he has been named to succeed Steinbrenner as the general partner, and if the major league club owners approve him, perhaps in 30 days, he would become a defendant as the chief officer of the Yankees. Disagreement Among Partners Under partnership law, one or more partners are general partners, with the right to manage the partnership's assets. The limited partners share in the profits, but do not make management decisions. The telephone at Nederlander's office went unanswered late yesterday afternoon after the suit was filed. Steinbrenner did not respond to attempts to reach him by telephone. ''George has nothing to do with this,'' said Joe Carella, a spokesman for Steinbrenner. Not all of the limited partners agreed with the legal action even though it was filed on their behalf. Some, in fact, were angry.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ''He has no right to do that until he gets everybody's permissions,'' said Jack Satter. ''I have to find out what it's all about.'' Another partner, who asked not to be identified but who could be classified as pro-Steinbrenner, said: ''Bowman comes to one meeting every seven years. I don't understand what they're doing. They're filing in my best interests? No one asked me.'' Advertisement Very few of the partners apparently knew that the lawsuit was being filed yesterday. Charlotte Witkind said she first hear about it on the radio. ''I wouldn't want in the suit at this point,'' she said. 'Interference With Contracts' According to two partners, McCarthy raised the possibility of a lawsuit at the partners' meeting in Cleveland on Wednesday. ''He tried to get the partners riled up, thinking that they would get so riled up they would do it,'' one partner said. ''He was trying to get everybody involved, but no one wanted to join him. He's just trying to do what George can't do.'' Because McCarthy and Bowman are not party to the agreement between Vincent and Steinbrenner, their action raised the question of whether they could sue to block the agreement. Mark Cohen, their lead lawyer, said they could under the principle of ''tortious interference with contracts.'' ''The commissioner's actions on July 30 interfered with their limited partnership agreement,'' Cohen said by telephone from Cleveland. ''The agreement among all of them is that Steinbrenner would be the general partner and would be the one who managed the team on a day-to-day basis. They feel they're contractually entitled to him being in control and they want that to continue.'' In the lawsuit, the complaining partners contend that they would suffer ''irreparable harm'' if Steinbrenner cannot continue as the general partner. Points in Vincent's Favor The commissioner would seem to have two major points in his favor in the case. First, commissioners have always fared well in Federal court when their decisions or authority have been challenged. Second, Steinbrenner agreed that his conduct as outlined by Vincent was ''not in the best interests of baseball'' and accepted the sanctions against him. Furthermore, Vincent said at the time of his hearing that he was relying solely on Steinbrenner's testimony before him. His decision, the commissioner said, ''is largely the result of admitted misconduct by Mr. Steinbrenner.'' In his statement, Vincent said that the suit ''represents an attempt to prevent Mr. Steinbrenner from having to honor'' the agreement. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 17, 1990, on Page A00021 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL;   Yankees Partners Sue Baseball Commissioner.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »