Advertisement By WILLIAM C. RHODEN and  A few hours before a game between the third-ranked Arkansas Razorbacks and the German national team last week, Nolan Richardson, the Arkansas basketball coach, sat in a hotel cafeteria and elaborated on one of his favorite themes: strugglin'. Overcoming the odds, coming from behind, strugglin'. "Right now," he was saying, "I'm behind in the game. I'm going to struggle like hell to catch up. Don't care if I win 30 games or win the national championship. I'll come back and start strugglin' all over again. I don't feel caught up." A Tumultuous Tenure In six seasons here, Richardson has cleaned house, ridding the team he inherited of drug and alcohol abuse problems. He brought in his own players, and force-fed Razorback fans a wide-open fastbreak style of play that he called -- and now they call -- "Forty Minutes of Hell" basketball. But each step has been a struggle. After a 12-16 finish in the 1985-1986 season, Arkansas finished 19-14 in 1987 and went to the National Invitation Tournament. But the season was marked by tragedy -- the death of Richardson's teen-age daughter, Yvonne, after a two-year battle with leukemia. Advertisement Arkansas reached the Final Four in 1990, and last season the Razorbacks won their third straight Southwest Conference championship. But Arkansas was blocked from a second straight Final Four appearance by Kansas. Advertisement This season, Arkansas makes its eagerly waited debut in the Southeastern Conference. With four starters back from last year's 34-4 team, Arkansas is being picked to win the conference title. Now Richardson says he is filled with an entirely new sense of struggle. He has to re-educate Arkansas fans, tell them that the days of routine 30-point victories are over. Just Trying to Survive "They've got to understand that there are going to be some struggles, some 1-pointers, some barn-burners," Richardson said, "and I'm talking about at home, not on the road. The key now is to survive." This is exactly where Richardson wants to be. The theme of his life is toughness and negotiating the ordeal. But as Arkansas anticipates its 69th basketball season, Richardson concedes that this campaign is beginning with a burden he would have preferred not to carry. When the Razorbacks begin the season at the Maui Classic in Hawaii tomorrow, they will be without two starters: Todd Day, the 6-foot-7-inch guard, and 6-7 forward Roosevelt Wallace. They will also be without two other key players: Darrell Hawkins, a 6-5 forward, and Elmer Martin, a 6-8 redshirt freshman. The players are serving two-month suspensions from basketball play because of an incident in the Bud Walton athletic dormitory last February. According to the campus police report, the incident involved the four players and a 34-year-old woman, who said the four had raped her. No Formal Charges The players said they had had sex with the woman with her consent. She never pressed charges and the prosecutor, after an investigation, said that his office would not prosecute the case. Advertisement But the University Judicial Board, which consists of five faculty members and four students, voted to suspend the players from competition for one year. The players appealed (Day's parents threatened to sue) and ultimately Alan Sugg, the president of the state university system, reduced the penalty to basketball suspensions through mid-December. While Arkansas basketball is as popular as ever in the state, the incident strained the relationship between some members of the student body and women's groups, and the basketball team. Last summer Oliver Miller, the Razorbacks' 6-9 senior center, was suspended for the first two games of this season by Richardson after a fight with a student who, Miller said, called him a rapist, and referred to him using a racial epithet.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Then last Tuesday, Frank Broyles, the Arkansas athletic director, confirmed that he had been interviewed by an enforcement officer of the National Collegiate Athletic Association. The interview was in connection with two junior-college transfers who are students here and will be eligible to play basketball next season. The visit was based on an anonymous letter sent to the N.C.A.A. saying that the players had been given summer jobs through Arkansas boosters, which would be a violation of N.C.A.A. rules. . The letter also questioned how the students were putting themselves through school this year. "I haven't talked to anyone from the N.C.A.A.," Richardson said. "The kids took out loans like every other student and have part-time jobs like most every other student. We had nothing to do with it. The N.C.A.A. can come in and look. We have nothing to hide." Nothing to hide, yet Richardson admits that the cumulative effect of the suspensions and the aftershocks, and now the N.C.A.A.'s interview with Broyles, have threatened his credibility and that of his program. "I'm not worried about the fans," Richardson said. "If we turn on the lights right now we'll get 9,000 fans and we won't even be there. "But I don't just see myself as just a basketball coach. I see myself as a person who's active in the community. I try to get the players to see themselves as more than basketball players but as citizens, and I'm constantly preaching that that's why they have to be extra careful what they say, where they go. Advertisement "The thing that bothered me about the dorm incident is not that it got blown up, but that an incident like that happened. My pride was hurt. I almost resigned. I felt the players betrayed me and that hurt." For all the problems it caused, the suspensions have had at least one positive effect on Arkansas's basketball fortunes. The absence of Day, Wallace and Miller has forced reserves to develop. It also allowed Isaiah Morris, an explosive 6-9 senior forward who started last season, to assert himself offensively. Morris scored 29 points and 20 points respectively in two exhibition victories last week. The great unknown is how Day, the team's leading scorer and one of the nation's best offensive players, will respond to being disciplined. In summer school Day and some other students who were not athletes were sanctioned for cheating on a test. They all received zeros for the test and were placed on probation. Since Day was already on probation, his suspension was extended to January, although the date of his return has not been determined. "I made a mistake," Day said about his problems before the team left for Hawaii without him. "I've had time to think about who I am, things about me that I need to change." Richardson often tells his players that they don't know what strugglin' means. Now adversity has enveloped Arkansas in a smothering full-court press. What remains to be seen is whether they can beat it. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on November 24, 1991, on Page 8008002 of the National edition with the headline: COLLEGE BASKETBALL '91-'92; Arkansas Is Behind Before the First Tip-Off.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »