Advertisement By JOEL PETTERSONMAY 15, 2014
 The 2014 World Cup begins on June 12, when Brazil plays Croatia in the opening match. Reporters and editors for The Times will count down to the start of the tournament each day with a short capsule of news and interesting tidbits. There has been plenty of hand-wringing over the potentially scorching conditions of Qatar’s World Cup in 2022, but heat-averse teams and fans could have a more eminent concern: El Niño. Scientists at the University of Reading in England reported last week that there was a 60 percent chance of Niño conditions being in place by July, which could make the latter stages of the World Cup a bit warmer. “If it does occur,” Nicholas Klingaman, a climate scientist at the university, said in a news release, “it would increase the risk of uncomfortably hot and dry conditions in Brazil during June and July, especially in the southern and eastern parts of the country.” Advertisement This is no big concern for the United States, which plays all of its first-round games in the northern part of the country and will be dealing with tropical conditions anyway, especially against Portugal in the Amazon city Manaus.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But the report caused some distress in England. The English, who start in Manaus, will play their second and third group stage matches in the southern part of Brazil, which could get a bit warmer. “If players and coaching staff were hoping for milder and more favorable conditions for their remaining matches,” Klingaman said, referring to Brazil, “it looks more likely that they could be disappointed.” Advertisement Klingaman said Niño increases the average temperature in Rio de Janeiro in June and July by about 1.6 degrees and reduces cloud cover. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »