Advertisement  AP The most active people on the baseball field during a session of the Little League World Series today were the dozen groundskeepers who battled rain and mud in a losing cause. The dirty dozen rebuilt part of the Lamade Stadium infield, covering and then uncovering the infield with a tarpulin three times. But they couldn't beat the elements, and that means the championship game of the World Series will not be played as scheduled on Saturday afternoon. The 43 previous Little League finals were played on Saturday afternoons. The start of the 1980 game was delayed an hour and a half by rain. Safety Comes First Steve Keener, a spokesman for the Little League, said that while crews struggled to get the games in so that the Little League could keep its championship game on national television Saturday, player safety had to come first. Advertisement ''The tournament committee has examined the playing field and found it to be unplayable,'' the public address announcer, Cliff Blair, said at 4:03 P.M., two hours after the East-South quarterfinal game was scheduled to resume. Advertisement A television station helicopter even hovered above the field to blow off water, but 10 minutes into its flight more rain fell.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The East-South quarterfinal was suspended on Wednesday in the bottom of the third inning, with Shippensburg, Pa., leading Mobile, Ala., 3-0. The game was set to resume this morning, then was set back four hours, to 2 P.M. The teams were suited up for most of the day, but never took the field. No Doubleheaders Allowed Under Little League rules, players cannot participate in doubleheaders. If they could, games could be made up on Friday to keep the final on schedule. Now the last two quarterfinals are scheduled Friday, the semifinals for Saturday and the championship on Sunday. ''We will not cancel the World Series,'' Keener said, even if the delays stretch into Monday or Tuesday. ''We will undertake major efforts to get the field ready. It's a sad day for the kids who worked so hard to get here.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 24, 1990, on Page A00022 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL;   Joy Postponed in Mudville: Rainout for Little Leaguers.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »