Advertisement By WILLIAM C. RHODEN and SPECIAL TO THE NEW YORK TIMES The 12th Olympic Festival ended this evening with solid reviews for a job well done, but also with a nagging question that has remained unanswered for the last five years: What does it all mean? The Festival opened with Robert Helmick, the United States Olympic Committee president, announcing that a panel had been formed to reassess the focus of the nine-day event. He also held open the possibility that foreign athletes might be invited to compete in the future. Between the opening statements and the closing ceremony, the Festival lived up to its reputation for producing inspired performances from young athletes, some of whom were enjoying their first major competition at a national level. William Roth, a 19-year-old gymnast from Temple University, won five gold and two silver medals in a stunning series of performances, while Damon Bailey, an incoming freshman basketball player at Indiana, showed his court savvy and served as a catalyst for two of the North team's comeback victories. Indira Allick, a 15-year-old swimmer from San Antonio, won five medals -a gold, two silver and two bronze -while Jeff Commings, a 16-year-old from Blackjack, Mo., became the first black swimmer in Olympic Festival history to win a gold medal by winning the 100-meter breaststroke. Seven single-session attendance records were broken and 11 total attendance records fell. Advertisement Parting of the Ways The 1990 Festival, however, may also be remembered for ushering in a parting between the National Collegiate Athletic Association and the national governing bodies of many sports, which rely on the N.C.A.A. to train many of their elite athletes. Advertisement Until this year, the federations affiliated with the Olympic Committee have enjoyed a cozy, largely unobserved relationship with the N.C.A.A. But now, in the wake of a proposal by the N.C.A.A. that would effectively eliminate year-round training, college presidents find that they have stepped on toes they hadn't realized existed. The first sounds of discomfort were registered during competition here last week. ''If this rule is passed, competitive swimmers will be forced to drop out of school in order to train for international competition,'' said Jeff Diamond, the director of swimming services for United States Swimming. ''The entire level of competitive swimming in this country will deteriorate.'' Strong Opposition to Proposal The swimming federation worked feverishly last week to circulate its opposition to the N.C.A.A. presidents' proposal to reduce training time. The gymnastics, fencing, volleyball and track and field federations also reacted strongly, though mostly in private. While they are often asssociated with intercollegiate athletics, the federations are, in fact, private groups that rely on colleges to provide many if not most of the athletes for national teams. ''The difference is that their goal is to see the United States be as good as possible,'' said Art Shurlock, the U.C.L.A. gymnastics coach, and the head coach of the South at the Festival.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ''If this rule is adopted, the top college guys will drop out of college and train in private clubs,'' he said. ''I have six guys on my team who are Olympians. It would decimate my team.'' Different Goals But the presidents are now suggesting that colleges should not be in the business of training fencers, gymnasts, swimmers, volleyball players and track and field athletes for national governing bodies. Perhaps the central issue between the colleges and 19 federations whose sports are contested by the N.C.A.A. and in the Olympics is that the federations are not educational organizations and their goals are not always consistent with those of the N.C.A.A. Advertisement For example, during the Festival basketball competition, some coaches pointed out the inconsistency of allowing athletes who will be academically ineligible to compete for their colleges next season to compete in the Festival. Many felt that roster spots should be filled by athletes who met the criteria to play their first year in college. 'A Free Enterprise' Bill Wall, the executive director of U.S.A. Basketball, said that his association's mission was separate from that of the N.C.A.A. ''The Olympics is a free enterprise,'' Wall said. ''We play the best person that's out there. He doesn't even have to be in school.'' The time reductions may have a silver lining for the U.S.O.C., because the proposals might force the governing bodies to send their best athletes to future Festivals. In the past, the organizations have often refused, primarily because they knew that the top swimmers, divers, gymnasts and runners would have a full schedule of training and competition during the school year. ''I think the Olympic Festival is going to be the place to be in the future,'' Shurlock said. ''My concern is what's going to happen to college. Colleges now are the perfect training ground for athletes. The message we're trying to send to the presidents is that we have an outstanding system. Don't change it.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 16, 1990, on Page C00008 of the National edition with the headline: Festival Ends Amid Questions.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »