Advertisement By NELSON BRYANT One way to become acquainted with the stunning wilderness of New York State's Adirondack Park would be to join one of the canoe-hiking excursions offered by Adirondack Wilderness Tours. The organization's lodge near Saranac Lake Village is home base for a full week of sojourns into the park. The program begins with an afternoon of whatever canoeing instruction is needed, and in the days that follow, the participants (the maximum is 14) visit a different area each day. This might involve a few hours of canoeing, plus hiking up Long Pond Mountain and St. Regis Mountain, both easy climbs that, Dick Beamish, the organization's director, says offer ''spectacular views of the surrounding lake country.'' Evening activities often include an ecologist, a wildlife biologist or a forester lecturing and showing films and slides of the Adirondacks. Sometimes a local string band is invited to play mountain songs or provide music for a square dance. On one day during the week, the group visits the Adirondack Museum in Blue Mountain Lake Village for a bit of regional history, and that afternoon there is a hike up and down nearby Blue Mountain for a panoramic view of the central Adirondacks, including the Eckford lake chain. In addition to sheer pleasure, good exercise and relaxation, these endeavors are intended to immerse those who take part in the ambiance of the park. Advertisement There are six such weekly offerings this year: July 21-28; Aug. 4-11, 18-25; Sept. 1-8, 15-22 and Sept. 29-Oct. 6. Advertisement The cost, which includes lodging, meals, guide service, equipment, instruction and evening programs, is $650 per person. For those who prefer to sleep in platform tents, the fee is $550. Those alone will share a room or tent with one other person. The July and August sessions are just about filled, says Beamish, but there are still several openings in the others. For information and reservations, call (518) 891-1080. rrThese Adirondack adventures are not intended to be endurance tests, but those who do take part should be in decent physical condition. Occasionally, some members of a group might want to do additional paddling. For such individuals, ''we will add on a few extra miles,'' Beamish said. The average daily paddle, generally in flat water, is 10 miles in about five hours.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Many wanderers of the Adirondacks believe that from September through early October is the best time to visit the region. The days are crisp. The nights are cool. Bugs and tourists are scarce, and the fall colors, which begin to appear around Labor Day, build to a peak by the close of September. Beamish is aware that some visitors might not want to spend a full week in the Adirondacks, or might prefer to camp out in the bush, with or without a guide. He suggests that these individuals get in touch with canoe outfitters in the area. One such establishment is the St. Regis Canoe Outfitters of Lake Clear, N.Y. St. Regis provides canoes, equipment, maps, and even a guide. Dave and Kathy Cilley are its proprietors. Their telephone number is (518) rr891-1838. rrBrian McDonnell is another outfitter recommended by Beamish. McDonnell, president of the New York State Guides Association, is involved in two operations, Guides for All Seasons and All Seasons Outfitters. Together, these two enterprises offer canoe trips in both New York State and Canada, fishing, hunting, white-water rafting and cross-country skiing in the winter. McDonnell and his associates will plan a canoe trip for you in full detail and provide everything, including the meals. If you wish to go it alone with your own gear and food, they will suggest a suitable route and tell you where to find the bass, pike or trout that you would like to encounter. Information may be obtained by writing McDonnell at P.O. Box 855, Saranac Lake Village, N.Y. 12983; telephone (518) 891-1176. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on July 12, 1990, on Page B00013 of the National edition with the headline: Outdoors;   Canoe-Hiking Tours In Adirondack Park.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »