Advertisement By JOSEPH DURSO The St. Louis Cardinals reached up from last place in the National League East today and did what no team had done in two months: They defeated Dwight Gooden. But Gooden helped them by doing something even rarer than losing. He made a mental mistake in the sixth inning by throwing to the wrong base, and paid the full price when the next Cardinal batter drove in three runs. ''I take all the blame for throwing to the wrong base,'' Gooden said later. ''I know better than that. I'd have to agree the game came down to that one play.'' To Err Is Human He paused, reflected on what it all meant and said: ''Well, I'm human.'' He was human enough to throw a fastball on the next pitch to Terry Pendleton, who whistled it to right-center field for a double, three runs and a 5-2 lead for the Cardinals. Advertisement St. Louis still wasn't safe, because the Mets staged their customary ninth-inning stampede: Tim Teufel pinch-hit his second home run of the week and Howard Johnson followed with a home run. But the Cardinals, who lost in the ninth inning the night before, held on to win this one, 7-5. Advertisement It was the first time anybody had defeated Gooden since June 2, when he lost to the Philadelphia Phillies. Since then, he had surmounted a strained right shoulder, started 10 games, won 8 of them and gone to no-decision twice. He didn't lose until this afternoon, when the Cardinals capitalized on his mental lapse and won for the first time at home under Joe Torre, the old Cardinal who became their new manager three days ago. Two Costly Hits ''My shoulder felt fine,'' Gooden said later, ''and I had good stuff. Only two balls were hit hard. But they're the ones that hurt.'' The first one was hit hard by Pedro Guerrero in the fourth inning with the Mets one run in front, and he hit it just after Willie McGee had outrun an infield chop. The next pitch was a low outside fastball, and Guerrero hammered it deep into the seats in left-center field, and the Cardinals took a 2-1 lead. ''You hate to lose the way I did,'' Gooden said later. ''Especially the pitch to Guerrero. It was a low pitch, but that's where he likes it.'' The next one hit hard was the one hit by Pendleton in the home sixth, just after the Mets had tied the score on a double by Darryl Strawberry and the third single of the game by Mackey Sasser. This pitch wasn't really a mistake. But it followed a mistake, the mental mistake on the play that Gooden and everybody else called the key one of the afternoon. Had a Reminder It came with one down in the bottom of the inning after McGee again outran a chop toward second base. Guerrero followed with a single, and McGee zipped to third base. The next hitter was Todd Zeile, the catcher.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ''Doc was reminded before the play,'' said Bud Harrelson, the manager of the Mets, ''that he should look for a double play if the ball came back to him. And it did. Zeile checked his swing and, all of a sudden, the ball's on top of you.'' Advertisement Gooden grabbed the ball but didn't turn and fire it to second base to start the double play, which would have ended the inning. Instead, he carried the ball a few feet toward third as McGee came 20 feet off the bag toward home, then threw it high. McGee slid beneath the tag by Tom O'Malley. ''I saw McGee break, and that distracted me,'' Gooden said. ''I didn't even stop to think I was throwing to the wrong base. I know better, but I just didn't do it.'' So, the Cardinals had the bases loaded with only one down when Pendleton stood in. ''I threw him the pitch where I wanted it,'' Gooden remembered. ''Out over the plate and up. I threw him the same pitch in New York last week and he hit into a double play.'' But this time, Pendleton rocketed the ball to the fence in right-center for a double. Three runs crossed and the Cardinals snatched the lead. ''Yes, the game came down to that play,'' Torre said. ''When you spy somebody breaking, you get distracted. It's a reflex.'' There was more. The Mets scored a run in the seventh off Ken Hill, who beat them in Shea Stadium last week and again in Busch Stadium this week. But Rex Hudler hit a two-run home run off Wally Whitehurst in the eighth, so the Cardinals were leading by 7-3 as they turned to the ninth. And remember, the Mets have won 14 games in their last turn at bat. Tom Niedenfuer got one out, but Teufel pinch-hit a high home run into the left-field balcony. Then Johnson hit two screaming shots down the right-field line, both foul, before rifling a home run a few yards fair. Now it was 7-5, and after Dave Magadan walked, Torre sent an S O S to his bullpen for Frank DiPino, who got Gregg Jefferies on a pop fly and Strawberry on a line drive to right field to end the suspense. ''I suffered in the ninth,'' Torre said. ''A lot.'' We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 5, 1990, on Page 8008001 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL;   Costly Lapse by Gooden.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »