Advertisement  The Charlotte Hornets, mired in last place in the Central Division with a 7-19 record, say the chances of any trades are remote, although the team's owner emphasizes the never-say-never approach. "We are not actively shopping any player, let me stress that," the team owner, George Shinn, told The Winston-Salem Journal. "But we are in a position where we obviously need to get better. All I'm saying is, if there's a way to get better, I want to find it. If there is an opportunity to make a trade out there that would improve our team, I want us to do it." But the Hornets are in a trading bind for at least two reasons. Valuables Aren't for Trade The players who would be the most logical to shop are not necessarily attractive to other teams because of their high salaries. Advertisement And the Hornets have heretofore been unwilling to trade their most valuable possessions: next year's No. 1 draft pick; Larry Johnson, this year's No. 1 pick; Kendall Gill, last season's No. 1 pick. Advertisement The player-personnel director, Dave Twardzik, has concluded that no beneficial trades are remotely possible. But Shinn has told Gene Littles, the former coach, to begin exploring the possibility of trades. "It's like going fishing," Shinn said. "The more lines you drop into the water, the more chances you've got of catching the big fish. We're just dropping another line into the water." Twardzik said he has no problem with Littles entering into trade talks. "Gene has been in this league longer than anyone in the organization and he knows people around the league that Dave might not know," Shinn said. "If Gene can better talk to people and can help make a deal to improve our team, I'm all for it. My objective is to improve the club. I'm not running a popularity contest here." Tough Going  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Littles, who was replaced by Allan Bristow as head coach last summer, said he was happy to be involved again in basketball operations. "I've been in professional basketball since 1969 and the first couple months this season was the first time I've ever really been away from it," Littles said. Littles is facing a tough assignment. Because the Hornets are over the 1991-92 National Basketball Association salary cap, they are limited greatly in what deals they can pursue. If they want to deal with another team over the cap, the only way they can make a trade is to deal a player for another player making within 15 percent of the same salary. They cannot make any two-for-one swaps, or uneven multiple-player swaps. They have greater latitude in dealing with teams under the cap, but only two teams -- the Minnesota Timberwolves and the Miami Heat -- are significantly under the cap. Littles said he is encouraged that the Hornets can work a trade eventually this season. "I think it can happen," he said. "There are always ways to make something happen. The biggest thing is to stay on top of it at all times." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on December 22, 1991, on Page 8008007 of the National edition with the headline: BASKETBALL; Hornets Keep Eye On Trade Market.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »