Advertisement By MICHAEL JANOFSKY For all the coaches, trainers, physiotherapists, psychotherapists and other experts who travel the world in care of this tennis player or that one, few members of the entourage ever attain the profile of the dad whose offspring has suddenly exploded into the public consciousness. For the most part, it has been strictly a father-daughter phenomenon and relatively recent, with men like Jimmy Evert, Roland Jaeger and Peter Graf becoming inextricably linked to the fortunes of their children, usually from a distance no farther than their shadows. One need only watch this year's wonder, the 14-year-old Jennifer Capriati, as she walks from one area at the United States Open to another, trailed by squealing young children demanding an autograph or screaming for eye contact - ''Jennifer, JENNIFERRRRRRR!'' - her legend growing, to know the latest dad of the year. Her Match Is His Like so many other dads before him, Stefano Capriati is a close-by fixture whenever his daughter plays, as she did today, defeating Patricia Hy of Canada rather easily, 6-3, 6-1, to gain the third round. Her match becomes his, as he watches from the stands, helpless to do more than add his voice to thousands of others around him. Advertisement With such a prodigy at hand, seeded 13th here, the dad's life almost ceases to exist in and of itself, particulary when he doubles as chief among several coaches. How could it be otherwise? Advertisement ''Being a parent is a 24-hours-a-day job,'' Stefano Capriati said after his daughter's victory, sitting in the players' lounge with his wife, Denise; their 9-year-old son, Steven; and the family pet Shih Tzu, Bianca, on a red leash under the table. ''You have to get her in the right tournaments, find the right teaching pro. You have to have the knowledge to do it; you cannot make a good player in one hour per day. You cannot have champions without parents.'' Surprises for Father A 55-year-old former movie stuntman from Milan, he has been surprised in his daughter's rise to prominence only by the speed of her ascent and the absence of any adverse effect on her. Not even endorsements worth millions or growing public adulation have made much of a difference, he said, in her life or his. ''She is the same daughter I had two years ago,'' he said. ''More mature, of course. But she still loves tennis, loves her friends, loves music, goes to bed at the same time, wakes up at the same time. We don't change anything.''  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Sometimes changes are necessary, however, to fulfill a daughter's promise. Jim Pierce, once a jewelry dealer in Florida, moved his family to the south of France this year so his 15-year-old daughter Mary, could continue her development. Prompted by a series of disagreements and disappointments over a perceived lack of support for his daughter by United States tennis coaches and officials, Pierce felt his daughter would have a better chance elswhere. His wife's place of birth, Paris, made the switch possible. Mary failed to make the 128-woman draw but advanced to the second round of the doubles today with her partner, Luanne Spadea. ''Never got a cracker from the U.S. tennis federation,'' said Jim Pierce, a garrulous 54-year-old native of North Carlina. ''But I'm too hard-nosed to stop helping my children. When I was young, I ran away from home, and nobody helped me do anything. She has a chance in life. I don't ever want her to look back and wonder why her father didn't help her.'' While Mary Pierce moves along the fringe of the big time, playing as she did on Court 11 before only a handful of observers, far beyond the well-populated stadium and grandstand venues, Capriati has already become one of the tournament's main attractions. So has her father, among fathers, at least, even if he begs not to acknowledge it. 'So Lucky' ''More people want to talk to me now,'' he said. ''But I prefer not to talk about my life. My life is long ago. You know, I am so lucky. As a parent, before your child is born, you always think first for the child to be healthy. 'Then the child is born, she is a healthy baby, then she grows. They become good kids, healthy kids. Many parents have kids who become not the way they want.'' His eyes scanned the room, full with other famous players, their family and friends. ''Yes, I am so lucky.'' All the seeded women who played singles matches yesterday won, including Steffi Graf (1), who beat Rachel McQuillan, 6-1, 6-3; Monica Seles (3), who beat Ros Fairbank, 6-2,6-2; Zina Garrison (4), who beat Angelica Gavaldon, 6-4,6-0; Arantxa Sanchez Vicario (6), who beat Caroline Kuhlman, 6-1, 6-2; Katerina Maleeva (7), who beat Karin Kschwendt, 7-5,6-1, and Conchita Martinez (10), who beat Csilla Bartos, 6-0, 6-4. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on August 31, 1990, on Page A00024 of the National edition with the headline: TENNIS;   Father Watches Capriati Ascend.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »