Advertisement By CLIFTON BROWN and  If last season did not change Mark Jackson's desire to remain with the Knicks, perhaps nothing ever will. He was benched and he was booed. He was mentioned in numerous trade rumors. He was suspended from the Knicks for four days after an argument with Al Bianchi, then the general manager, and Coach John MacLeod. Then this summer, Jackson's brother and a close friend suffered gunshot wounds in a drive-by shooting in Queens. Jackson said that his brother, Harry Jackson, has recovered, but that Jackson's former business manager, Dave Snowden, remains paralyzed from the waist down. So why, after all he has endured in New York, is Jackson so eager to begin another season with the Knicks? Because he believes that Pat Riley, his new coach; Ernie Grunfeld, the team's new player personnel director, and the Knicks' president, Dave Checketts, will treat him fairly. Because despite its hard edge, New York is still Jackson's hometown, the place where his family is, and where he grew up rooting for the Knicks. And Jackson, at age 26, still believes that he can re-establish himself as the Knicks' starting point guard. "This is when I'm at my best, when my back is against the wall," Jackson said today before working out at the Knicks' practice center at the State University here. "I've always wanted to be with the Knicks and I still want to be here. This is proving time, the year when I have to prove myself. That's why I'm here. I want to be ready." A Crowd at Point Guard Advertisement Jackson has been working out regularly for more than a month under the guidance of Greg Brittenham, a strength and conditioning coach. The workouts have left Jackson looking as svelte as he has ever looked, and Brittenham also has Jackson doing a series of agility drills designed to improve Jackson's quickness and lateral movement. Advertisement That Jackson is still with the Knicks is somewhat surprising. From the moment the Knicks drafted Greg Anthony in the first round of the June draft, the point guard position immediately became overcrowded with Jackson, Anthony and Maurice Cheeks vying for playing time. Rumors continued that Jackson would soon be traded. But no deal has been made yet, even though Jackson agreed to restructure the final two years of his contract, lowering his salary for next season from $2,165,000 to $1.2 million. Jackson did not lose any money during the restructuring. Basically, the Knicks paid Jackson about $1 million in deferred money now, instead of between the years 2000 and 2009, as was originally scheduled. But why did Jackson agree to the salary restructuring if he does not wish to be traded? "Because the Knicks' front office has been up front and honest with me at a time when they didn't have to be, and because I wanted to show some leadership," Jackson said. "The team needed more flexibility under the salary cap, and I want to help us win. It wasn't a hard decision. If they had not been up front with me, or if I knew they truly didn't want me in the organization, then maybe I wouldn't have been willing to do them any favors. But I'm really excited about the people running the Knicks now. Dave, Ernie, and Pat Riley have handled everything in a first-class manner.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "I know basketball is still a business, and anything can happen. But I want to be a part of the Knicks, and I feel there's still a very positive future for me here, and that I'll get a fair chance to prove what I can do. " Helping the Less Fortunate Jackson is one of many National Basketball Association players who have agreed to participate in a benefit exhibition game on Sept. 26 at Madison Square Garden. The game, at 7:30 P.M., will benefit the Boys Brotherhood Republic, along with the paraplegic and quadraplegic division of Goldwater Memorial Hospital. Among others who have agreed to play are Chris Mullin, Rolando Blackman, Charles Barkley, Tim Hardaway, Shawn Kemp and Xavier McDaniel. "It's for a great cause, and having so many great players coming to New York should make it even that much better," Jackson said. "When you visit hospitals and see so many people struggling just to live, it makes you realize how fortunate most of us are." Jackson is also thankful that his brother and Snowden are still alive. The shooting occurred in front of the house where Jackson grew up, and he and his wife were on their way there when the incident occurred. The police have not made an arrest. "If my wife and I had arrived five minutes sooner, we may have been there when the shooting took place, too," Jackson said. "When we got there, the ambulance was pulling away. It's a shame. But my brother's O.K. and Dave is still upbeat and he's going through rehabilitation. A lot of people go into a shell when something like that happens to them, but he hasn't." Neither has Jackson. He is still confident and he is still a Knick, even though Checketts will probably hear some trade offers at this weekend's league meetings in Palm Springs, Calif. But as Jackson himself said: "I've been through a lot, but I'm still here. And after last year, no matter what happens, I think the worst is over." We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 12, 1991, on Page B00015 of the National edition with the headline: BASKETBALL; Jackson Looks to Bounce Back as a Knick.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »