Advertisement By RICHARD SANDOMIRMAY 15, 2014
 The announcement Thursday that Major League Baseball has created a succession committee is the latest sign that Commissioner Bud Selig might truly retire next January. The St. Louis Cardinals owner Bill DeWitt Jr., the chairman of the committee, provided a wish list for the qualities he was seeking in the next commissioner — if the next commissioner was someone other than Selig. “A strong C.E.O., a visionary leader who has a passion for the game, who will look to maintain the integrity of the game and continue to grow the great game of baseball,” DeWitt said at a news conference at M.L.B. headquarters in New York. DeWitt, who was asked by Selig to head the search, added that Selig had done “a wonderful job.” Selig, 79, has grown accustomed to the reality that he will end his final term in eight months, he said, and he does not intend to reverse his retirement decision. Advertisement “I know they’ve rehired me four or five times, and people thought it might happen again,” Selig said. “But it’s not.” He would not comment on whether any owners had asked him to stay. The panel will operate on the belief that the 30 teams will be able to identify a comprehensive group of candidates, and it will not, for now, hire an executive recruiting firm. Selig led the commissioner search committee that resulted in the hiring in 1984 of Peter V. Ueberroth to replace Bowie Kuhn, a process that took about 15 months. Reflecting on the difficulties of overseeing that search, Selig said, “I wondered what I’d done wrong to deserve that job.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Another search committee in 1994 was believed to be ready to recommend Arnold R. Weber, the president of Northwestern University, to fill the commissioner’s position left empty by the ouster of Fay Vincent in September 1992. But a group of 11 teams united to say they would not vote on a new commissioner until a new collective bargaining agreement was reached with players. As the chairman of baseball’s executive council, Selig, then the Milwaukee Brewers’ owner, had become acting commissioner soon after Vincent was forced out. Advertisement Yet another search committee, established in early 1997, deliberated for 18 months and considered hundreds of candidates. Selig, who had been saying he did not want the job permanently, was nonetheless elected unanimously. He spoke in 2003 of retiring three years later. But he has endured for a generation. DeWitt said the committee has already met twice and would solicit Selig’s opinion about his own preferred successor. Selig is believed to favor Rob Manfred, baseball’s chief operating officer. The other members of the committee are Dick Monfort, owner of the Colorado Rockies; David Montgomery, general partner of the Philadelphia Phillies; Arte Moreno, owner of the Los Angeles Angels; Robert Nutting, chairman of the Pittsburgh Pirates; Jim Pohlad, chief executive of the Minnesota Twins; and the Chicago White Sox owner Jerry Reinsdorf, a longtime baseball power broker. DeWitt would not provide a timeline for his committee to finish its work, other than to say that he respected Selig’s desire to retire from baseball when his term ends Jan. 24. A version of this article appears in print on May 16, 2014, on Page B14 of the New York edition with the headline: Committee Beginning Search for Commissioner’s Successor.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »