Advertisement By BECKLEY MASONMAY 9, 2014
 After the Miami Heat blew them out of Game 1, the Brooklyn Nets rebounded with a focused, but ill-fated, performance in Game 2 on Thursday night. As has been the case many times, even the right game plan, executed well, was not enough to beat a team as good as the Heat, the two-time defending N.B.A. champions. The Nets managed Thursday to correct most of the errors that left them vulnerable to a parade of layups in Game 1, in which the Heat outscored them by 24 points in the paint. In Game 2, the Heat scored 34 points in the paint, to the Nets’ 32, and found only one bucket on a cut to the rim, compared with seven in Game 1, according to the Synergy Sports. The Nets kept LeBron James from accumulating too many easy points at the rim and free throw line, and did a good job slowing down Dwyane Wade, who scored 14 points. But while the Nets have contained the Heat, they have not been able to take them out of their game, as they did in the regular season. The Heat are prepared, composed and show no signs of breaking stride after their sixth consecutive playoff win this year, and eighth over all. There were more than a few heartening moments for the Nets in Game 2, most notably Mirza Teletovic’s barrage of 3-pointers. Teletovic set a franchise playoff record with six 3-pointers, all off opportunities manufactured by snappy ball movement. Amazingly, the Nets also won the rebounding battle despite their smaller lineup. It was precisely the type of unexpected performance that could propel an underdog to a vital road victory, but the Nets failed to capitalize. Advertisement While Teletovic cooked from behind the arc, point guard Deron Williams could not get a single shot to drop, finishing 0 for 9. Williams went scoreless in Game 2, and has yet to shoot a free throw in two games against Miami after averaging nearly six per game in the first round. For a player of his stature, Williams rarely receives the benefit of the doubt from referees, and he expressed surprise that a few of his drives did not pay off with trips to the line in Game 2. Though Williams has a case, his explosiveness looks dampened, perhaps because of his oft-injured ankles, which were treated with an injection between Games 6 and 7 of the first round. Advertisement Facing the Heat’s speedy point guards, Williams has not been able to turn the corner on pick-and-rolls or isolations, and when he does get inside, the Heat are meeting him at the rim, where Williams’s inability to elevate because of his nagging ankle problems makes it difficult to finish cleanly. The Heat’s aggressive defense is designed to push point guards away from the rim on pick-and-rolls, and Brooklyn likes to use Williams as a decoy to draw the defense away from the Nets’ shooters. One could cite Teletovic’s performance and argue that Williams’s approach worked in Game 2, and, indeed, Williams made a number of excellent passes. But the Nets will need more raw production from Williams because they cannot count on Joe Johnson to carry them as he did against the Toronto Raptors. Like the Nets, the Heat do not mind switching on defense. Usually, that is exactly what Johnson wants: he forces a mismatch, then forces his way to the paint. The Raptors never found a way to handle Johnson’s combination of size and skill, but the Heat have a stable of capable defenders who, though unable to completely lock down Johnson, can make life difficult for him without requiring the assistance of a second defender. Shane Battier is the primary defender on Johnson, and unlike DeMar DeRozan of the Raptors, he has the strength and guile in the post to deter Johnson from those devastating drives that ended in so many deft Johnson floaters in Round 1. Even without strong games from Williams and Johnson, the Nets were able to make it interesting on the strength of Coach Jason Kidd’s guerrilla tactics. Playing Teletovic at center in the fourth quarter was the kind of risk the Nets must take to get the Heat out of their rhythm. The Heat were just too poised, and too good, when it mattered most. With the game still in reach and three and half minutes to play, the Heat extended a possession three times with offensive rebounds, punctuating the 100-second trip with a layup from James. Without a single player taller than 6-foot-8 on the court, the Nets could not keep the more athletic Heat from the ball. Finally, the Heat ran one of their favorite late-game plays, a pick-and-roll between Wade and James, and James slipped to the rim for an uncontested layup, giving the Heat a 10-point lead with just under two minutes to play. In the regular season, the Nets’ unconventional style made the Heat uncomfortable. It forced the Heat into ugly turnovers and lazy possessions. In two playoff games, the Heat have been careful with the ball, and conscious of making sure they keep the ball moving to exploit mismatches. The Nets have not exhausted every avenue to victory: A big game from Williams or Johnson would go a long way to a win at home. But through two games, it is clear that the Heat have a different gear in the playoffs, one the Nets cannot match. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »