Advertisement By MURRAY CHASS The American League preview was reported and written by Murray Chass. Teams are listed in the order of predicted finish, with the Yankees picked for second in the East. Not that the Yankees are so improved over the team that finished one and a half games in front of sixth last year, but someone has to finish second. If, on the other hand, Dave Winfield has problems rediscovering his potent bat, second may be too lofty a goal to attain. Toronto Blue Jays So maybe the Blue Jays aren't a perfect team, at least not in the way Oakland has been the past two seasons, but they clearly seem to be the class of a division that has deteriorated like an unattended garden. The team's strengths, in relation to the rest of the division, are its pitching staff and a nucleus of good hitters, such as George Bell, Fred McGriff and Tony Fernandez. They have areas, however, that cannot be considered solid. Advertisement For example, Mookie Wilson, at the age of 34, may not hold up under everyday play in center field. Junior Felix and Glenallen Hill, who between them have one year of major league experience, may not produce as the right-field platoon. Pat Borders and Greg Myers, the young catchers, may not find life behind the plate comforting. John Olerud, the rookie designated hitter, may not be ready to play in the majors after six games of professional experience. Advertisement But then maybe all or most of those players will perform capably, and the Blue Jays can fly away from the noncontenders. Boston Red Sox This is a team of contrasts. The Red Sox have a corps of well established players and they have some areas where the questions are major. No one can question Wade Boggs, Mike Greenwell, Dwight Evans (unless his back limits him), Marty Barrett, Jody Reed, Roger Clemens and Jeff Reardon. Maybe not even Tony Pena, the new catcher, will pose a problem if Fenway Park revives him as a hitter. But what about first base, where a reclamation project, Billy Jo Robidoux, and Carlos Quintana, who has less than a year in the majors, could share time (maybe even Bill Buckner, a figure out of Boston's star-crossed past)? What about the starting rotation, which not even Shane Rawley could make but people named Mike Rochford and Dana Kiecker might? The Red Sox, even with Reardon around as the bullpen closer, have held onto Lee Smith, but they may have to trade him for a starter. If Evans, a steady and inspirational player, is plagued by his back, Kevin Romine and Randy Kutcher will likely share right field. Baltimore Orioles The fairy tale might have ended on the final weekend of last season, when the Orioles lost the series and the division championship to Toronto. The Orioles say not, but they had the kind of year that they just might not be able to approach this time around. Advertisement They ran with a band of young pitchers and went well beyond the limit that should have existed for them. The pitchers, to be sure, now have a year's additional experience; that fact, however, doesn't necessarily mean they will be better or even as effective.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Ben McDonald, perhaps the successor to Ron Guidry as Louisiana Lightning, appeared set to add his youth to the rotation, but he will be delayed because of a strained muscle in his side. Offensively, the Orioles are eager to learn if Mickey Tettleton can match the kind of performance that produced a career-high 26 home runs. They also need strong hitting from their collection of outfielders - Phil Bradley, Steve Finley, Mike Devereaux and Joe Orsulak. Milwaukee Brewers Bud Selig, the Brewers' owner, who is chairman of the owners' labor committee, should call another lockout. That may be the only way his team could have time to be ready for the season. The Brewers have suffered a relentless siege of injuries. The latest occurred three days ago when Greg Brock, the first baseman, pulled a hamstring. That injury, however, wasn't so bad considering that his infield colleagues, Paul Molitor, Bill Spiers and Jim Gantner, are all on the disabled list, Molitor at the start of the season for the second consecutive year. Gary Sheffield, who could substitute at second or third, is also on the injured list, though not on the disabled list. Manager Tom Trebelhorn is left with a quandary no other manager envies. In some fashion, Dale Sveum, who himself is returning from an assortment of injuries; Gus Polidor and Edgar Diaz will play short and third. B. J. Surhoff, one of the platooning catchers could also play third. The circumstances are not conducive to contending for the division championship. The Brewers signed Dave Parker as a free agent, thinking his leadership could add a needed element to the team's efforts. But how can Parker lead a bunch of guys on crutches and in whirpools? Cleveland Indians When the Cleveland Stadium vendors scream Tuesday that ''you can't tell the players without a scorecard,'' it won't just be a sales pitch. The Indians have a new manager and they could have six new players in the starting lineup. The wholesale shuffle won't necessarily make the Indians a better, more likely to contend team, but at least it will keep the fans' interest until they learn who all the newcomers are. Advertisement Keith Hernandez and Sandy Alomar Jr. should be the most important newcomers. Hernandez is coming off two successive injury-interrupted seasons, but the Indians are counting on him to contribute some timely hits and leadership on a directionless team. Alomar is the rookie catcher everyone has been hearing about for two years, and he will finally get his chance to show if the scouting reports are deserved. Pitching was the team's strength last year, and it better be this year, too, because Joe Carter, the Indians' most dangerous hitter, is gone. He was the price Cleveland had to pay for Alomar. Detroit Tigers The Tigers can't be as bad as they were last year. If Tom Monaghan's pizza were that bad, Domino's would be out of business. They were so bad that the Tigers were jolted out of their so-called policy not to sign free agents. They gobbled up Cecil Fielder, Lloyd Moseby and Tony Phillips, uncharacteristically paying out huge sums of money, but at least they have three positions filled that otherwise might have gone vacant. (That would have left the Tigers with only six men on the field, but could they have fared any worse than they did with nine players last season?) The Tiger mainstays Sparky Anderson, Lou Whitaker, Alan Trammell and Jack Morris probably deserve better, but they will have to endure another difficult season. Compounding the problem, the Tigers have little talent in their minor league system. We are continually improving the quality of our text archives. Please send feedback, error reports,
        and suggestions to archive_feedback@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on April 8, 1990, on Page 8008009 of the National edition with the headline: BASEBALL '90;   A.L. East: Imperfect Blue Jays Best in a Weak Division.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 Go to Home Page »