Advertisement By BENJAMIN HOFFMANMAY 17, 2014
 Two left legs may decide this matchup of the best teams in the Western Conference. For the San Antonio Spurs, a wily group of veterans who held on to capture their third No. 1 seed in four seasons, the left hamstring of Tony Parker could be a key to success. Parker, the veteran point guard, has ceded some of his overall importance to Kawhi Leonard, but Parker is still San Antonio’s leading scorer in the playoffs and a huge part of what makes the team so successful. Thus far, he has said that the strain is not severe and that he will be able to play. The news has been worse for Serge Ibaka and the Oklahoma City Thunder. A defensive whiz, Ibaka has a Grade 2 strain of his left calf and is expected to be out for the remainder of the playoffs. Losing Ibaka — who will most likely be replaced in the lineup by Nick Collison — is a crushing blow. Before Ibaka’s injury, the Thunder appeared poised to get past the aging Spurs. They have won 10 of their last 12 games against San Antonio, and with Kevin Durant regularly reminding everyone why he was named most valuable player, it was easy to start looking ahead to an N.B.A. finals of Durant versus LeBron James. But the Spurs, perhaps more than any other team in recent years, are able to find a team’s weakness and exploit it. With the path to the basket suddenly far more clear, San Antonio should be able to handle the younger Thunder roster. Advertisement At some point, Tim Duncan will decide to retire and the Spurs will find out if their system is what has made the team so successful, or if having Duncan is a system in and of itself. But for at least one more year, they should be back in the finals, trying to win their quiet superstar his fifth championship. KEY PLAYER Russell Westbrook can be infuriating one night and exhilarating the next. He can even manage the transition between plays on occasion. But there is no question that he is a force when things are going right. The problems, however, seem to mount quickly when things go wrong, and Coach Gregg Popovich of the Spurs has been making things go wrong for opposing players for more than a decade. If the Spurs can get in Westbrook’s head, then one of Oklahoma City’s biggest assets could suddenly be its worst enemy. Advertisement SEASON SERIES Oklahoma City swept San Antonio, 4-0. PICK San Antonio in five games. A version of this article appears in print on May 18, 2014, on Page SP6 of the New York edition with the headline: Injuries to Key Players Loom Over Series.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »