Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 15, 2014
 A month ago, Drew Gooden’s home court was at an LA Fitness facility a few miles outside Washington. Now he’s squarely in the city and helping the Washington Wizards’ playoff drive. John Wall scored 33 points, Gooden got 11 of his 21 in the final quarter, and the Wizards overcame a 10-point, fourth-quarter deficit for a 101-94 win over the visiting Nets on Saturday night. “You guys joke about me being old, but I’m still Drew Gooden,” Gooden, 32, said. “And that’s what I do. Once I see a couple going in, I feel like I can’t miss. Tonight, the ball was definitely on my side, and it dropped for me tonight.” A 3-pointer by Gooden broke a 94-94 tie with 2 minutes 37 seconds left. Trevor Ariza then scored off an offensive rebound with 44 seconds left, and Wall capped it with dunk. Advertisement Washington completed a sweep of the season series (3-0) and moved ahead of the Nets for fifth place in the Eastern Conference. Advertisement The game between two teams that could meet in the postseason had a playoff atmosphere in front of the Wizards’ third sellout crowd of the season. “The longer we go here, the more games are going to feel like that,” Wizards Coach Randy Wittman said. “I thought the fans in the building were electric all night. Our guys played off of that, and it was an intense game, there is no question about that.” With the starting center-forward Nene sidelined (sprained left knee), the Wizards signed Gooden — now in his 11th N.B.A. season — to a 10-day contract on Feb. 26 and another on March 8. Soon, they will have to decide whether to keep him for the remainder of the season. Washington’s Bradley Beal, who sprained an ankle in Friday night’s overtime win at Orlando, started and added 15 points. The Nets, who went the final 6:22 without a field goal, were led by Marcus Thornton’s 19 points. Joe Johnson added 16, and Paul Pierce had 15. “We got great looks, it just didn’t go down,” Nets Coach Jason Kidd said. “We executed plays — I think we might have gotten a little frustrated on the defensive end, when we were giving up shots, and that led to the carry-over on the offensive end.” Thornton opened the fourth quarter with a 3-pointer that gave the Nets an 82-72 lead. The Wizards went on a 15-4 run sparked by Gooden (8 of 11 from the field) and Al Harrington.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Harrington started things off when he scored 4 points and picked up a steal that led to a basket by Beal. Advertisement Then, with the Wizards trailing by 3, Gooden hit a layup and then a jumper from the wing that gave Washington an 87-86 lead, its first of the half. “I thought, in the fourth quarter, we got down and defended,” Wittman said. “We didn’t take any shortcuts.” NETS KEEP COLLINS Jason Collins has been signed for the rest of the season by the Nets. Collins, the N.B.A.’s first openly gay player, had finished his second 10-day contract, which meant the Nets had to sign him for the remainder of the season if they wanted to keep him. PACERS 112, PISTONS 104 Paul George scored 30 points, and visiting Indiana rallied from a 25-point second-quarter deficit to beat Detroit in overtime. Evan Turner added 20 points for the Pacers, and David West scored 6 of his 15 points in overtime. Josh Smith scored 23 points for the Pistons. BULLS 94, KINGS 87 Joakim Noah had 23 points and 11 rebounds, Taj Gibson scored 7 of his 19 points in the fourth quarter, and host Chicago held off Sacramento. Isaiah Thomas led the Kings with 26 points. GRIZZLIES 103, 76ERS 77 Mike Conley scored 19 points and Zach Randolph had 14 to lead Memphis to a win over host Philadelphia, sending the 76ers to a franchise-tying 20th straight loss. Michael Carter-Williams led the Sixers with 23 points, and Thaddeus Young had 20. HAWKS 97, NUGGETS 92 Paul Millsap had 24 points and 11 rebounds, Jeff Teague added 15 points and 10 assists, and Atlanta rallied for its third straight win by defeating visiting Denver. Kenneth Faried finished with 25 points, and Wilson Chandler scored 12 for the Nuggets. A version of this article appears in print on March 16, 2014, on Page SP2 of the New York edition with the headline: Late Charge by Wizards’ Gooden Dooms Nets.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »