Advertisement 
Trilobites  By                     
 NICHOLAS ST. FLEUR
 
AUG. 26, 2016
 Hello, Octobot. This squishy eight-armed machine is the world’s first fully autonomous soft-bodied robot. Researchers at Harvard University created the octopus by three-dimensional printing, using silicone gel, which gives it its flexible, rubbery texture. On Wednesday, they unveiled their adorable step toward the robot uprising in the journal Nature. The scientists said in their paper that their creation could be a foundation for the future of soft-bodied robots. Octobot is similar to other soft robots who mimic the movements of animals, such as starfish, squids and octopuses. But while many of those were tethered to a power source, the octobot can move free. It’s cordless. Also, unlike other soft-bodied robots, which typically have batteries, wires or circuit boards, the octobot has no rigid parts in its gummy body. Instead, chemicals course through its veins to give it power. Every week, we’ll bring you stories that capture the wonders of the human body, nature and the cosmos. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Liquid hydrogen peroxide is its fuel, and when it reacts with a platinum catalyst in the cephalopod’s core, it creates a gas that inflates the creature’s limbs, like a balloon. Using the chemical reaction, the octobot can wriggle its arms. It starts by lifting four of its arms while lowering its other four, and then reversing the motion. The octobot will continue cycling through its dance until it runs out of fuel, which usually takes four to eight minutes. The Octobot also has its own preservation code. While moving, it avoids exploding by releasing its excess gas through vent orifices. In other words, it farts. A version of this article appears in print on August 30, 2016, on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: Soft Power: Octobot: Squishy, Adorable and Revolutionary.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »