Advertisement By DANA JENNINGSMAY 13, 2013
 Nature photography — stills and live action — is a cultural staple, like Honest Abe Lincoln, celebrity self-immolation and the myth that Shakespeare didn’t write his own plays. But why? Well, nature pictures sate our base animal curiosity, the same kind of poking around that puts a dog at the wrong end of a skunk. And ideally, they might make us pause in our mindless pursuit and slaughter of our fellow creatures. Given that we’re a primal outdoors animal — both predator and prey — that has become a domesticated indoors animal, the best nature photography also gives us a heartbreaking window onto what we’ve lost. And, finally, as in the new book “Serpentine,” by Mark Laita (Abrams, $50), the images shock us out of our modern human complacency and arrogance, remind us that all of us, human and nonhuman, are just trying to get by on this lonely planet. In his prologue Mr. Laita, whose last book was “Sea,” tries to articulate what it is about snakes that spurred him to take on this project: “Attraction and repulsion. Passivity and aggression. Allure and danger. These extreme dichotomies, along with the age-old symbolism connected with snakes, are what first inspired me to produce this series.” Advertisement With some 100 beauty shots showing off snakes from every continent except Antarctica, this book is a hymn to raucous profusion. There are mambas and cobras here, kings and kraits, boas and rattlers, pythons and vipers — and much more.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. And, oh, those names, which coil deliciously on the tongue: the blue beauty ratsnake and the hundred-pace snake, the rough-scaled death adder and the black-headed bushmaster. Advertisement All of them are stark and stunning against a black background — which suggests a squirmy, slithery journey to some ancient subconscious — from the blunt white and black of the mussurana of Central and South America to the Times Square neon of the blue Malaysian coral snake. I couldn’t take my eyes off them, from the spade-shaped wedge of head to the tapered tail, and all that sinuous muscle in between. These predatory geometries made me want to stroke the snake-laden pages. As Mr. Laita writes: “Their beauty heightens the danger. The danger amplifies their beauty.” And when we focus on their sheer, alien otherness, we feel more human — as Mr. Laita acknowledges at the end of “Serpentine,” when he quotes the poet Rainer Maria Rilke: “Perhaps everything that frightens us is, in its deepest essence, something helpless that needs our love.” An earlier version of a picture caption with this article misidentified, using information from the book’s publisher, the species of snake that is shown suffocating an alligator. It is a boa constrictor, not a reticulated python.  A version of this review appears in print on May 14, 2013, on Page D8 of the New York edition with the headline: Twisting And Turning.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »