Advertisement By DENISE GRADYOCT. 31, 2011
 Was Steve Jobs a smart guy who made a stupid decision when it came to his health? It might seem so, from the broad outlines of what he did in 2003 when a CT scan and other tests found a cancerous tumor in his pancreas. Doctors urged him to have an operation to remove the tumor, but Mr. Jobs put it off and instead tried a vegan diet, juices, herbs, acupuncture and other alternative remedies. Nine months later, the tumor had grown. Only then did he agree to surgery, during which his doctors found that the cancer had spread to his liver, according to the new biography by Walter Isaacson. Cancer eventually killed him. The sequence of events has given rise to news articles and blogs based on 20/20 hindsight, speculating that if only Mr. Jobs had had the surgery right away, doctors could have caught the cancer early, before it spread, and saved him. But there is no way in this life to know what might have been — not in politics, baseball, romance or the stock market, and certainly not in sickness and health. Mr. Jobs’s wish to avoid or delay surgery was not unusual. And given the type of tumor he had and the way it was found, his decision to wait may not have been as ill considered as it seems at first blush. Advertisement His wife, Laurene Powell Jobs, declined requests for an interview and for permission to speak to Mr. Jobs’s doctors. But she did allow one of them to comment briefly: Dr. Dean Ornish, a friend of Mr. Jobs who is also a well-known advocate for using diet and lifestyle changes to treat and prevent heart disease. Advertisement Dr. Ornish said that when the diagnosis was first made, he advised Mr. Jobs to have the surgery. But in an e-mail message, he added: “Steve was a very thoughtful person. In deciding whether or not to have major surgery, and when, he spent a few months consulting with a number of physicians and scientists worldwide as well as his team of superb physicians. It was his decision to do this. “This type of surgery is a big deal and not to be taken lightly. He had surgery when he decided it was what he wanted to do. Nobody could have been more thoughtful and intelligent about how he went about this. “No one can say whether or not having surgery earlier would have made any difference because of the possibility of micrometastases.” Micrometastases are the tiny cancers that form in various organs when a tumor starts to spread and seed itself around the body. Dr. Ornish’s comment means that in theory, Mr. Jobs’s tumor could already have spread invisibly to his liver by the time it was first diagnosed. If it had, operating earlier probably would not have made a difference. Dr. Edward M. Wolin, co-director of the carcinoid and neuroendocrine tumor program at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, said that among patients with the kind of cancer Mr. Jobs had, “when they are first found on a scan, about 60 percent of the time it’s already metastasized to the liver.” Another expert, Dr. Steven K. Libutti, said that based on his reading of the new biography, it seemed likely that Mr. Jobs’s tumor had spread by the time it was found, and the delay in surgery probably did no harm. Dr. Libutti is director of the Montefiore Einstein Center for Cancer Care in New York and of its neuroendocrine tumor program. (Neither Dr. Wolin nor Dr. Libutti treated Mr. Jobs or knew the details of his illness.) The tumor was a rare type. The usual type (which killed the actor Patrick Swayze) is notorious for its high death rate and rapid progression: After five years, only 5 percent of patients are still alive. Advertisement But Mr. Jobs had another disease: a neuroendocrine tumor, meaning that the cancer affected the cells that make hormones like insulin. Neuroendocrine tumors account for only about 3 percent of the 44,000 cases of pancreatic cancer each year in the United States.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Neuroendocrine tumors are much less deadly than the usual type of pancreatic cancer. Some can be cured. Patients’ five-year survival is much higher, 50 to 60 percent, and many live 10 years or more, Dr. Libutti said. In Mr. Jobs’s case, the tumor was discovered almost by accident, when he had a CT scan for something else. The increasing use of CT scans and the improving clarity of the images mean that more and more tumors too small to cause symptoms are being noticed incidentally in various organs, including the pancreas. Deciding what to do about these growths, and whether it is ever safe just to watch them, is something that “the field is wrestling with now,” Dr. Libutti said. Most doctors would advocate removing a neuroendocrine tumor of more than two centimeters (about three-quarters of an inch), Dr. Libutti said, though he said size alone was not a foolproof gauge. Small tumors can be vicious, big ones innocuous. A biopsy can give clues to how dangerous a tumor is. (Information about the size of Mr. Jobs’s tumor has not been made public.) “The real challenge for us with better CT scans and incidental findings is if you get a small one-centimeter tumor in the pancreas, do they all have to be removed right away, or can you just observe them?” Dr. Libutti said. “I don’t think anybody has an absolutely comforting and soul-satisfying answer right now.” Dr. Wolin said he recommended removing any neuroendocrine tumor in the pancreas within a few months of the diagnosis. “If you find it early, that’s the time to do it,” he said. “Just because it has a really good prognosis and it’s small doesn’t mean you should ignore it.” Some doctors opt to wait if there is uncertainty and the surgery would be extensive, Dr. Libutti said. The pancreas has a head and a tail, and tumors in the head require more arduous surgery. Mr. Jobs ultimately had a type of operation that normally involves the head of the pancreas. Dr. Libutti said that when a tumor is discovered incidentally, by a scan for a symptom like back pain, patients sometimes oppose surgery — arguing that without the scan the tumor never would have been found, and maybe it will never bother them. “It’s not magical thinking,” he said. “In some ways it’s common sense. We can’t say ‘Yes, it absolutely will kill you, and if we take it out, it won’t kill you.’ ” Advertisement But if the tumor is large, he said, he will try to talk the patient into removing it. “Some physicians are more comfortable saying ‘Take them out; at least we’ve done everything we could,’ ” Dr. Libutti said. “Others say, ‘What if you’re taking it out for no reason, and there are complications, even though complications are rare?’ That’s why guys like me lose our hair.” A version of this article appears in print on November 1, 2011, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: A Tumor Is No Clearer In Hindsight.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »