Advertisement 
Books  By                     
ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D.

AUG. 8, 2016
 All hospitals deliver an endless loop of drama. In America’s great public hospitals, the show is nothing short of operatic. There have been gruesome abuses: Staff members at New Orleans’s old Charity Hospital were indicted in the 1970s for running prostitution rings on the wards. There have also been stunning triumphs: The nation’s first blood bank was established at Chicago’s Cook County Hospital in 1937. There has always been a background chorus of surprised patients lauding the care received in these infamous places. Most chroniclers confine themselves to the human interest stories, reasoning that the funding of these hospitals is unlikely to be as gripping. It turns out that’s not necessarily the case, certainly not in this first strange decade of reformed health care, as the federal government drapes the nation in a health safety net full of holes. Where does that leave the venerable hospitals of last resort, the nets beneath the net? Mike King probes this question in “A Spirit of Charity: Restoring the Bond Between America and Its Public Hospitals.” His decades of experience as an Atlanta-based journalist covering health care in the South have versed him well in the doublespeak of health care financing for America’s poor. The fact that even such an experienced observer has some difficulty describing the terrain speaks for itself: His is a moving, ridiculously complicated target. (Read an excerpt here.) Advertisement Still, his outrage on behalf of our continuously threatened public hospitals should be immensely gratifying to all of their fans. Mr. King’s story concentrates on Atlanta’s Grady Hospital, which opened its doors in 1892 with a combination of municipal and private funding. Over the decades, Grady has never stopped scrambling for dollars, its mandate complicated by strictly segregated wards that were not dismantled until 1964. Advertisement Back then, Grady was a bizarre amalgam of charity and racial hatred. Now the hospital is different in all respects, bolstered by its world-class academic programs and its ongoing social mission. But its financing still relies on a hodgepodge of funds grudgingly contributed and newly withheld by every echelon of government, as the states and the feds continue to toss the big burdens of health care back and forth like sputtering firecrackers. The Affordable Care Act specifically excludes noncitizens from its benefits, leaving public hospitals like Grady as the sole care providers for both foreign transients and illegal residents. At the same time, new increases in reimbursements for some services and in the number of insured people under the health care law have made the private sector take intense interest in caring for previously unattractive customers. In Mr. King’s eyes, though, the biggest problem is that many states in the South, including Georgia, have chosen to forgo the expansion of Medicaid, the largely state-run health insurance for the poor, under the Affordable Care Act. Thus, working Atlanta residents who make too little for private insurance and too much for Medicaid under the old guidelines tumble right through the health care act’s safety net and land at Grady, a hospital of last resort. But Grady now has big holes in its own safety net. For instance, Mr. King details how it stopped providing outpatient kidney dialysis in 2009, outsourcing this potentially profitable, Medicare-reimbursed procedure to private companies. But those companies do not serve uninsured patients, and throw them directly back to Grady’s emergency room, where costly emergency dialysis must be provided. Every week, we’ll bring you stories that capture the wonders of the human body, nature and the cosmos. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Grady handles about 3,500 trauma cases a year in a hugely expensive Level 1 center equipped to handle all injuries. But for-profit health care is now getting into the trauma business, specifically seeking victims of so-called blunt trauma, often caused by falls or car accidents, as opposed to victims of penetrating trauma caused by knives and guns. Blunt trauma victims are often insured; penetrating trauma victims often not. Advertisement About half the estimated 5,000 homeless people in Atlanta are thought to be mentally ill or addicted, Mr. King writes. Had Georgia agreed to Medicaid expansion, many would now be insured. Instead they receive outpatient care at charity clinics, and when they are admitted, Grady pays the bill. Similarly, about 60 percent of patients in Grady’s AIDS clinic live below the poverty level; had the state expanded Medicaid, an estimated half of them would be insured. Instead, they and the hospital must rely on increasingly thin federal AIDS dollars. Mr. King tells a slightly garbled, herky jerky story with intermittent excursions to events at other large public hospitals in the South and Midwest, including Cook County, Miami’s Jackson Memorial and Charity, now closed. These digressions just muddy the narrative waters with more anecdotes leading to a common conclusion: It seems nobody wants to pay for health care in this country — not even those specifically charged to do so — unless they can make a buck. Well, it’s just one more verse in our sad, old health care song. I had hoped Mr. King might step back a little and try to pinpoint exactly why it is that so many Americans (rich, poor, doctor, patient) are such fierce partisans of our public hospitals, given that other hospitals must struggle hard to inspire the same degree of brand loyalty. Mr. King does not venture a guess, so I will do it for him. All the addictive drama aside, I bet it’s because within public hospital walls lie the few square miles in this country where health care is an unquestioned right, not a grudgingly granted privilege. It’s a good feeling, to be in those spaces. We should create more of them. A version of this article appears in print on August 9, 2016, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: America’s Safety Nets Are Full of Holes.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »