Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Egg and Herb Salad By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Provençal Greens Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes healthy Endive Salad With Blue Cheese Dressing By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy Stuffed Peppers With Red Rice, Chard and Feta By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Frittata With Red Peppers and Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour easy Seared Belgian Endive With Walnut Gremolata By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Pesto-Stuffed Portobello Burgers By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus marinating  Wheat Berries With Sesame, Soy Sauce and Scallions By Mark Bittman 45 minutes healthy Yogurt or Buttermilk Soup With Toasted Barley By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours 30 minutes healthy Wheat Berry and Tomato Salad By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours 30 minutes healthy Peach Buttermilk Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus at least 1 hour's refrigeration healthy Quick Walnut Bread By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Egg and Herb Salad By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Provençal Greens Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes healthy Endive Salad With Blue Cheese Dressing By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy Stuffed Peppers With Red Rice, Chard and Feta By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Frittata With Red Peppers and Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour easy Seared Belgian Endive With Walnut Gremolata By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Pesto-Stuffed Portobello Burgers By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus marinating  Wheat Berries With Sesame, Soy Sauce and Scallions By Mark Bittman 45 minutes healthy Yogurt or Buttermilk Soup With Toasted Barley By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours 30 minutes healthy Wheat Berry and Tomato Salad By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours 30 minutes healthy Peach Buttermilk Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus at least 1 hour's refrigeration healthy Quick Walnut Bread By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Egg and Herb Salad By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Provençal Greens Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   This is the kind of meal I could eat every day for lunch and never tire of. Cold summer soups welcome the addition of chewy whole grains. On a hot day in early summer, a soup like this one is both refreshing and substantial.  
Featured in: 
New Ways To Use ‘Ancient’ Grains. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Kosher,
                    Low Cholesterol,
                    Halal,
                    Buttermilk,
                    Wheat Berry,
                    Yogurt
 By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 3/4 hours By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour, plus 4 hours' marinating By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus at least 5 hours' chilling By Pierre Franey 20 minutes By Mark Bittman 30 minutes By The New York Times 50 minutes By Tejal Rao 3 hours; 30 minutes active Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.