Advertisement SEPT. 24, 2012
 To the Editor: Re “Forest Fire Research Questions the Wisdom of Prescribed Burns” (Sept. 18): As a conservationist and former wildland firefighter trained in the Rocky Mountain West, I know the importance of fire to the health of many of America’s forests. I also lament the loss of lives and property to fires that could not be controlled. Our current reality is extreme: Fires are destroying homes, water supplies and valuable timber, and releasing carbon detrimental to human and wildlife health into the atmosphere. Many species thrive in extremely burned habitat, and many species, like the Ponderosa pine, are dependent upon frequent low-intensity fires. Too often today, we either see not enough fires or raging megafires, both of which threaten forests, life and property. Fire can be incredibly destructive. It is also one of the most important management tools we have. That is the paradox of fire. Bill Ulfelder Manhattan   The writer is executive director of the Nature Conservancy in New York. To the Editor: The issue is not so much whether it is ecologically beneficial to let fires run their course, but whether it is feasible to do so while having people and their homes at stake. Letting big fires run wild is a difficult consideration for Americans who live close to the forest and other wild land areas. Do they let biodiversity flourish, all the while contemplating the possibility of these same “desired” fires burning down their homes and everything they have worked for? Even if prescribed burning is not the desired policy to stimulate biodiversity for some ecologists, it is the option that we have now to let people enjoy these forests while stimulating ecological health. Ana Paola Diaz Syracuse A version of this letter appears in print on September 25, 2012, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: Controlling Wildfires.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »