Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

NOV. 19, 2012
 It’s always the desserts that tip the balance at Thanksgiving. We’re pacing ourselves, full but not too full, until we get to those irresistible pies. I love them as much as anybody, but I thought I’d work on some pielike desserts this week that have the fillings we love without as much butter in the crust. Galettes, phyllo-wrapped strudel and clafoutis all fit the bill. I filled layers of phyllo with a mixture of caramelized chopped apples, pears, mixed dried fruit and slivered almonds and rolled it up into two beautiful strudels, one of which I froze and will pull out and bake on Thanksgiving. Galettes are more rustic than pies, but they’ll look beautiful on any Thanksgiving buffet, and judging from the way they went over in my house when I was testing the recipes, the apple and the pear and cranberry galettes will please a crowd. A clafoutis is one of the easiest impressive desserts that you can make; it looks a bit like a pie, but there’s no crust. Pears are the fruit to use at this time of year. Finally, I pondered what to do with pumpkin. I settled on a mousse, which I piped into glasses and topped with ground hazelnuts. There’s some whipped cream and some sugar required, and I worried that this might bring the calorie count over the top, but in the end the mousse, which has no flour in it, was the lowest-calorie dessert of the week. Pumpkin Caramel Mousse in a Glass This is inspired by a recipe by Sherry Yard, a pastry chef who uses her version as a mousse layer in an elaborate pumpkin pie. I wanted to do something with pumpkin that didn’t involve a crust, so I made a mousse and piped it into small glasses, then sprinkled ground toasted hazelnuts on top. It’s a bit of a splurge, but not compared with most Thanksgiving desserts. 1/2 cup (125 grams) heavy cream 2 tablespoons (25 grams) brown sugar 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1/4 teaspoon ground ginger Advertisement 1/4 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg 3 tablespoons (45 grams) water 1 1/2 teaspoons (5 grams) gelatin Scant 1/2 cup (100 grams) sugar for the caramel, plus an additional 3 tablespoons (45 grams) sugar for the meringue Advertisement 1/2 teaspoon lemon juice 1 cup (290 grams) plain canned pumpkin (no spices) or puréed roasted winter squash or pumpkin 3 egg whites 1/8 teaspoon cream of tartar 1/4 cup (30 grams) toasted hazelnuts, finely chopped or crushed 1. Whip the cream until it forms soft peaks. Chill in the refrigerator until ready to use. 2. Combine the brown sugar, cinnamon, ginger and nutmeg in a small bowl. 3. Place 2 tablespoons of the water in a small bowl and sprinkle the gelatin over the top. Stir, then let it sit while you make the caramel.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 4. Find a bowl that is large enough for you to dip the bottom of your saucepan into it; fill it with an inch of ice water and place it on your stove. Place the scant 1/2 cup (125 grams) sugar in a medium saucepan, preferably stainless steel. Add the remaining tablespoon of water and the lemon juice and carefully stir together with a heatproof rubber spatula. Using a wet pastry brush, brush down the sides of the saucepan so that there are no stray sugar crystals that could cause the caramel to seize. Turn the heat on medium-high and heat until the sugar dissolves and the mixture turns a light caramel color, 4 to 5 minutes. Do not stir, but from time to time carefully brush down the sides of the pan with the wet brush. Do not let the caramel get hotter than 325 degrees. As soon as it reaches this temperature and is golden brown, remove from the heat and dip the bottom of the saucepan into the bowl of cold water to stop the caramel from heating further. Let sit until the bubbles subside. 5. Using a heatproof spatula, carefully stir the brown sugar mixture into the hot caramel. It may bubble up, so be careful. Add the softened gelatin and stir to dissolve. Whisk in the canned pumpkin and transfer to a large mixing bowl. 6. Place the egg whites in the bowl of a stand mixer (or use a mixing bowl and electric beaters). Beat until they begin to foam, and add the cream of tartar and 1 tablespoon of the sugar. Beat at medium speed and add the remaining sugar in a slow, steady stream. Beat until the egg whites are stiff and shiny, about 2 minutes. Be careful not to overbeat. 7. Lighten the warm pumpkin mixture by folding in one-third of the beaten egg whites, using a balloon whisk or a large spatula. Pour the remaining egg whites over the top, and carefully fold them into the pumpkin mixture using a rubber spatula. Fold in the whipped cream. Advertisement 8. It’s easiest to do a neat job of filling the glasses if you use a pastry bag fitted with a wide round tip. Pipe or spoon the mousse into 8 glasses; use small tumblers, wine glasses or whiskey glasses. Sprinkle the ground hazelnuts over the top. If desired, make 2 layers of the hazelnuts: Pipe half the amount of the pumpkin mousse you need for each serving into the glasses, then sprinkle on a layer of hazelnuts; then pipe the rest and top with another layer. Cover the glasses and refrigerate for at least 2 hours and preferably overnight. Yield: 8 servings Advance preparation: This will keep for 2 days in the refrigerator and I think it tastes best the day after it’s made. Nutritional information per serving: 177 calories; 8 grams fat; 4 grams saturated fat; 0 grams polyunsaturated fat; 3 grams monounsaturated fat; 21 milligrams cholesterol; 25 grams carbohydrates; 2 grams dietary fiber; 30 milligrams sodium; 3 grams protein Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »