Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu.  Cranberry Borscht By Florence Fabricant 45 minutes Trending Cowboy Cookies By Marian Burros 35 minutes Trending Grilled Skirt Steak With Garlic and Herbs By Melissa Clark 25 minutes, plus at least 30 minutes’ marinating Trending Chocolate Cupcakes for Almost Everybody By Pete Wells 40 minutes Trending Grasshopper Brownies By Yossy Arefi About 1 hour plus chilling Trending Roasted Apple, Butternut Squash and Caramelized Onion Pizza By Tara Parker-Pope About 2 hours Trending Mexican Rice By Kim Severson 40 minutes  Pear And Cranberry Chutney By Nigella Lawson 1 hour 45 minutes  Cranberry and Walnut Relish By David Leite 30 minutes  Apple Pear Strudel With Dried Fruit and Almonds By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Cranberry-Orange Relish By Martha Rose Shulman 5 minutes healthy Pear and Apple Soufflé By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 45 minutes  Cranberry Borscht By Florence Fabricant 45 minutes Trending Cowboy Cookies By Marian Burros 35 minutes Trending Grilled Skirt Steak With Garlic and Herbs By Melissa Clark 25 minutes, plus at least 30 minutes’ marinating Trending Chocolate Cupcakes for Almost Everybody By Pete Wells 40 minutes Trending Grasshopper Brownies By Yossy Arefi About 1 hour plus chilling Trending Roasted Apple, Butternut Squash and Caramelized Onion Pizza By Tara Parker-Pope About 2 hours Trending Mexican Rice By Kim Severson 40 minutes  Pear And Cranberry Chutney By Nigella Lawson 1 hour 45 minutes  Cranberry and Walnut Relish By David Leite 30 minutes  Apple Pear Strudel With Dried Fruit and Almonds By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Cranberry-Orange Relish By Martha Rose Shulman 5 minutes healthy Pear and Apple Soufflé By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 45 minutes  Cranberry Borscht By Florence Fabricant 45 minutes Trending Cowboy Cookies By Marian Burros 35 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   I used Bartlett pears for this juicy galette, but pretty much any variety will work, as long as they’re not overly ripe. 
Featured in: 
To End The Feast, Something Sweet But Light. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Kosher,
                    High Fiber,
                    Halal,
                    Low Sodium,
                    French,
                    Dried Cranberry,
                    Pear
 By Sam Sifton 1 hour 30 minutes By Julia Moskin 1 1/2 hours, plus 1 to 2 days’ aging time for apples By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours 15 minutes By Joan Nathan 40 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus at least 5 hours' chilling By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Eric Asimov
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.