Advertisement 
Books  By                     
KATHERINE BOUTON

OCT. 17, 2011
 Dava Sobel has long taken a quirky approach to science history. In “Galileo’s Daughter” (1999), for instance, she focused not on the standard biographical material but on the scientist’s love for his illegitimate daughter, consigned to a convent at 13 and dead of dysentery at 33. “A More Perfect Heaven,” her new biography of the Renaissance astronomer Nicolaus Copernicus, is no exception. It begins with a “Prelude,” six chapters of conventional narrative. Part 2, “Interplay,” consists of a literal play, “And the Sun Stood Still.” Again without fanfare, in Part 3, “Aftermath,” she returns to conventional narrative, following the fate of Copernicus’s work long after his death, in 1543. Originally, she tells us, she intended the play to stand alone. Perhaps wisely — though unconventionally — she has provided needed context. In 1539, when Copernicus was 66, an audacious young acolyte named Rheticus showed up on his doorstep. What happened over the next two years is crucial to Copernicus’s legacy but mostly lost to history. Ms. Sobel relies on available resources and her own imagination to create a moving, plausible account of how the reluctant old man was at last persuaded to offer his revolutionary Sun-centered theory of the universe to a public that had no inkling the center was anything but Earth. Advertisement Copernicus had “leapt” to the idea in 1510, Ms. Sobel writes, “via intuition and mathematics.” Once the Sun had replaced Earth as the center of the universe, “the planets snapped into a new logical order,” arraying themselves “outward from the Sun according to their speed of revolution.” Advertisement “Everything fit,” she continues. “No wonder the beauty of the system prevailed over the absurdity of the Earth’s motion.” There were many steps to be taken before Copernicus had any chance of persuading his peers, not to mention the public, of his radical ideas of the cosmos. He feared ridicule and condemnation, so he needed incontrovertible proof. But he was a busy man. In addition to revolutionizing cosmology, he served as a Roman Catholic church administrator and physician to senior clergy members in the northern Polish town of Frauenberg, settling land disputes, many of them petty and complicated (“1 cow, 1 heifer, an ax and a sickle” was a typical ruling). He wrote a treatise on coinage, and calculated to the penny the price of bread, meeting the needs of both the peasants and the church-owned bakeries. All the while, he treaded lightly around his bosses. “My lord, Most Reverend Father in Christ, most gracious lord, to be heeded by me in everything,” he wrote to the hostile Bishop Danticus, before proceeding to defy the bishop’s order to remove his live-in housekeeper, Anna, his de facto wife. Yet despite his reluctance, the ideas spread far and wide. In Wittenberg, 500 miles away in Lutheran territory, young Rheticus embarked on a journey not only arduous but risky. Frauenberg stood in a bastion of Catholicism; Lutherans were not welcome. Ms. Sobel’s play-within-a-book opens with Rheticus asleep on Copernicus’s doorstep and then mistaking the old man for a thief. She imagines the dialogue and interactions between Copernicus and his protégé, as well as with the suspicious bishop; his devoted and alarmed housekeeper; and Franz, the young boy who serves as the bishop’s messenger and spy. The bishop soon discovers the presence of the Rheticus, even as he continues to fume about the housekeeper, and commands Copernicus to send the younger man away. Copernicus parries with an explanation that their work will systemize the ecclesiastical calendar, allowing the church “to calculate the correct date of Easter each year.” The bishop relents, with a caveat. “You can’t have them both,” he tells Copernicus. “Your choice, Nicolaus. The harlot. Or the heretic.” Shortly after, Copernicus discovers Rheticus and Franz in flagrante. Copernicus fears for his own life as well as Rheticus’s if the act is discovered, and sends him away. And this is where fact and dramaturgy seem to part ways.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Their work isn’t done, Rheticus protests, but Copernicus stands firm. As Rheticus leaves, the few completed chapters in hand, Copernicus appears to suffer a stroke: “May God be w...w...,” he tries to say. “His right arm falls to his side,” according to the stage directions, “but he still clutches the manuscript to his chest with the left as he sinks into a chair.” Blackout. Advertisement In the following scene, Franz dashes to Copernicus’s bedside, the completed manuscript in hand. There is no indication how much time has passed, and we are left to believe that the stroke that would kill him is the one we have seen him suffer. As the pages are handed to Copernicus, he breathes his last. It makes for good drama, but does it make for good history? Rheticus was accused by the father of a Leipzig student of practicing “upon him the shameful and cruel vice of sodomy,” so perhaps Ms. Sobel’s use of this particular indiscretion is justified. But Rheticus in fact did not stay away long. Albrecht, duke of Prussia, granted him permission to return, and he and Copernicus worked together for two years. “Together they reorganized and rewrote several sections of ‘On the Revolutions,’ ” Ms. Sobel writes in “Aftermath.” Eventually Bishop Danticus, seeing the inevitability of publication, asks to compose some verses as a foreword. The facts of the story, and Ms. Sobel’s elegant and authoritative writing, would have been sufficient unto themselves. The play is a clever device, but it raises more questions than it answers. She begins the chapter following the play this way: “No one knows what the brilliant, fervent young Rheticus said when he accosted the elderly beleaguered Copernicus in Frauenberg. It is safe to assume he did not laugh at the idea of the Earth in motion.” So why did she make Rheticus incredulous on hearing Copernicus’s theory? She ends her book with a lyrical reflection on what Copernicus might make of the universe we know today: “He had initiated a cascade of diminishments. The Earth is merely one of several planets in orbit around the Sun. The Sun is only one star among 200 billion in the Milky Way” — itself just one galaxy “surrounded by countless other galaxy groups stretched across the universe.” Sounding forgivably Carl Sagan-ish, she concludes, “All the shining stars of all the galaxies are as nothing compared to the great volume of unseen dark matter.” Dark matter itself “is dwarfed by the still more elusive entity, dark energy,” she writes. “The very notion of a center no longer makes any sense.” A former reporter for The New York Times, Ms. Sobel is an elegant stylist, a riveting and efficient storyteller, a writer who can bring the dustiest of subjects to full-blooded life — poignant, in the case of Galileo; cautious but also loving, loyal and feisty in the case of Copernicus. Why fool with the facts, when they themselves are so compelling? Because of an editing error, a review on Oct. 18 about “A More Perfect Heaven,” Dava Sobel’s biography of the astronomer Nicolaus Copernicus, described incorrectly the religious climate of Frauenberg, Poland, in 1539, when Copernicus and his young acolyte Rheticus began their work together. While the area around Frauenberg remained a bastion of Catholicism as Protestantism swept over Europe, it was not “one of Europe’s last bastions of Catholicism.” A version of this review appears in print on October 18, 2011, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Fiddling With a Two-Year Gap in the Busy Life of Copernicus.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »