Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu.  Cauliflower With Parsley-Butter Sauce By Pierre Franey 20 minutes Trending Ginger-Scallion Chicken By Melissa Clark 15 minutes Trending 3-Bean Good Luck Salad With Cumin Vinaigrette By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 45 minutes Trending Giant Crinkled Chocolate Chip Cookies By Julia Moskin 30 minutes, plus chilling Trending Strawberry Cassata By David Tanis 1 1/2 hours, plus chilling Trending Flat-and-Chewy Chocolate-Chip Cookies By Amanda Hesser 30 minutes Trending Bucatini With Red Clam Sauce By Julia Moskin About 30 minutes  Braised Carrots With Cumin and Red Pepper By David Tanis 30 minutes  Spicy Cauliflower With Ginger, Cumin and Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes easy Cauliflower With Herbs By Pierre Franey 15 minutes easy Cumin Rice By Pierre Franey 25 minutes easy Tangy Cauliflower By Marian Burros 10 minutes  Cauliflower With Parsley-Butter Sauce By Pierre Franey 20 minutes Trending Ginger-Scallion Chicken By Melissa Clark 15 minutes Trending 3-Bean Good Luck Salad With Cumin Vinaigrette By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 45 minutes Trending Giant Crinkled Chocolate Chip Cookies By Julia Moskin 30 minutes, plus chilling Trending Strawberry Cassata By David Tanis 1 1/2 hours, plus chilling Trending Flat-and-Chewy Chocolate-Chip Cookies By Amanda Hesser 30 minutes Trending Bucatini With Red Clam Sauce By Julia Moskin About 30 minutes  Braised Carrots With Cumin and Red Pepper By David Tanis 30 minutes  Spicy Cauliflower With Ginger, Cumin and Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes easy Cauliflower With Herbs By Pierre Franey 15 minutes easy Cumin Rice By Pierre Franey 25 minutes easy Tangy Cauliflower By Marian Burros 10 minutes  Cauliflower With Parsley-Butter Sauce By Pierre Franey 20 minutes Trending Ginger-Scallion Chicken By Melissa Clark 15 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   When I first prepared the cauliflower, it didn’t do much for me for the first few days. Then I went away for a week, and when I came back and tasted the thinly sliced pickled cauliflower, now nicely infused with the slightly piquant brine, I loved it. Make sure to slice the cauliflower very thin – less than 1/4 inch thick, close to 1/8 inch thick. 
Featured in: 
Sweet And Easy Vegetable Pickles. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Vegan,
                    Cauliflower,
                    Cumin,
                    Dried Chili Pepper
 By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour, plus 4 hours' marinating By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus several hours of chilling By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus at least 5 hours' chilling By Marian Burros 15 minutes By Pierre Franey About 15 minutes By Melissa Clark 45 minutes By Melissa Clark 1 hour, plus 1 1/2 hours' rising Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By David Tanis
         Cooking Guide 
          By Julia Moskin
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.