Advertisement 
Global Health  By                     
 DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.
 
APRIL 8, 2013
 Prominent American and Canadian research universities earned mostly C’s on the first report card assessing how much their laboratories benefit the world’s poor. The top grade, an A minus, went to the University of British Columbia. Various B’s were earned by Case Western Reserve, Johns Hopkins, the University of California, Irvine, Harvard and Emory. Beyond that, none of the 54 universities graded earned higher than a C+. The report card was written by Universities Allied for Essential Medicines, a student group with chapters at schools around the world. It was released in coordination with Doctors Without Borders and was endorsed by Dr. Paul Farmer, a pioneer in bringing health care to Haiti and Rwanda. “Universities are increasingly trying to position themselves as leaders in global health because students are demanding it,” said Bryan Collinsworth, of the student group. “But their definition of global health is often vague, and unfortunately trends toward easy, low-cost, P.R.-friendly steps.” Advertisement The grades were based on three categories: how much research is devoted to neglected diseases or to aspects of diseases that affect poor countries, like AIDS in babies; how much effort is made to ensure discoveries become available to the poor; and how many global health courses are taught. Five years ago, a similar report card ranking pharmaceutical companies was created by the Netherlands-based Access to Medicine Index. Major firms ignored it at first but by last year they were naming executives to ensure they excelled, and boasting to shareholders when they did. Advertisement A version of this article appears in print on April 9, 2013, on Page D6 of the New York edition with the headline: Universities Get Middling Grades in Helping Poor.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »