Advertisement By RONI CARYN RABINOCT. 17, 2011
 In mother-and-child paintings and Henry Moore sculptures, mothers and babies meld together with such ease they appear as one. But in the course of some pregnancies, the embryo’s struggle for nutrients can escalate into all-out war with the mother, a dangerous condition called pre-eclampsia. During a healthy pregnancy, the mother’s immune response against an invading foreign tissue — including an embryo and placenta — is dampened. Pre-eclampsia, a form of high blood pressure in pregnancy that strains the mother’s kidneys, results when that process is thwarted, the researchers suggest. The early-onset form of the condition, which starts at the beginning of gestation and continues until birth, affects one in 20 pregnancies and can cause seizures, stroke and death; the only cure is to deliver the baby. Now, scientists have proposed a novel hypothesis to explain how it develops. The new hypothesis is based in part on new findings about a sneaky protein made by the placenta, dubbed PP13 (for placental protein 13), which were published online last week in the journal Reproductive Sciences. Advertisement PP13 is known to be unusually low in women who develop pre-eclampsia, but its precise role in pregnancy has been a mystery. Dr. Harvey J. Kliman, a reproductive sciences researcher at Yale School of Medicine and the lead author of the paper, believes that the protein, acting as an agent of the placenta that nourishes the embryo, plays a key role in deflecting the mother’s response. Advertisement “The placenta will do everything it can to survive,” Dr. Kliman said. “It’s controlled by the genes of the father, and the father’s goal is to make the biggest placenta and the biggest baby possible.” This puts it at odds with the mother’s evolutionary interests, he said. “The mother’s goal is not to die during childbirth.” During gestation, placental tissue cells called trophoblasts act like invaders, attacking the maternal blood vessels that supply blood to the embryo in an effort to draw even more nutrients to the placenta to increase the supply of nutrients.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The mother’s body, he said, “should kill these cells and would like to.” But if the process of opening up the arteries fails, the fetus doesn’t draw sufficient blood from the mother, and she may develop pre-eclampsia. This rise in blood pressure increases blood flow to the placenta, but it is dangerous for the mother. The question the researchers set out to answer was: what is PP13’s role in all this? After obtaining placental specimens from normal pregnancies that were terminated abroad before the 14th week of gestation, researchers tested them for the presence of the protein and were surprised by two findings: large areas of dead maternal tissue around the veins in the maternal tissue, or decidua, under the placenta, along with a rich concentration of the protein PP13. Finding necrotic tissue within maternal tissue in a normal pregnancy was completely unexpected, Dr. Kliman said. “If you told me that we’d find areas of death and destruction in a normal pregnancy, I’d say you were nuts,” he said. “It looked like a battlefield.” Now he and his colleagues believe that PP13 acts as a decoy, distracting the mother’s immune cells away from the placental attack on the arteries by creating a diversion elsewhere — the mother’s veins. “Let’s say we’re planning to rob a bank, but before we rob the bank we blow up a grocery store a few blocks away so the police are distracted,” he explained. “That’s what we think this is. It’s the placenta saying, ‘Oh, I need to distract Mom and sneak in while she’s dealing with her inflamed veins.’ ” “It’s very sneaky,” he added. The hypothesis won’t immediately help with treatment of pre-eclampsia. But a new test to measure PP13 in pregnancy may help identify women at risk for pre-eclampsia early in gestation so they can be monitored more closely. David Haig, a professor of evolutionary biology at Harvard University, who was not involved in the research, said the paper posed an interesting hypothesis, though more work needs to be done to prove it. “Natural selection comes up with amazing adaptations,” he said. A version of this article appears in print on October 18, 2011, on Page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: Turncoat Of Placenta Is Watched For Trouble.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »