Advertisement By JASCHA HOFFMANAPRIL 15, 2013
 FESTIVAL  Live Ideas: The Worlds of Oliver Sacks. New York Live Arts. 219 West 19th Street, New York. April 17-21. The mind of the neurologist Oliver Sacks is at the center of the inaugural Live Ideas festival, curated by his longtime friend Lawrence Weschler. The festival features more than 20 talks and performances where academics and artists will honor the findings of Dr. Sacks, a self-described clinical ontologist, from the intricacies of stereo vision to the felt experience of Parkinson’s and Tourette’s. Panels will cover Dr. Sacks’s far-flung hobbies, from early adventures in weight lifting and long-distance swimming, to later obsessions with ferns and squid. Dr. Sacks’s first book,"Awakenings,” which recounts the revival of catatonic patients with the drug L-dopa, is the inspiration for a ballet suite, aHarold Pinter play (adapted for sign language), and a lyrical film edited from lost Super 8 footage taken by the doctor himself. MUSEUM  Exploratorium. Pier 15, San Francisco. Opening April 17 at 10 a.m. Adults, $25. “No one ever flunked a museum,” said the physicist Frank Oppenheimer, who founded the Exploratorium in 1969. This week the venerable hands-on museum moves to a $300 million complex, with scores of new exhibits exploring weather, plankton, vision, mental health and more. The space is vast, with an observatory that streams data from instruments on the roof and underwater, and plenty of room for old favorites like the Tinkering Studio, where children can build marble machines and dissect their toys. The outdoor gallery includes a fog-covered bridge and a wind-driven sound sculpture. On opening night the museum’s facade will be covered with lush analog projections evoking particle physics, fluid dynamics and the growth of plants and microbes. A clip from “A Birder’s Guide to Everything.” ARCHIVE  Digital Public Library of America. Public events, Boston Public Library, April 18-19. Online, April 18. Not satisfied with the online bookstores offered by companies like Google and Amazon, a small but ambitious group at the Berkman Center for Internet and Society at Harvard, with the help of an army of volunteers, is introducing the Digital Public Library of America. The group’s goal is to make “the cultural and scientific heritage of humanity available, free of charge, to all.” The site will start small on Thursday, with content from the Smithsonian, the New York Public Library and a handful of state archives, but plans to add millions of public domain books. In time it may grow to warehouse raw data from scientific experiments, according to Robert Darnton, the Harvard library director, who has praised  the site. True to the spirit of open access, a two-day event at the Boston Public Library will include an open board meeting. FILM Tribeca Film Festival. New York. April 17-28. Among the films at this year’s festival are two on AIDS research and a handful of energy documentaries, including a sequel to “Gasland”, about the divisive issue of fracking. Among the comedies is “A Birder’s Guide to Everything,” which follows a curious teenager seeking an extinct duck, with a turn by Ben Kingsley. And the ratio of white coats to red carpets may rise in years to come, as the Sloan Foundation has awarded grants to a batch of science-themed films in progress, among them screenplays about a geneticist in flooded near-future Vietnam, and young Isaac Newton trying to uncover the principles of love. A version of this article appears in print on April 16, 2013, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: A Digital Library and a Look at a Neurologist’s Hobbies.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »