Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

MARCH 11, 2013
 These are smaller than burgers and are served without buns, with a pungent garlic sauce. The recipe is inspired by a turkey and zucchini burger in “Jerusalem, a Cookbook,” by Yotam Ottolenghi and Sami Tamimi. 1/4 pound (about 3/4 cup) roasted mushroom base 1 cup, tightly packed, reconstituted (or cooked) coarse or medium bulgur 1/4 cup chopped flat leaf parsley 2 tablespoons chopped cilantro 2 tablespoons chopped dill or fresh mint 2 garlic cloves, minced or puréed 1/2 cup finely chopped onion 2 teaspoons baharat 1 teaspoon cumin seeds, lightly toasted and ground Advertisement 1/2 pound ground turkey, preferably light meat Salt to taste 1 6-ounce bag of spinach 1/2 cup cooked chickpeas (rinsed if using canned) Advertisement 1 egg, beaten About 2 tablespoons grapeseed or canola oil for frying For the Yogurt Sauce 1 1/2 cups drained yogurt or thick plain Greek yogurt 1 small garlic clove, pureed with a pinch of salt 1 tablespoon lemon or lime juice 1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil 1 tablespoon sumac Salt and freshly ground pepper to taste 1. In a large bowl, combine the mushroom base, bulgur, chopped herbs, garlic, onion, baharat, cumin, and ground turkey. Salt generously.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 2. Steam the spinach for 2 minutes, rinse with cold water and squeeze out excess water with you hands. Chop medium-fine and add the turkey mixture. 3. In a food processor fitted with the steel blade, blend together the chickpeas and egg. Scrape into the bowl with the turkey mixture and mix everything together well. Shape into patties, about 2 tablespoons (45 grams) each; they should measure about 2 1/2 inches in diameter and be about 1/2 inch thick. Place on a sheet pan and refrigerate for 30 minutes if possible. 4. Meanwhile mix together the ingredients for the yogurt sauce. 5. Preheat the oven to 425 degrees. Line a sheet pan with parchment. Heat 1 or 2 large, heavy skillets over medium-high heat and add enough oil to lightly coat the bottom. When the pans are hot, add the patties and cook for 4 minutes on each side. Transfer to the parchment-lined sheet pan and place in the oven for 5 minutes. Remove from the oven and serve hot or room temperature, with the yogurt sauce. Yield: About 18 patties, serving 4 to 6 Advance preparation: The roasted mushroom base will keep for three days in the refrigerator. The cooked patties will keep for 2 or 3 days in the refrigerator and can be reheated or eaten cold. Nutritional information per serving (4 servings; dark meat from Trader Joe’s used for turkey analysis): 385 calories; 22 grams fat; 4 grams saturated fat; 5 grams polyunsaturated fat; 11 grams monounsaturated fat; 95 milligrams cholesterol; 25 grams carbohydrates; 6 grams dietary fiber; 214 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 26 grams protein Nutritional information per serving (6 servings; dark meat from Trader Joe’s used for turkey analysis): 256 calories; 15 grams fat; 3 grams saturated fat; 3 grams polyunsaturated fat; 7 grams monounsaturated fat; 63 milligrams cholesterol; 16 grams carbohydrates; 4 grams dietary fiber; 143 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 17 grams protein Advertisement Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »