Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

APRIL 15, 2013
 Like so many of my Mediterranean gratins, this is bound with a combination of rice and egg. It’s good hot or cold. 1 generous bunch beet greens, stemmed and washed 2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 1 medium onion, chopped 2 large garlic cloves, minced Salt to taste 1 teaspoon fresh thyme leaves or 1/2 teaspoon dried thyme 3 eggs 1/2 cup low-fat milk (2 percent) Freshly ground pepper 1 cup cooked brown rice, arborio rice or Calrose rice Advertisement 2 ounces Gruyère cheese, grated (1/2 cup, tightly packed) 2 tablespoons freshly grated Parmesan 1/4 cup bread crumbs (optional) Advertisement 1. Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. Oil a 2-quart gratin dish with olive oil. Either blanch the beet greens for 1 minute in a large pot of generously salted boiling water, or steam over an inch of boiling water for 2 to 5 minutes, until wilted and tender. Rinse with cold water, squeeze out water and chop medium-fine. Set aside. 2. Heat 1 tablespoon of the oil over medium heat in a large, heavy skillet and add the onion. Cook, stirring, until tender, about 5 minutes, and add the garlic and a generous pinch of salt. Cook, stirring, until the garlic is fragrant, about 30 seconds. Stir in the cooked greens and the thyme and toss together. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Remove from the heat.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 3. In a large bowl, beat together the eggs and milk. Add 1/2 teaspoon salt and freshly ground pepper to taste. Stir in the greens mixture, the rice and the cheeses and mix together well. Scrape into the oiled baking dish. Sprinkle the bread crumbs over the top. Drizzle on the remaining tablespoon of oil. 4. Bake 35 to 40 minutes, until sizzling and lightly browned on the top and sides. Remove from the heat and allow to sit for at least 10 minutes before serving. Yield: 4 to 6 servings. Advance preparation: The gratin will be good for 3 or 4 days, and is as good served cold or at room temperature as it is hot. Nutritional information per serving (4 servings): 278 calories; 17 grams fat; 6 grams saturated fat; 2 grams polyunsaturated fat; 8 grams monounsaturated fat; 160 milligrams cholesterol; 19 grams carbohydrates; 4 grams dietary fiber; 286 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 14 grams protein Nutritional information per serving (6 servings): 186 calories; 14 grams fat; 1 grams saturated fat; 1 gram polyunsaturated fat; 6 grams monounsaturated fat; 106 milligrams cholesterol; 13 grams carbohydrates; 3 grams dietary fiber; 190 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 9 grams protein Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »