Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Greek Baked Squash Omelet By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour  Greek Stewed Green Beans and Yellow Squash With Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman About 55 minutes  Chicken Tagine With Rhubarb By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Provençal Greens Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes  Zucchini Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours  Garlic Shrimp With Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Greek Chicken Stew With Cauliflower and Olives By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Easy Fish Stew With Mediterranean Flavors By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Polenta With Zucchini and Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Greek Baked Beans With Honey and Dill By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes healthy Stewed Cauliflower With Red Onions and Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Greek Baked Squash Omelet By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour  Greek Stewed Green Beans and Yellow Squash With Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman About 55 minutes  Chicken Tagine With Rhubarb By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Provençal Greens Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes  Zucchini Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours  Garlic Shrimp With Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Greek Chicken Stew With Cauliflower and Olives By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Easy Fish Stew With Mediterranean Flavors By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Polenta With Zucchini and Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Greek Baked Beans With Honey and Dill By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes healthy Stewed Cauliflower With Red Onions and Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Greek Baked Squash Omelet By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour  Greek Stewed Green Beans and Yellow Squash With Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman About 55 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   The robust flavors in the tomato sauce work well with a variety of  white fishes.  If you have traveled in the Greek Islands, chances are you have had this fish. Use a white-fleshed fish that will stand up to the robust flavors in the tomato sauce. From the Monterey Bay Aquarium’s list of best choices I recommend Pacific cod or halibut, black cod or striped bass. From the “Good Alternatives” list I recommend Mahi Mahi from United States waters.  
Featured in: 
More Choices For Healthy Fish Dishes. 
   
Healthy,
                    Dairy Free,
                    Gluten Free,
                    Kosher,
                    High Fiber,
                    Greek,
                    Canned Tomato,
                    Fish,
                    Onion
 By Mark Bittman 15 minutes By Sam Sifton 15 minutes By Melissa Clark 25 minutes By Mark Bittman 20 minutes By Sam Sifton 1 hour By Alison Roman 20 minutes, plus marinating By Dorie Greenspan 1 hour 25 minutes 1 hour Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Julia Moskin
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Julia Moskin
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.