Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

MARCH 28, 2011
 Spring vegetables aren’t here quiet yet — and if the weather doesn’t improve soon, they may not arrive for a while. Until then, there’s a fine alternative: Swiss chard. This leafy green, hearty enough to withstand the cold but more delicate in flavor than kale and collards, has been finding its way into all sorts of comforting dishes in my kitchen, from pastas to soups to stir-fries. It’s the most versatile of greens, and an excellent source of calcium and potassium, vitamin C, vitamin A and beta-carotene. Some of you have asked why I blanch greens before using them in dishes. I find it’s the most efficient way to wilt them quickly and evenly, and they aren’t boiled so long -- just a minute or two — that the nutrients are depleted. But lately I’ve also been steaming chard, and I find this works well, too. I use the basket of my pasta pot, placing it above an inch of water in the pot. Orecchiette With Swiss Chard, Red Peppers and Goat Cheese When making this easy pasta, be sure to cut the sweet bell peppers into very small dice; that way, they’ll lodge in the hollows of the orecchiette, along with the chard and goat cheese. Advertisement 3/4 pound Swiss chard (1 bunch), stemmed and washed in two changes of water 1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil Advertisement 2 red bell peppers, cut in small dice Pinch of red pepper flakes (optional) 1 to 2 garlic cloves (to taste), minced Salt and freshly ground pepper 1 teaspoon chopped fresh marjoram 3/4 pound orecchiette 2 ounces goat cheese, crumbled (1/2 cup)  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 1. Begin heating a large pot of water while you stem and wash the chard. Fill a bowl with ice water. When the water in the pot comes to a boil, salt generously and add the chard. Blanch the chard leaves for one to two minutes until tender. Using a skimmer or a slotted spoon, transfer the chard to a bowl of ice water, then drain and squeeze out excess water. Chop medium-fine. Keep the pot of water at a simmer. 2. Heat 1 tablespoon of the olive oil over medium heat in a large, heavy skillet, and add the bell peppers and the red pepper flakes. Cook, stirring often, until tender, five to eight minutes. Add the garlic and salt to taste, and stir for half a minute. Then stir in the chopped chard and the marjoram. Stir together for a few seconds, then turn the heat to very low. 3. Bring the water in the pasta pot back to a boil, and add the orecchiette. Cook al dente, following the timing instructions on the package. Add about 1/2 cup of the pasta water to the pan with the chard and peppers. Stir in the goat cheese. Drain the pasta, transfer to the pan and toss with the chard, pepper and goat cheese mixture. Serve hot. Yield: Serves four. Advance preparation: You can make this through Step 2 several hours before cooking the pasta. The pepper and chard mixture can be stored in the refrigerator for a couple of days and reheated. Nutritional information per serving: 445 calories; 4 grams saturated fat; 1 gram polyunsaturated fat; 4 grams monounsaturated fat; 15 milligrams cholesterol; 71 grams carbohydrates; 5 grams dietary fiber; 239 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 17 grams protein Martha Rose Shulman is the author of "The Very Best of Recipes for Health." We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »