Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

MARCH 14, 2011
 My son, Liam, 13, never eats lunch at school. I harp about how it isn’t healthy; I tell him that he needs some energy in the afternoon. But he wants to play basketball or football during recess, and no matter how much I nag, lunch goes uneaten. So eventually I stopped packing sandwiches for him. Unsurprisingly, he is often famished and grumpy after school, so I try to get something nutritious into that growing adolescent body as quickly as possible. Quesadillas are always a good bet: It takes less than a minute to spread something good on a corn tortilla, sprinkle on some grated cheese and slap another corn tortilla on top. I zap the quesadilla in the microwave for one minute or so, cut it into wedges and it’s good to go. Liam scarfs it up, sometimes asks for more, drinks a glass of milk — and he’s human again. These quesadillas have little in common with fast-food varieties, which are made with flour tortillas and a lot more cheese. A Taco Bell cheese quesadilla has 480 calories and 1,000 milligrams of sodium; if you order cheese quesadillas at Baja Fresh, you’re asking for 1,200 calories and 2,140 milligrams of sodium. I make a meal out of quesadillas by including beans or vegetables with the cheese, and I use corn tortillas rather than flour. Another plus: Quesadillas make a great destination for leftovers. Advertisement Baked Bean and Cheese Quesadillas Beans in a thick sauce make a delicious and comforting quesadilla filling. Advertisement 2 corn tortillas 1/3 cup cooked baked beans, homemade or canned, with sauce 1 ounce grated Monterey Jack, Cheddar or mixed cheeses (1/4 cup)  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Salsa for serving (optional) 1. In a microwave: Place a corn tortilla on a plate. Top with the beans. Lightly mash the beans with the back of a spoon. Sprinkle on the cheese, and top with the remaining tortilla. Press down gently, then microwave for 1 to 1 1/2 minutes until the cheese has melted. Remove from the microwave, cut into quarters or sixths and serve. In a pan: Place a corn tortilla in a pan. Top with the beans. Lightly mash the beans with the back of a spoon. Sprinkle on the cheese. Turn the heat to medium-high, and heat until the cheese begins to melt. Place the remaining tortilla on top of the cheese, and press down lightly. Flip over the quesadilla in the pan, and heat for about 30 seconds or until the cheese has melted. Flip back over, and remove to a plate. Cut into quarters or sixths and serve. Yield: One serving. Advance preparation: Cooked beans will keep for four to five days in the refrigerator. Nutritional information per quesadilla (commercial baked beans will have more sodium): 269 calories; 6 grams saturated fat; 1 gram polyunsaturated fat; 2 grams monounsaturated fat; 25 milligrams cholesterol; 29 grams carbohydrates; 6 grams dietary fiber; 269 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 12 grams protein Martha Rose Shulman is the author of "The Very Best of Recipes for Health."  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »