Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. easy Braised Cabbage By Elaine Louie 30 minutes  Garlic Shrimp With Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes  Monkfish à la Provençale By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes  Apple and Swiss Chard Pie By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus resting  Puréed Winter Squash and Red Lentil Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking  Chicken Breasts With Feta and Figs By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus 30 to 60 minutes' marinating easy Spiced and Herbed Millet By Nigella Lawson 30 minutes healthy Sweet Potato and Apple Kugel By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes  Sweet Millet Kugel With Dried Apricots and Raisins By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours  Quinoa and Cauliflower Kugel With Cumin By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours  Quinoa and Carrot Kugel By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours easy Braised Cabbage By Elaine Louie 30 minutes  Garlic Shrimp With Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes  Monkfish à la Provençale By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes  Apple and Swiss Chard Pie By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus resting  Puréed Winter Squash and Red Lentil Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking  Chicken Breasts With Feta and Figs By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus 30 to 60 minutes' marinating easy Spiced and Herbed Millet By Nigella Lawson 30 minutes healthy Sweet Potato and Apple Kugel By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes  Sweet Millet Kugel With Dried Apricots and Raisins By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours  Quinoa and Cauliflower Kugel With Cumin By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours  Quinoa and Carrot Kugel By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours easy Braised Cabbage By Elaine Louie 30 minutes  Garlic Shrimp With Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   Light, nutty millet combines beautifully with the sweet, tender cabbage and onions in this kugel. I wouldn’t hesitate to serve this as a main dish.  
Featured in: 
Sweet And Savory Kugels. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Gluten Free,
                    Kosher,
                    Nut Free,
                    Halal,
                    Jewish,
                    Cabbage,
                    Cottage Cheese,
                    Millet
 By Melissa Clark 45 minutes By Melissa Clark 3 hours 40 minutes By Joan Nathan About 6 1/2 hours, plus overnight chilling By Julia Moskin 1 hour, plus chilling and rising By Florence Fabricant 15 minutes By Tara Parker-Pope About 2 hours By Kim Severson 45 minutes, plus 1 hour's marinating By Florence Fabricant 20 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Eric Asimov
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.