Advertisement By JASCHA HOFFMANFEB. 11, 2013
 BOOK “Mating Intelligence Unleashed: The Role of the Mind in Sex, Dating, and Love.” By Glenn Geher and Scott Barry Kaufman. Oxford University Press. 320 pp. $27.95. Like a peer-reviewed version of"The Game,"this geeky treatise mines evolutionary and experimental psychology to help readers “succeed in their own mating-relevant goals.” The authors’ broad test of “mating intelligence,” originally devised as a magazine quiz, measures both desirable traits like creativity and kindness, and relationship skills like empathy, lie-detection — and even a bit of deception. OUTING The Great Backyard Bird Count. Worldwide. Feb. 15-18.www.birdcount.org This annual event, organized by the National Audubon Society and the Cornell Lab of Ornithology, turns bird-watchers into avian census takers. Last year’s observers counted more than 17 million birds in North America, uncovering an unusual number of snowy owls and a shortage of blue jays in New England. This year the project goes global. TELEVISION “Earth From Space.""Nova,” from PBS. Feb. 13 (check local listings). How do dust storms in the Sahara fertilize the Amazon? How does an undersea waterfall in Antarctica affect climate around the globe? How does the Earth’s magnetic field protect us from solar winds? Orbiting satellites provide the answers in this two-hour special, made with the help of NASA. Talking heads explain the science, from microbiology to meteorology. But the main attraction is a superb batch of computer animations, which reveal the hidden cycles of energy and matter that sustain life on Earth. PANEL “Lust and Love in the Animal Kingdom.” The New York Academy of Sciences. 7 World Trade Center, 250 Greenwich St., 40th floor. Feb. 12, 6:30 p.m. $25. The New York Academy of Sciences continues its monthly series inspired by the seven deadly sins with a panel on animal sex. Danielle N. Lee, a mammalogist, will discuss the secretive mating behaviors of the African giant pouched rat. Brian Switek, a science journalist, will point to fossil evidence for teenage sex among tyrannosaurs, as well as evolutionary arguments for the theory that dinosaurs had penises. And Marina Cords, a Columbia zoologist, will share her hunch that most primates “lust but probably rarely love their mates” — with the possible exception of humans. A version of this list appears in print on February 12, 2013, on Page D3 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »