Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
RITCHIE S. KING

NOV. 7, 2011
 In the open savanna, a lion’s roar travels up to five miles, proclaiming the extent of its territory: If you can hear it, get out. It turns out that the strength of the roar is not just a matter of kingly lung capacity. New research shows that lions, along with tigers, have unusual vocal cords that are fine-tuned for making loud and rough-sounding noises even without a lot of respiratory exertion. Vocal cords consist of two membranes that vibrate to produce sound when the muscles of the voice box bring them close together. In most vocal species (with the exception of birds, which have no vocal cords), the two membranes are slightly curved. But in the large cats, an uncommon layer of fat shapes the cords into flat pads that vibrate more easily. “It’s an incredibly efficient instrument,” said Ingo R. Titze, a biophysicist at the University of Iowa and author of the study. “You don’t have to kill yourself to make a sound with it.” Advertisement The research, performed by scientists from the National Center for Voice and Speech at the University of Utah and University of Iowa, and the Boys Town National Research Hospital in Omaha, appeared in the journal PLoS One. To uncover the physics of roaring, Dr. Titze and his colleagues built computer models of the vocal cords of both lions and tigers based on measurements of tissue samples taken from zoo animals that had been euthanized because of old age. The models enabled them to see how different exhalation strengths make the vocal cords tremble. Advertisement The researchers discovered that the layer of fat not only helps shape the vocal cords but also makes them vibrate erratically, endowing roars with that rough, mind-hijacking quality. It turns out that human babies also have fattier vocal cords, and Dr. Titze suspects that may make their crying especially attention-grabbing. A report in the Observatory column on Nov. 8 about research into the unusual vocal cords of lions and tigers described incorrectly the National Center for Voice and Speech, where some of the researchers were based. The center operates at the University of Utah and is a collaboration between that institution and the University of Iowa; it is not a University of Iowa program. A version of this article appears in print on November 8, 2011, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Fat Layer on Vocal Cords Gives Big Cats Their Roar.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »