Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

FEB. 11, 2013
 Tangerines, clementines, and mandarins are interchangeable for this light, refreshing sorbet. 125 grams (1/2 cup) water 150 grams sugar (approximately 3/4 cup) 50 grams corn syrup or mild honey (approximately 2 tablespoons) 1000 grams freshly squeezed tangerine, Clementine or mandarin juice (1 quart) 1. Combine the water and sugar in a saucepan and bring to boil. Reduce the heat and simmer until the sugar has dissolved. Stir in the corn syrup or honey, remove from the heat and allow to cool. Stir in the tangerine juice. Transfer to a container and chill in the refrigerator for two hours or overnight. 2. Chill a container in the freezer. Freeze the juice mixture in an ice cream maker following the manufacturer’s instructions. Transfer to the chilled container and place in the freezer for two hours to pack. Allow to soften in the refrigerator for 15 to 30 minutes before serving. Advertisement Yield: About 5 cups, serving 6 Advance preparation: This will keep for a couple of weeks in the freezer but it is best when freshly made.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Variation: If you don’t have an ice cream maker you can make a granita. Which will also allow you to omit the corn syrup and reduce the sugar if desired. Make the recipe through Step 1. Chill a 9 by 11-inch baking dish in the freezer. Pour the mixture into the chilled baking dish and place back in the freezer. After 30 minutes use a fork to scrape the frozen ice crystals from the outside of the baking dish into the center. Continue to scrape the mixture with a fork every 30 minutes until you have a uniform frozen mixture. It should not be frozen solid. If you forget to scrape and the mixture does freeze like an ice cube, cut into chunks and use a food processor fitted with the steel blade to break it up. Transfer to a container and freeze. Allow to soften for 15 minutes in the refrigerator before serving. Nutritional information per serving: 195 calories; 0 grams fat; 0 grams saturated fat; 0 grams polyunsaturated fat; 0 grams monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 49 grams carbohydrates; 0 grams dietary fiber; 8 milligrams sodium; 1 gram protein Advertisement Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”  A version of this article appears in print on February 12, 2013, on Page D5 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »