Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

JULY 12, 2010
 When it’s steaming outside, the last thing you want to do when you arrive home from work is cook. But you won’t have to turn to take-out if you organize your summer meals around main dish salads and prepare most of the ingredients ahead of time. Grain and bean salads are perfect for hot days. You’ll be pleasantly surprised by how nicely grains and beans soak up salad dressings and how refreshing they can taste with summer ingredients, like tomatoes and cucumbers. Cook up a batch of grains and beans on a Sunday morning before the apartment heats up, freeze them in plastic freezer bags and pull them out when you need them. To freeze grains, cook as directed. Allow to cool, then place them in a freezer bag (or portion them into more than one bag). Flatten the bag and seal, then place it in the freezer. Thaw overnight or over several hours in the refrigerator. You can also thaw them in the microwave. I prefer to freeze cooked beans in freezer containers in their cooking liquid, so they don’t dry out. Thaw overnight in the refrigerator, or use the microwave. Then drain and proceed with the recipe. Advertisement Pasta can also be cooked ahead if you’re serving it cold, though it doesn’t freeze well because it becomes too soggy. Advertisement Summer Pasta Salad on a Bed of Arugula The trick to making a successful pasta salad is to undercook the pasta slightly so that it doesn’t become soggy if you don’t serve the salad right away. 1 large red bell pepper 2 large garlic cloves, minced or pureed (more to taste) Salt to taste 1 to 2 teaspoons balsamic vinegar, to taste 3 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 1 1/4 pounds ripe tomatoes Freshly ground pepper 1 cup fresh peas or 1/4 pound green beans, trimmed and broken into 2-inch pieces 3/4 pound fusilli 1/3 cup freshly grated or slivered Parmesan, or a combination of Parmesan and Pecorino  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 1 bunch, or 1 six-ounce bag arugula, preferably wild arugula, rinsed and dried 1. Roast the pepper. When cool enough to handle, peel, seed and slice thin. Combine in a bowl with one of the garlic cloves, salt to taste and 2 teaspoons of the olive oil. Set aside while you bring a large pot of water to a boil. Use a pasta insert if you have one. 2. To peel the tomatoes, drop them into the water after it comes to a boil and leave for 30 seconds. Transfer the tomatoes with a slotted spoon to a bowl of cold water. (Do not drain the water from the pot.) Peel the tomatoes, and cut in half across the equator. Place a strainer over a bowl, and squeeze out the seeds over the strainer. Rub the seed pods against the strainer to extract the flavorful juice, and discard the seeds. Chop the tomatoes very finely, and add to the bowl with the juice. Add the peppers, balsamic vinegar, remaining olive oil, salt and pepper. Allow to sit for 30 minutes, if possible. Taste and adjust seasonings. 3. Bring the water back to a boil, salt generously and add the peas or green beans. Parboil for four or five minutes until just tender. Remove from the water with a skimmer (or lift out with the pasta insert) and transfer to a bowl of ice water. Drain and add to the tomatoes. 4. Bring the water back to a boil, and add the pasta. Cook until just al dente and firm to the bite. Drain and toss with the tomato mixture. Add the basil and Parmesan. Toss again. Line a platter, bowl or individual plates with a bed of arugula. Top with the pasta and serve. Advertisement Yield: Serves four. Advance preparation: You can make the dish through step 3 several hours before serving. You can cook the pasta and toss with the tomato mixture up to an hour before serving, but make sure to undercook the pasta slightly so that it doesn’t become soggy. If you want to cook the pasta the night before, toss with a tablespoon of olive oil (reduce the olive oil in the tomato sauce by 1 tablespoon) and keep in the refrigerator. Nutritional information per serving: 505 calories; 14 grams fat; 3 grams saturated fat; 6 milligrams cholesterol; 79 grams carbohydrates; 8 grams dietary fiber; 130 milligrams sodium (does not include salt added during cooking); 19 grams protein Martha Rose Shulman can be reached at martha-rose-shulman.com. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »