Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

JAN. 30, 2012
 On a recent Thursday at my neighborhood farmers’ market, one farmer had three different varieties of kale on offer – black kale (also known as cavolo nero, dinosaur kale, dragon tongue, lacinato or Tuscan kale), curly gray-green kale and red Russian kale, another ruffled variety that has red veins and a purplish color. I bought all three and had a lot of fun turning them into dinners over the next 6 days. Kale is a member of the cruciferous family of vegetables (genus Brassica), so named because their flowers have four petals in the shape of a cross. A nutritional powerhouse that tastes wonderful when properly cooked, kale is one of nature’s best sources of vitamins A, C and K and a very good source of copper, potassium, iron, manganese and phosphorus. The flavonoids and sulfur-containing compounds called glucosinolates are believed to have antioxidant properties, as are two other compounds that kale delivers, zeaxanthin and lutein, both thought to play a role in protecting the eyes. These greens are hearty, and they maintain about 50 percent of their volume when you cook them, unlike spinach, which cooks down to a fraction of its volume. The various types of kale also maintain a lot of texture, which makes them perfect for stir-fries. Make sure to remove the ropy stems and wash the leaves in at least two changes of water, as organic kale can be very attractive to aphids. Aphids won’t hurt you, but it might take a few rinses to clean them off the leaves. Spicy Stir-Fried Tofu With Kale and Red Pepper Kale is a good choice of greens for a stir-fry because it retains its texture. Advertisement 1 bunch curly kale (about 10 ounces), stemmed and washed 1 14-ounce package firm tofu, sliced about 1/4 inch thick Advertisement 1 tablespoon soy sauce 1 tablespoon Shao Hsing rice wine or dry sherry 1/4 cup chicken or vegetable stock 1 teaspoon cornstarch 1/4 teaspoon salt (more to taste) 1/4 to 1/2 teaspoon ground pepper, preferably white pepper 1/4 teaspoon sugar 1 tablespoon peanut oil or canola oil 1 tablespoon minced garlic 1 tablespoon minced ginger 1 serrano pepper, seeded and minced 1 red bell pepper, cut in 2-inch julienne 2 teaspoons dark sesame oil  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 1. Bring a medium saucepan of lightly salted water to a boil, add the kale and blanch 1 minute. Transfer to a bowl of cold water, drain and squeeze out excess water. Chop coarsely and place in a bowl near your wok. 2. Cut the tofu into dominos and place them on paper towels. Place another paper towel on top and prepare the remaining ingredients. 3. In a small bowl or measuring cup, combine the soy sauce, rice wine or sherry, stock and cornstarch. Combine the salt, pepper and sugar in another small bowl. Have all the ingredients within arm’s length of your wok. 4. Heat a 14-inch flat-bottomed wok or 12-inch steel skillet over high heat until a drop of water evaporates within a second or two when added to the pan. Swirl in the canola or peanut oil by adding it to the sides of the pan and swirling the pan, then add the tofu. Stir-fry 1 to 2 minutes, until it begins to color. Add the garlic, ginger and chili and stir-fry for no more than 10 seconds. Advertisement 5. Add the red pepper and stir-fry for 1 minute. Add the kale, salt, pepper and sugar and toss together. Add the soy sauce mixture and the sesame oil.  Stir-fry for another 30 seconds to a minute. Remove from the heat and serve with grains or noodles. Yield: 4 servings. Advance preparation: This is a last-minute preparation, but the blanched kale will keep for about 4 days in the refrigerator. Nutritional information per serving: 194 calories; 1 gram saturated fat; 5 grams polyunsaturated fat; 4 grams monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 14 grams carbohydrates; 3 grams dietary fiber; 283 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 12 grams protein    Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »