Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Peach Buttermilk Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus at least 1 hour's refrigeration Trending Salmon With Anchovy-Garlic Butter By Melissa Clark 25 minutes Trending Stir-Fried Beef and Sugar Snap Peas By Melissa Clark 30 minutes Trending Moroccan Chickpeas With Chard By Melissa Clark 2 1/2 hours, plus overnight soaking Trending Fish Tacos By Sam Sifton 30 minutes Trending Beer Bread By Florence Fabricant 40 minutes Trending Flat-and-Chewy Chocolate-Chip Cookies By Amanda Hesser 30 minutes  Giant Beans With Spinach, Tomatoes and Feta By Martha Rose Shulman 3 hours healthy Turkish Yogurt and Spinach Dip By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Chickpeas With Baby Spinach By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Dill Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 20 minutes healthy Yogurt or Buttermilk Soup With Toasted Barley By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours 30 minutes healthy Peach Buttermilk Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus at least 1 hour's refrigeration Trending Salmon With Anchovy-Garlic Butter By Melissa Clark 25 minutes Trending Stir-Fried Beef and Sugar Snap Peas By Melissa Clark 30 minutes Trending Moroccan Chickpeas With Chard By Melissa Clark 2 1/2 hours, plus overnight soaking Trending Fish Tacos By Sam Sifton 30 minutes Trending Beer Bread By Florence Fabricant 40 minutes Trending Flat-and-Chewy Chocolate-Chip Cookies By Amanda Hesser 30 minutes  Giant Beans With Spinach, Tomatoes and Feta By Martha Rose Shulman 3 hours healthy Turkish Yogurt and Spinach Dip By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Chickpeas With Baby Spinach By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Dill Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 20 minutes healthy Yogurt or Buttermilk Soup With Toasted Barley By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours 30 minutes healthy Peach Buttermilk Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus at least 1 hour's refrigeration Trending Salmon With Anchovy-Garlic Butter By Melissa Clark 25 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   This is informed by my yogurt or buttermilk soup with wheat berries from a few weeks ago, but this time I stirred chopped steamed spinach into the refreshing mixture. It’s a great soup to keep on hand as summer arrives. For a particularly irresistible version, add some diced avocado. 
Featured in: 
Soups With Spinach, Five Ways. 
   

Learn: How to Make Soup
 
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Kosher,
                    High Fiber,
                    Low Cholesterol,
                    Buttermilk,
                    Spinach,
                    Yogurt
 By Melissa Clark 45 minutes By Tara Parker-Pope About 2 hours By Florence Fabricant 1 hour By Jennifer Steinhauer 1 hour By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/4 hours, plus 1 1/2 hours' cooling By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus at least 5 hours' chilling Cooking Guide 
          By Samin Nosrat
         Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Samin Nosrat
         Cooking Guide 
          By Julia Moskin
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.