Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

JULY 15, 2013
 If you are trying to put dinner together in a hot apartment this summer you will appreciate the fact that stir-frying in a wok requires little more than a five-minute blast of heat. Some time is needed to prepare the ingredients while the stove is off, but once you begin cooking, be ready to eat. Yes, you have to cook the rice or noodles you will be eating with your stir-fries, but those can be cooked ahead, in the morning for example, before it gets too hot, or in a rice cooker, and then reheated in the wok. My stir-fries this week were inspired by one vendor at a small Los Angeles farmers’ market who sold me an array of Asian greens and vegetables – long beans (both purple and green), amaranth and water spinach (ong choy), generous bunches of cilantro with the roots still attached, a variety of hot and sweet green peppers, and long, sweet Asian eggplants. Some of them were new to me and it was fun figuring out how to get the best results with them. You should be able to find most of these ingredients at Asian markets, but I have given alternatives just in case. Stir-Fried Shrimp With Amaranth (or Beet Greens), Red Pepper and Cilantro Whenever I use a red-tinged vegetable like amaranth in a dish I know the vegetable is bringing with it lots of antioxidant-rich anthocyanins, a flavonoid found in dark red and blue pigments. Use beet greens if you can’t find amaranth; they will bring with them the same red pigments, which make for a richly colored sauce. For a beautiful meal, serve the stir-fry with red rice, like Bhutanese rice. 1/2 cup chicken or vegetable broth 1 tablespoon soy sauce (more to taste) 2 tablespoons Shao Hsing rice wine or dry sherry Advertisement 1/2 teaspoon sugar 1 teaspoon cornstarch 2 tablespoons minced ginger 1 tablespoon minced garlic 1 jalapeño or serrano chiles, minced Advertisement 3/4 to 1 pound medium shrimp, shelled and deveined Salt to taste 2 tablespoons peanut oil or canola oil 1 large red bell pepper, cut in 2-inch julienne 1 generous bunch amaranth (about 3/4 pound), stemmed and washed, or 1 generous bunch beet greens, stemmed, washed and roughly chopped (about 8 cups greens) 1 bunch scallions, white and light green parts only, cut in half lengthwise and cut in 1-inch lengths  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 1/2 cup chopped cilantro 1. Combine the broth, 2 teaspoons of the soy sauce, and 1 tablespoon of the rice wine or sherry and sugar in a small bowl. Combine the garlic, 1 tablespoon of the ginger, and the minced chiles in another bowl. Have all of your ingredients within reach of your wok or pan. 2. In a medium bowl combine the cornstarch, 1 teaspoon soy sauce, 1 tablespoon rice wine or sherry, and 1 tablespoon of the ginger. Stir together well. Lightly salt the shrimp and toss with the cornstarch mixture until coated. 3. Heat a 14-inch flat-bottomed wok or a 12-inch skillet over high heat until a drop of water evaporates within a second or two when added to the pan. Add in the oil by pouring it on the sides of the pan and swirling the pan. Add the garlic, ginger and chiles and stir-fry for no more than 10 seconds. Add the red pepper and stir-fry for 1 minute. Add the shrimp with any liquid in the bowl and stir-fry for 2 to 3 minutes, until pink and opaque. Add the amaranth (or beet greens) and scallions, stir-fry for about 30 seconds, add the broth mixture and stir-fry for 1 minute, or until the greens have wilted. Add the cilantro and stir-fry for another 30 seconds. Remove from the heat and serve with rice or noodles, red rice being my first choice. Yield: Serves 4 Advance preparation: This is all last-minute, though you can prep your ingredients well in advance and refrigerate. Nutritional information per serving: 197 calories; 8 grams fat; 1 gram saturated fat; 2 grams polyunsaturated fat; 3 grams monounsaturated fat; 107 milligrams cholesterol; 14 grams carbohydrates; 4 grams dietary fiber; 322 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 15 grams protein Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »