Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Strawberry Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes, plus at least 1 hour's refrigeration Trending Cauliflower Parmesan By Melissa Clark 1 hour 15 minutes Trending Salmon and Tomatoes in Foil By Mark Bittman 30 minutes Trending Noodle Bowl With Mushrooms, Spinach and Salmon By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes Trending Zucchini With Shallots By Pierre Franey About 15 minutes Trending Thick-and-Gooey Chocolate-Chip Cookies By Amanda Hesser 30 minutes Trending Home/Made Mushroom Lasagna By Sam Sifton 2 hours healthy Lettuce and Green Garlic Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Creamy Corn and Poblano Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours healthy Couscous With Chickpeas, Spinach and Mint By Martha Rose Shulman 25 minutes, 2 hours' simmer healthy Spring Rolls With Spinach, Mushrooms, Sesame, Rice and Herbs By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes healthy Chickpeas With Baby Spinach By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Strawberry Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes, plus at least 1 hour's refrigeration Trending Cauliflower Parmesan By Melissa Clark 1 hour 15 minutes Trending Salmon and Tomatoes in Foil By Mark Bittman 30 minutes Trending Noodle Bowl With Mushrooms, Spinach and Salmon By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes Trending Zucchini With Shallots By Pierre Franey About 15 minutes Trending Thick-and-Gooey Chocolate-Chip Cookies By Amanda Hesser 30 minutes Trending Home/Made Mushroom Lasagna By Sam Sifton 2 hours healthy Lettuce and Green Garlic Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Creamy Corn and Poblano Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours healthy Couscous With Chickpeas, Spinach and Mint By Martha Rose Shulman 25 minutes, 2 hours' simmer healthy Spring Rolls With Spinach, Mushrooms, Sesame, Rice and Herbs By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes healthy Chickpeas With Baby Spinach By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Strawberry Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes, plus at least 1 hour's refrigeration Trending Cauliflower Parmesan By Melissa Clark 1 hour 15 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   A simple peasant soup that is often served with toasted or fried bread doused with vinegar, pine nuts, hard-boiled egg and parsley added at the end, this is a filling and comforting soup that is still suitable for a late spring/early summer meal. 
Featured in: 
Soups With Spinach, Five Ways. 
   

Learn: How to Make Soup
 
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Vegan,
                    Dairy Free,
                    Gluten Free,
                    Spanish,
                    Chickpea,
                    Spinach
 By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours, plus soaking of the beans and farro By Melissa Clark 45 minutes By Mark Bittman 1 1/2 hours By Melissa Clark 1 1/2 to 2 hours By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/4 hours, plus 1 1/2 hours' cooling By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Samin Nosrat
         Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.