Advertisement By JOHN NOBLE WILFORDAUG. 8, 2012
 Long ago, at a pre-Columbian ritual center across the Mississippi River from present-day St. Louis, the home of Budweiser, people were heartily imbibing a caffeinated tealike beverage commonly known as “black drink.” The chemical residues found in their porous, unglazed ceramic mugs tell the tale. Early European explorers described the drinking practice throughout what is now the southeastern United States. Indian men consumed large portions of black drink brewed from toasted holly leaves and bark and boiled it in water. Then they would go off to vomit. Whether this was the effect of the drink or was self-induced is not clear; anyway, the practice was a ritual purification in preparation for important community undertakings like religious ceremonies, political councils or ballgames and war. For the first time, researchers have now found direct evidence that the use of black drink goes back as early as A.D. 1050 at what is now Cahokia, Ill., which was the largest known pre-Columbian site north of Mexico. The chemical analysis identified the primary ingredients of the Cahokia brew: caffeine, theobromine and ursolic acid. “Ursolic acide is the biomarker that tells us, yes, this was made from holly,” Patricia L. Crown, an anthropologist at the University of New Mexico, said in an interview. She was the lead author of a report published Monday in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. Advertisement Two holly species, Ilex vomitoria and Ilex cassine, have approximately the same chemical mix, although the researchers wrote that only I. vomitoria was used in the drink, “an argument bolstered by the considerably higher amount of caffeine” in it. The best-known caffeinated drink in the New World, still prevalent in parts of South America and Mesoamerica, is derived from the cacao tree.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Since the holly grew in coastal areas several hundred miles to the south, Dr. Crown said, the findings are strong evidence that a wide trading network existed among distant tribes and that ritual practices at Cahokia may have influenced their subsequent activities over a wide region. Traces of the beverage were tested in drinking cups dated until at least 1250. In its heyday, Cahokia, a city of about 250 earthen mounds, had an estimated 15,000 inhabitants who flocked there from up and down the Mississippi River Valley. The site was abandoned in the 1300s. Advertisement People in South America continue to make drinks from varieties of holly, the research team noted. As recently as the Civil War, Southerners were known to use the black drink as a pick-me-up, Dr. Crown said, and a few in South Carolina still like the holly caffeine’s energy charge. She said she had never tried the drink, not even under the pressure to finish the research paper. A version of this article appears in print on August 7, 2012, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: Ancient Energy Boost, Brewed From Toasted Leaves and Bark.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »