Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
SINDYA N. BHANOO

FEB. 20, 2012
 Four new species of chameleons, each just tens of millimeters in length, have been discovered on the island of Madagascar. They are among the smallest reptiles in the world. “On islands you find extremes,” said Frank Glaw, a reptile specialist at the Zoological State Collection of Munich, who reported the discovery. “You find very big species and very small species.” One new chameleon was found on Nosy Hara, an islet off the coast of Madagascar. Named Brookesia micra, it is the smallest of the four species. Juveniles are small enough to stand on the head of a match. All the chameleons are brown and generate a white stripe across their back when they are stressed. But though the lizards look very similar, genetic studies revealed that they are rather distinct. “They separated millions of years ago,” Dr. Glaw said. Advertisement At one time, islands like Madagascar also had giant animals, Dr. Glaw said. “They went extinct after humans arrived, but the small animals survived,” he said. “Big species are vulnerable because they need big habitats and they are hunted by humans.” Small species require relatively few resources and very little space.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Today, Dr. Glaw said, even small animals like the miniature chameleons face habitat destruction. But the chameleons do have the advantage of seeking out spots that humans might avoid. “They live small pockets of leaf litter in between limestone blocks,” Dr. Glaw said. “So maybe this is some kind protection for them.” Advertisement He and his colleagues reported their findings in the current issue of the journal PloS One. A version of this article appears in print on February 21, 2012, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: That’s Not a Crumb, It’s a Tiny Chameleon.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »