Advertisement By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN, M.D.JULY 1, 2013
 It is one of a doctor’s most important final acts in caring for a patient, even though the patient is no longer around to appreciate it. I refer, of course, to filling out the death certificate, a document that has myriad benefits for the living: establishing a legal basis for life insurance and estate settlements; providing critical information to survivors and descendants in an era of burgeoning advances in genetics; advancing knowledge about diseases, accidents and other causes of death; and much else. For all these reasons, the accuracy of the certificates should be a paramount concern for public health, both nationally and internationally. And that is why two recent studies of doctors in New York City teaching hospitals are so unsettling. The studies, published in the May issue of the journal Preventing Chronic Disease, support what researchers have long suspected: that heart disease is overreported as a cause of death, while diseases like pneumonia and cancer tend to be underreported. Equally disturbing, one of the studies suggests that the health system is far too cavalier about the accuracy of death certificates. Advertisement That study surveyed resident doctors in specialty training in 26 hospitals where about 40 percent of the city’s deaths occur. Of 521 respondents, 54 percent said they had knowingly reported what they believed was an inaccurate cause of death. Only one-third of the respondents believed that the system accurately documents the cause of death. Advertisement The reasons varied. Some doctors said they had never learned the proper procedures, or were too busy to fill out the documents correctly. Because of restrictions in duty hours, many resident doctors had to enter a cause even though they did not know the patients — they just assumed care through transfers at the end of work shifts. Some said data codes forced them to enter diagnoses that did not match their medical judgments: The electronic system rejected causes like sepsis from infection or acute respiratory distress syndrome, and hospital administrators instructed the doctors to certify another cause of death. Frustrated with the system and the time pressures, doctors may take the easy way out by “just putting something down that would be easily accepted,” an author of the study, Dr. Keith M. Rose of St. Luke’s-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan, said in an interview. Particularly disturbing is that most doctors said they had no formal training in filling out death certificates, either in medical school or in their residency programs. Since the study was conducted — in spring 2010, based on respondents’ experience in the preceding three years — the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene says it has been a national leader in improving the quality of death certificate information. In 2009 the department introduced a training program in eight hospitals that accounted for 10 percent of all deaths in New York City. The second study, which followed doctors in that program, dealt directly with the issue of overreporting heart disease as the cause of death, particularly among older patients. Heart disease is considered the nation’s leading killer, and doctors may list it by default without evaluating other possibilities. The practice tends to obscure the incidence of other serious ailments. A health department team led by Dr. Teeb Al-Samarrai found that heart disease dropped by 54 percent as a cause of death in the hospitals where the program was given, compared with a decrease of 6 percent or less in hospitals where it was not.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The educational effort also led to an increase in four other categories. Influenza and pneumonia almost tripled as causes of death — rising to 11 percent of certified deaths, from 4 percent. Chronic lower respiratory disease rose to 5 percent from 2 percent. Cerebrovascular disease, including strokes and aneurysms, rose to 4 percent from 2 percent. And cancer rose to 16 percent from 11 percent. Advertisement Documenting deaths is a local responsibility. North American colonists followed the European custom of churches’ being responsible for recording deaths, just as for christenings and marriages. In 1639, the Massachusetts Bay Colony transferred such registrations to the courts. Before 1900, the United States lagged behind European countries in developing a centralized death registration system. By 1910, the country had developed a standard model death certificate, Dr. Randy Hanzlick wrote in a 1996 history of death registration for The Journal of Forensic Sciences. Filling out a death certificate blends fact and professional judgment. That combination often makes it difficult to certify the precise cause, particularly among older patients who die with more than one ailment. Assigning one of the competing causes as the responsible one can be challenging. Occasionally, families may pressure doctors not to list suicide, AIDS or other health problems as the cause of death, perhaps because of stigma and perhaps because of restrictions in life insurance policies. A doctor’s role is to describe the chain of medical events or conditions leading to death, based on four categories. One is the immediate cause of death, the specific ailment that directly preceded it. The second is intermediate causes, those that created the immediate cause. The third is the underlying cause, the ailment that set off the chain of events. (“Cardiac arrest” is never acceptable as the underlying cause of death, because it is a tautology: The heart stops in every death, and cardiac arrest can result from hundreds of ailments.) Last, doctors are asked to list the patient’s other ailments, even though they did not cause death. The chain of causes is often long and complicated, and sometimes the starting point is not clear. For example, was the cause of a drowning the inability to swim? Being pushed or falling into water? A heart attack, abnormal heart rhythm or a stroke? Inebriation? The side effects of a prescribed or illicit drug? Or hot weather? In general, a government medical examiner must be informed in cases of criminal neglect or violence; drug and chemical overdose and poisoning; workplace accidents; sudden death when in apparent good health; a death in which no physician has cared for the patient in the preceding 31 days; and injuries like falls, among other causes. Eventually, the certified cause of death becomes part of a long statistical trail, from the local physician to city and state health officials, and then is listed among the official vital statistics of the United States.  And once in a while, an absurd entry, usually a result of miscoding — Alzheimer’s disease in a 2-year-old, prostate cancer in a woman, cervical cancer in a man — is caught and corrected. Dr. Barbara A. Wexelman, who conducted the study with Dr. Rose when she was a surgical resident in New York City, said she encountered some resistance from colleagues, who chided her for studying a subject they considered obscure and unimportant. Advertisement She had a ready comeback. “Death certificates are really important,” she says she told the skeptics. “We owe it to our patients to be able to accurately record why they die” — and thus, she went on, to “help the living.” A version of this article appears in print on July 2, 2013, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Making the Right Call, Even in Death.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »