Advertisement 
Global Health  By                     
 DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.
 
JULY 1, 2013
 Substandard tuberculosis drugs sold by pharmacies in poor countries are a growing public health threat, but the problem could be alleviated if governments enforced World Health Organization standards, a new study reports. At pharmacies in 17 countries, the authors bought 713 samples of two TB drugs, the antibiotics rifampin and isoniazid. Nine percent had no active ingredient or, worse, too little: An inadequate dose encourages the growth of drug-resistant TB strains while not curing the patient. The study, published online by PLoS Medicine, shows the failures in what should be a nearly perfect system for basic TB control, said Dr. Lucica Ditiu, executive secretary of the Stop TB Partnership. That partnership, which is affiliated with the W.H.O., supplies packaged, high-quality drugs at about $30 per box with a six-month supply. Poor countries get them free, middle-income countries pay on a sliding scale, and even the United States is negotiating to buy them to cover spot shortages, Dr. Ditiu said. Advertisement Ideally, said Amir Attaran, a drug-counterfeiting expert at the University of Ottawa and an author of the study, all countries would buy the partnership’s drugs and governments would ban sales of those drugs for other purposes. “But that’s not what happens,” Dr. Attaran said. Not all countries follow the W.H.O. regimen, not all doctors prescribe the drugs in it, “and in private pharmacies, all bets are off,” he added, since some will sell anything to any buyer, with or without a prescription. Advertisement Even poor countries like Rwanda have shown they can control TB by enforcing “pharmacovigilance,” the study said. Both Dr. Attaran and Dr. Ditiu cited India as a country that conspicuously fails to enforce it and so is facing a huge epidemic of multidrug-resistant TB. A version of this article appears in print on July 2, 2013, on Page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: Spurious TB Drugs Pose a Threat.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »