Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
DOUGLAS QUENQUA

JUNE 17, 2013
 A dim, lightweight galaxy on the outskirts of the Milky Way may be the smallest in the known universe, astronomers say. Known as Segue 2, the dwarf galaxy consists of just 1,000 stars held together by a clump of dark matter. (By comparison, the Milky Way contains at least 100 billion stars.) “Finding a galaxy this small is like finding an elephant smaller than a mouse,” said James Bullock, a cosmologist at the University of California, Irvine, and an author of a paper on Segue 2 published in The Astrophysical Journal. Segue 2, first discovered in 2009 as part of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey, is important for reasons other than size. Advertisement “For about 15 years, we have been predicting that galaxies like the Milky Way should be surrounded by thousands and thousands of low-mass clumps of dark matter” like the one at the center of Segue 2, Dr. Bullock said. Until now, even the smallest “clumps” detected by scientists were high mass — at least a million times the mass of the sun.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. At no more than 100,000 times the mass of the sun, Segue 2 “could be the first of these clumps detected that we’ve been predicting should be out there,” Dr. Bullock said. Until now, failure to find such clumps had puzzled astronomers. “It suggested there was some flaw in our theory of how the universe works,” said Dr. Bullock, who was part of a team that used the powerful telescopes at the W. M. Keck Observatory in Hawaii to study the galaxy. Advertisement With this discovery, he said, there is hope that “this might be just be the tip of the iceberg.”   A version of this article appears in print on June 18, 2013, on Page D6 of the New York edition with the headline: Astronomy: Dwarf Galaxy May Be Answer to Predictions.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »