Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu.  Baked Figs and Goat Cheese By David Tanis 25 minutes   Grilled Halloumi and Vegetables By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes easy Seared Belgian Endive With Walnut Gremolata By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Lemon Risotto with Summer Squash By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes  Spring Ramen Bowl With Snap Peas and Asparagus By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours  Brown Rice Bowls With Stewed Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes  Puréed Winter Squash and Red Lentil Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Marinated Goat Cheese By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes, plus several hours' steeping healthy Tomato and Goat Cheese Tart By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 10 minutes healthy Cauliflower Gratin With Goat Cheese Topping By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Spaghetti With Romano Beans, Black Pepper and Goat Cheese By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Smoked Salmon Sandwich With Goat Cheese By Martha Rose Shulman About 10 minutes  Baked Figs and Goat Cheese By David Tanis 25 minutes   Grilled Halloumi and Vegetables By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes easy Seared Belgian Endive With Walnut Gremolata By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Lemon Risotto with Summer Squash By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes  Spring Ramen Bowl With Snap Peas and Asparagus By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours  Brown Rice Bowls With Stewed Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes  Puréed Winter Squash and Red Lentil Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Marinated Goat Cheese By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes, plus several hours' steeping healthy Tomato and Goat Cheese Tart By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 10 minutes healthy Cauliflower Gratin With Goat Cheese Topping By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Spaghetti With Romano Beans, Black Pepper and Goat Cheese By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Smoked Salmon Sandwich With Goat Cheese By Martha Rose Shulman About 10 minutes  Baked Figs and Goat Cheese By David Tanis 25 minutes   Grilled Halloumi and Vegetables By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   A creamy goat cheese and cottage cheese blend provides satisfying and comforting flavor.  I use sumac to bump up the already satisfying and comforting flavor of the creamy goat cheese and cottage cheese blend that blankets cucumbers, celery and dill. My first choice for bread is pumpernickel, but black bread or whole wheat country bread are also good.   
Featured in: 
Building A Better Sandwich. 
   
Raw,
                    Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Kosher,
                    High Fiber,
                    Cottage Cheese,
                    Cucumber,
                    Goat Cheese
 By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus at least 5 hours' chilling By Melissa Clark 1 hour 30 minutes, plus cooling and chilling By Yotam Ottolenghi 1 1/2 hours, plus cooling By Yotam Ottolenghi 45 minutes By Samin Nosrat 20 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.