Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

SEPT. 27, 2011
 Just when I thought I would never find anything new to do with the two small summer squash that were lingering in my refrigerator I came across this dish in Paula Wolfert’s book “The Cooking of the Eastern Mediterranean.” A simple combination of cooked squash, drained yogurt, garlic and tahini, it’s another example of how you can make yogurt dips with just about any vegetable. 1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil 4 ounces summer squash, chopped (1 cup) Salt and freshly ground pepper to taste 1/2 teaspoon cumin seeds, lightly toasted and ground 1 tablespoon tahini, stirred until homogenous 1 garlic clove 2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice 1/2 cup thick Greek-style or drained yogurt Ground cumin for garnish 1. Heat the olive oil over medium heat in a small skillet and add the summer squash. Cook, stirring, until the squash is very soft and all of the liquid has evaporated from the pan. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Advertisement 2. Place the garlic in a mortar and pestle with a generous pinch of salt and mash to a purée. Add the cooked squash and mash to a rough purée. In a medium bowl, stir together the tahini, lemon juice, and a tablespoon of cold water until smooth. Add the yogurt and mix together. Stir in the squash and garlic and combine well. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Transfer to a serving dish and allow to sit for an hour or more before serving. Serve at room temperature, garnished with a sprinkling of ground cumin.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Yield: 1 scant cup, serving 4 to 6 as a spread or dip Advance preparation: This will keep for a day or two in the refrigerator but will become more pungent. Advertisement Nutritional information per serving (4 servings): 77 calories; 1 gram saturated fat; 1 gram polyunsaturated fat; 3 grams monounsaturated fat; 3 milligrams cholesterol; 4 grams carbohydrates; 1 gram dietary fiber; 18 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 2 grams protein Nutritional information per serving (6 servings): 51 calories; 1 gram saturated fat; 1 gram polyunsaturated fat; 2 grams monounsaturated fat; 2 milligrams cholesterol; 3 grams carbohydrates; 0 grams dietary fiber; 12 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 2 grams protein Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »