Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Chicken Bouillabaisse By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus overnight refrigeration  Spring Ramen Bowl With Snap Peas and Asparagus By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours  Lemon Risotto with Summer Squash By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes  Braised Halibut With Asparagus, Baby Potatoes and Saffron By Martha Rose Shulman 35 minutes healthy Pesto-Stuffed Portobello Burgers By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus marinating  Garlic Shrimp With Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes  Roasted Pepper and Goat Cheese Sandwich By Martha Rose Shulman 5 to 10 minutes healthy Egg Salad and Greens Wrap By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Chicken and Pepper Stew By Martha Rose Shulman 50 minutes healthy Vegetable Torta By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour, plus 40 minutes' soaking healthy Baby Artichoke Risotto By Martha Rose Shulman 50 minutes healthy Chicken Soup With Lime and Avocado By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Chicken Bouillabaisse By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus overnight refrigeration  Spring Ramen Bowl With Snap Peas and Asparagus By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours  Lemon Risotto with Summer Squash By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes  Braised Halibut With Asparagus, Baby Potatoes and Saffron By Martha Rose Shulman 35 minutes healthy Pesto-Stuffed Portobello Burgers By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus marinating  Garlic Shrimp With Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes  Roasted Pepper and Goat Cheese Sandwich By Martha Rose Shulman 5 to 10 minutes healthy Egg Salad and Greens Wrap By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Chicken and Pepper Stew By Martha Rose Shulman 50 minutes healthy Vegetable Torta By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour, plus 40 minutes' soaking healthy Baby Artichoke Risotto By Martha Rose Shulman 50 minutes healthy Chicken Soup With Lime and Avocado By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Chicken Bouillabaisse By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus overnight refrigeration  Spring Ramen Bowl With Snap Peas and Asparagus By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   Much of the pleasure of eating this wrap comes from the crunchy textures of the lettuce and the shredded vegetables. If you poach and shred a couple of chicken breasts at the beginning of the week, then these wraps are quickly thrown together. 
Featured in: 
Lunches For Picky Children. 
   
Healthy,
                    Dairy Free,
                    Kosher,
                    Low Sugar,
                    High Fiber,
                    Chicken,
                    Flour Tortilla
 By Martha Rose Shulman 1 3/4 hours By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus at least 5 hours' chilling By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/4 hours, plus 1 1/2 hours' cooling By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes By Margaux Laskey 1 hour By Alison Roman 45 minutes, plus chilling Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Samin Nosrat
         Cooking Guide 
          By Sam Sifton
         Cooking Guide 
          By Eric Asimov
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.