Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Guacamole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Brown Rice Bowls With Stewed Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes  Whole Wheat Pappardelle With Fava Purée By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours  Garlic Shrimp With Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Pesto-Stuffed Portobello Burgers By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus marinating easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking  Zucchini Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours healthy Red Lentil Kofta With Spinach By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Black Rice and Red Lentil Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Parsley Hummus By Martha Rose Shulman About 20 minutes healthy Lentil Tomato Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes healthy Bulgur and Lentil Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Guacamole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Brown Rice Bowls With Stewed Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes  Whole Wheat Pappardelle With Fava Purée By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours  Garlic Shrimp With Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Pesto-Stuffed Portobello Burgers By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus marinating easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking  Zucchini Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours healthy Red Lentil Kofta With Spinach By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Black Rice and Red Lentil Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Parsley Hummus By Martha Rose Shulman About 20 minutes healthy Lentil Tomato Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes healthy Bulgur and Lentil Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Guacamole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Brown Rice Bowls With Stewed Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes This spicy salad is one of my favorite lentil preparations. The trick is not to overcook the lentils, which should be al dente. 
Featured in: 
The Unlikely Staples Of Summer. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Vegan,
                    Dairy Free,
                    Gluten Free,
                    Middle Eastern,
                    Lentil
 By Julia Moskin 15 minutes By Tejal Rao 15 minutes, plus chilling By David Tanis 2 hours By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes By David Leite 45 minutes, plus chilling By Julia Moskin 25 minutes By Mark Bittman 30 minutes By Alison Roman 45 minutes, plus chilling Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Sam Sifton
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.