Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Granola Bars With Chocolate By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes  Pineapple and Millet Smoothie By Martha Rose Shulman Time: 5-10 minutes  Seared Grapefruit With Ginger Maple Syrup By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes  Grits Rancheras By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour plus an overnight soak for the grits  Kasha By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes (includes resting time after cooking) for cracked kasha, 1 hour for whole kasha  Deep Purple Blueberry Smoothie With Black Quinoa By Martha Rose Shulman 5 to 10 minutes  Crepes With Raspberry-Cassis Sauce By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour, plus 30 minutes’ resting easy Granola Muffins By Nigella Lawson 30 minutes  Coconut Ginger Chicken By Mark Bittman 30 minutes easy Coconut-Nut Macaroons By Mark Bittman 30 minutes healthy Granola Muffins By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes healthy Flax and Mixed Grains Granola By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Granola Bars With Chocolate By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes  Pineapple and Millet Smoothie By Martha Rose Shulman Time: 5-10 minutes  Seared Grapefruit With Ginger Maple Syrup By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes  Grits Rancheras By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour plus an overnight soak for the grits  Kasha By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes (includes resting time after cooking) for cracked kasha, 1 hour for whole kasha  Deep Purple Blueberry Smoothie With Black Quinoa By Martha Rose Shulman 5 to 10 minutes  Crepes With Raspberry-Cassis Sauce By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour, plus 30 minutes’ resting easy Granola Muffins By Nigella Lawson 30 minutes  Coconut Ginger Chicken By Mark Bittman 30 minutes easy Coconut-Nut Macaroons By Mark Bittman 30 minutes healthy Granola Muffins By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes healthy Flax and Mixed Grains Granola By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Granola Bars With Chocolate By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes  Pineapple and Millet Smoothie By Martha Rose Shulman Time: 5-10 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   These are crunchy and a little bit sticky. If you are vegan you can substitute agave syrup for the honey. 
Featured in: 
Substantial Pastries For Busy Teenagers. 
   
Healthy
 By Julia Moskin 15 minutes By Melissa Clark 30 minutes, plus cooling By Mark Bittman 20 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman About 5 minutes By Mark Bittman 20 minutes By Melissa Clark 25 minutes, plus at least 4 hours’ curing By Jeff Gordinier 35 minutes By Tejal Rao 1 1/2 hours Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Robert Simonson
         Cooking Guide 
          By Florence Fabricant
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.