Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Cucumber, Melon and Watermelon Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 2 minutes easy Roasted Red Pepper Filled With Tuna By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy Provençal Greens Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes easy Tomato Salad With Red Beans By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Stuffed Peppers With Red Rice, Chard and Feta By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Berry Coconut Almond Smoothie By Martha Rose Shulman 3 minutes healthy Frittata With Red Peppers and Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour  Blue Crab And Melon Soup With Nori Crème Fraîche By Matt Lee And Ted Lee 45 minutes  Spicy Sautéed Fuzzy Melon By Merrill Stubbs 15 minutes  Melon Soup By Mark Bittman 10 minutes, plus 2 hours' refrigeration healthy Melon Sorbet By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 4 hours 30 minutes' freezing and refrigeration healthy Melon, Cucumber and Tomato Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes, plus 2 hours' refrigeration healthy Cucumber, Melon and Watermelon Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 2 minutes easy Roasted Red Pepper Filled With Tuna By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy Provençal Greens Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes easy Tomato Salad With Red Beans By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Stuffed Peppers With Red Rice, Chard and Feta By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Berry Coconut Almond Smoothie By Martha Rose Shulman 3 minutes healthy Frittata With Red Peppers and Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour  Blue Crab And Melon Soup With Nori Crème Fraîche By Matt Lee And Ted Lee 45 minutes  Spicy Sautéed Fuzzy Melon By Merrill Stubbs 15 minutes  Melon Soup By Mark Bittman 10 minutes, plus 2 hours' refrigeration healthy Melon Sorbet By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 4 hours 30 minutes' freezing and refrigeration healthy Melon, Cucumber and Tomato Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes, plus 2 hours' refrigeration healthy Cucumber, Melon and Watermelon Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 2 minutes easy Roasted Red Pepper Filled With Tuna By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   Reserve melons that are so ripe, sweet and juicy that they practically fall apart when you cut them for this soup, which is inspired by a recipe by Deborah Madison. Smell the melons when you shop for them at the market; they should make you want to close your eyes and drink in their fragrance. If they’re not really sweet, the soup will be bland. Both cantaloupe and honeydew are great sources of potassium and vitamin A. 
Featured in: 
The Fruits Of Summer, Sip By Sip. 
   

Learn: How to Make Soup
 
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Gluten Free,
                    Buttermilk,
                    Melon
 By Melissa Clark 45 minutes By Tara Parker-Pope About 2 hours By Florence Fabricant 1 hour By Jennifer Steinhauer 1 hour By Mark Bittman 20 minutes By Melissa Clark 1 hour plus cooling By Pete Wells 40 minutes By Alison Roman 30 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Samin Nosrat
         Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Sam Sifton
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.