Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Cooked Tomatillo Salsa By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes Trending Thin-and-Crisp Chocolate-Chip Cookies By Amanda Hesser 30 minutes Trending Cauliflower Parmesan By Melissa Clark 1 hour 15 minutes Trending Salty Peanut Chocolate Chip Cookies By Nigella Lawson 50 minutes Trending Lemon-Almond Butter Cake By Regina Schrambling 2 hours 30 minutes, plus cooling time Trending Israeli Couscous, Eggplant and Tomato Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes (including 30 minutes baking and 10 to 15 minutes resting after baking) Trending The Greenest Green Salad By Samin Nosrat 20 minutes healthy Cornmeal and Oatmeal Polenta With Tomato Sauce and Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours healthy Polenta With Zucchini and Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Polenta With Mushrooms, Favas and Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes healthy Polenta With Parmesan and Tomato Sauce By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Carrot Purée By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Cooked Tomatillo Salsa By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes Trending Thin-and-Crisp Chocolate-Chip Cookies By Amanda Hesser 30 minutes Trending Cauliflower Parmesan By Melissa Clark 1 hour 15 minutes Trending Salty Peanut Chocolate Chip Cookies By Nigella Lawson 50 minutes Trending Lemon-Almond Butter Cake By Regina Schrambling 2 hours 30 minutes, plus cooling time Trending Israeli Couscous, Eggplant and Tomato Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes (including 30 minutes baking and 10 to 15 minutes resting after baking) Trending The Greenest Green Salad By Samin Nosrat 20 minutes healthy Cornmeal and Oatmeal Polenta With Tomato Sauce and Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours healthy Polenta With Zucchini and Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Polenta With Mushrooms, Favas and Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes healthy Polenta With Parmesan and Tomato Sauce By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Carrot Purée By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Cooked Tomatillo Salsa By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes Trending Thin-and-Crisp Chocolate-Chip Cookies By Amanda Hesser 30 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   Grilled polenta makes a great side dish if you’re grilling meat or fish; it’s also a perfect solution for vegetarians at your barbecue. Squares of polenta are best if they’re thick, so the basic polenta recipe is increased by half and the polenta is cooked for a longer time. 
Featured in: 
An Elegant Gruel: Polenta. 
   

Learn: How to Grill 
 
Gluten Free,
                    Halal,
                    Healthy,
                    Kosher,
                    Low Cholesterol,
                    Italian,
                    Polenta
 By Melissa Clark 1 1/2 hours, plus at least 2 hours to chill By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes By Mark Bittman 1 hour By Sam Sifton 30 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/4 hours, plus 1 1/2 hours' cooling By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour, plus 4 hours' marinating By Martha Rose Shulman 1 3/4 hours By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour Cooking Guide 
          By Sam Sifton
         Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Julia Moskin
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.