Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. easy Buttered Snow Peas By Pierre Franey 10 minutes  Garlic Shrimp With Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes  Lemon Risotto with Summer Squash By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes  Spring Ramen Bowl With Snap Peas and Asparagus By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours  Brown Rice Bowls With Stewed Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes  Apple and Swiss Chard Pie By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus resting  Zucchini Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours easy Stir-Fried Shrimp With Snow Peas and Ginger By Julia Moskin 30 minutes  Snow Pea Salad By Florence Fabricant 45 minutes healthy Stir-Fried Snow Peas With Soba By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Chinese Fried Rice With Shrimp and Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy Shrimp Risotto With Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes easy Buttered Snow Peas By Pierre Franey 10 minutes  Garlic Shrimp With Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes  Lemon Risotto with Summer Squash By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes  Spring Ramen Bowl With Snap Peas and Asparagus By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours  Brown Rice Bowls With Stewed Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes  Apple and Swiss Chard Pie By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus resting  Zucchini Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours easy Stir-Fried Shrimp With Snow Peas and Ginger By Julia Moskin 30 minutes  Snow Pea Salad By Florence Fabricant 45 minutes healthy Stir-Fried Snow Peas With Soba By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Chinese Fried Rice With Shrimp and Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy Shrimp Risotto With Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes easy Buttered Snow Peas By Pierre Franey 10 minutes  Garlic Shrimp With Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   This is not unlike the shrimp with snow peas you get in many Cantonese restaurants. But there are more vegetables in this version. 
Featured in: 
Late Summer Stir Fries. 
   
Healthy,
                    Dairy Free,
                    Gluten Free,
                    Nut Free,
                    Asian,
                    Shrimp,
                    Snow Pea
 By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/4 hours, plus 1 1/2 hours' cooling By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes By Amanda Hesser 3 hours 30 minutes, plus overnight soaking of ginger By Melissa Clark 1 hour 20 minutes By Melissa Clark 45 minutes By The New York Times 50 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Florence Fabricant
         Cooking Guide 
          By Sam Sifton
         Cooking Guide 
          By Tejal Rao
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.