Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Coconut Dukkah By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes Trending Israeli Couscous, Eggplant and Tomato Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes (including 30 minutes baking and 10 to 15 minutes resting after baking) Trending Chocolate Cupcakes for Almost Everybody By Pete Wells 40 minutes Trending Salmon and Tomatoes in Foil By Mark Bittman 30 minutes Trending Zucchini Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours Trending Cauliflower Parmesan By Melissa Clark 1 hour 15 minutes Trending Basic Pesto By Florence Fabricant 15 minutes healthy Parsley Hummus By Martha Rose Shulman About 20 minutes healthy Grilled Fish With Salsa Verde By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Pickled Broccoli Stems By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus overnight refrigeration healthy Carrot Purée By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Mediterranean Lentil Purée By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Coconut Dukkah By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes Trending Israeli Couscous, Eggplant and Tomato Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes (including 30 minutes baking and 10 to 15 minutes resting after baking) Trending Chocolate Cupcakes for Almost Everybody By Pete Wells 40 minutes Trending Salmon and Tomatoes in Foil By Mark Bittman 30 minutes Trending Zucchini Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours Trending Cauliflower Parmesan By Melissa Clark 1 hour 15 minutes Trending Basic Pesto By Florence Fabricant 15 minutes healthy Parsley Hummus By Martha Rose Shulman About 20 minutes healthy Grilled Fish With Salsa Verde By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Pickled Broccoli Stems By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus overnight refrigeration healthy Carrot Purée By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Mediterranean Lentil Purée By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Coconut Dukkah By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes Trending Israeli Couscous, Eggplant and Tomato Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes (including 30 minutes baking and 10 to 15 minutes resting after baking) 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   Mexican salsa verde usually is made with tomatillos, not green tomatoes. (Tomatillos are in the same family as green tomatoes, but more closely related to the gooseberry.) But this version is a beautiful and delicious salsa, even without tomatillos. 
Featured in: 
When Red Tomatoes Are Scarce, Go Green. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Vegan,
                    Dairy Free,
                    Gluten Free,
                    Latin American,
                    Green Tomato,
                    Jalapeno
 By Melissa Clark 45 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman The pickled tomatoes will keep for 2 months in the refrigerator. By Melissa Clark 30 minutes By Matt Lee And Ted Lee 45 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By David Tanis
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Sam Sifton
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.