Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Potato and Pesto Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour easy Poached Rhubarb By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Endive Salad With Blue Cheese Dressing By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy Asian Red Cabbage and Walnut Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Pesto-Stuffed Portobello Burgers By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus marinating  Grilled Figs With Pomegranate Molasses By Martha Rose Shulman 15 to 30 minutes, depending on how many figs you grill at one time easy Seared Belgian Endive With Walnut Gremolata By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Arborio and Red Rice Risotto With Baby Broccoli and Red Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 45 minutes healthy Pickled Broccoli Stems By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus overnight refrigeration healthy Pasta With Walnut Sauce and Broccoli Raab By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Fettuccine With Braised Mushrooms and Baby Broccoli By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 45 minutes healthy Risotto With Broccoli By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Potato and Pesto Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour easy Poached Rhubarb By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Endive Salad With Blue Cheese Dressing By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy Asian Red Cabbage and Walnut Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Pesto-Stuffed Portobello Burgers By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus marinating  Grilled Figs With Pomegranate Molasses By Martha Rose Shulman 15 to 30 minutes, depending on how many figs you grill at one time easy Seared Belgian Endive With Walnut Gremolata By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Arborio and Red Rice Risotto With Baby Broccoli and Red Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 45 minutes healthy Pickled Broccoli Stems By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus overnight refrigeration healthy Pasta With Walnut Sauce and Broccoli Raab By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Fettuccine With Braised Mushrooms and Baby Broccoli By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 45 minutes healthy Risotto With Broccoli By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Potato and Pesto Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour easy Poached Rhubarb By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   You can use this bright mixture as a dip, a spread or a sauce with pasta. 
Featured in: 
A Surfeit Of Pesto. 
   

Learn: How to Make Pasta
 
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Gluten Free,
                    Low Cholesterol,
                    Low Sodium,
                    Basil,
                    Broccoli,
                    Parmesan
 By The New York Times 1 hour By Julia Moskin about 2 hours By Samin Nosrat 20 minutes By Julia Moskin 25 minutes By Amanda Hesser 30 minutes By Melissa Clark 10 minutes, plus marinating By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours By Tejal Rao 1 1/2 hours Cooking Guide 
          By Samin Nosrat
         Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Samin Nosrat
         Cooking Guide Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.