Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

JULY 27, 2011
 Stracciatella is like an Italian egg drop soup. This particular version is adapted from one of my favorite cookbooks, "Cooking From an Italian Garden," by Jon Cohen and Paola Scaravelli. I’d never seen a stracciatella with tomatoes until I came across this recipe. 1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil 3 to 4 plump garlic cloves, minced 1 14-ounce can chopped tomatoes, or 1 1/2 cups grated tomatoes Salt to taste 1 basil sprig 2 quarts vegetable broth or chicken stock 4 eggs 1/4 cup bread crumbs or semolina 6 tablespoons freshly grated Parmesan 2 tablespoons finely chopped parsley 2 tablespoons finely chopped basil or chives Advertisement Freshly ground pepper Optional: Cooked soup pasta for serving 1. Heat the olive oil over medium heat in a large, heavy soup pot or Dutch oven. Add the garlic. Stir until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Add the tomatoes and basil sprig. Cook, stirring, until the tomatoes have cooked down slightly and smell fragrant, about 10 minutes. Season to taste, and add the vegetable or chicken stock. Bring to a simmer, cover and simmer 20 minutes. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Advertisement 2. In a large mixing bowl, beat together the eggs, bread crumbs or semolina, Parmesan, parsley and basil or chives. Beat until frothy.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 3. Bring the soup to a boil, and slowly drizzle in a thin stream of the egg mixture, stirring constantly. After the mixture has been added, reduce the heat and simmer five minutes. Taste and adjust seasonings. Add a spoonful of cooked soup pasta to the bowl if desired. Yield: Serves six. Advance preparation: You can make this through Step 1 up to a day ahead of serving and refrigerate it. Bring it back to a simmer, and proceed with Step 2. Nutritional information per serving: 125 calories; 2 grams saturated fat; 1 gram polyunsaturated fat; 3 grams monounsaturated fat; 128 milligrams cholesterol; 7 grams carbohydrates; 1 gram dietary fiber; 173 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 8 grams protein Martha Rose Shulman is the author of "The Very Best of Recipes for Health."  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »