Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Stir-Fried Noodles With Tofu and Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes healthy Pesto-Stuffed Portobello Burgers By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus marinating  Spring Ramen Bowl With Snap Peas and Asparagus By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours  Puréed Winter Squash and Red Lentil Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking  Greens and Chayote Enchiladas With Salsa Verde By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours  Apple and Swiss Chard Pie By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus resting healthy Spicy Stir-Fried Tofu With Kale and Red Pepper By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Stir-Fried Lettuce With Seared Tofu and Red Pepper By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy Stir-Fried Rainbow Peppers, Eggplant and Tofu By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes  Cedar-Roasted Carrots With Tofu and Carrot Pesto By Florence Fabricant 1 hour healthy Stir-Fried Tofu, Red Cabbage and Winter Squash By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes healthy Stir-Fried Noodles With Tofu and Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes healthy Pesto-Stuffed Portobello Burgers By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus marinating  Spring Ramen Bowl With Snap Peas and Asparagus By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours  Puréed Winter Squash and Red Lentil Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking  Greens and Chayote Enchiladas With Salsa Verde By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours  Apple and Swiss Chard Pie By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus resting healthy Spicy Stir-Fried Tofu With Kale and Red Pepper By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Stir-Fried Lettuce With Seared Tofu and Red Pepper By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy Stir-Fried Rainbow Peppers, Eggplant and Tofu By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes  Cedar-Roasted Carrots With Tofu and Carrot Pesto By Florence Fabricant 1 hour healthy Stir-Fried Tofu, Red Cabbage and Winter Squash By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes healthy Stir-Fried Noodles With Tofu and Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes healthy Pesto-Stuffed Portobello Burgers By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus marinating 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   Make sure to cut the carrots and red peppers into the same size julienne (julienne are thin strips) so that they cook at the same rate. Both of these vegetables keep well in the refrigerator, so this should be a dish you can pull together easily. 
Featured in: 
End Of Summer Stir Fries. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Vegan,
                    Gluten Free,
                    Asian,
                    Carrot,
                    Red Pepper,
                    Tofu
 By David Tanis 30 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 6 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 7 to 8 minutes By Jacques Pepin 30 minutes By Mark Bittman 1 hour By Melissa Clark 45 minutes By Melissa Clark 45 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Samin Nosrat
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.