Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Strawberry Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes, plus at least 1 hour's refrigeration  Peter Reinhart’s Whole Wheat Bagels By Martha Rose Shulman 4 to 4 1/2 hours (About 1 hour active working)  Pineapple and Millet Smoothie By Martha Rose Shulman Time: 5-10 minutes easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Date Smoothie With Brown Rice and Almond Milk By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Whole Wheat Sesame Rings (Simit) By Martha Rose Shulman About 5 hours (30 minutes active work)  Kasha By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes (includes resting time after cooking) for cracked kasha, 1 hour for whole kasha healthy Couscous With Turnips and Sweet Potatoes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Couscous With Tomatoes, White Beans, Squash and Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 3 hours 30 minutes healthy Couscous With Chickpeas, Spinach and Mint By Martha Rose Shulman 25 minutes, 2 hours' simmer healthy Couscous With Tomatoes, Okra and Chickpeas By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, 2 1/4 hours' simmer healthy Couscous With Tomatoes, Cauliflower, Red Peppers and Olives By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, 2 hours' simmer healthy Strawberry Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes, plus at least 1 hour's refrigeration  Peter Reinhart’s Whole Wheat Bagels By Martha Rose Shulman 4 to 4 1/2 hours (About 1 hour active working)  Pineapple and Millet Smoothie By Martha Rose Shulman Time: 5-10 minutes easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Date Smoothie With Brown Rice and Almond Milk By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Whole Wheat Sesame Rings (Simit) By Martha Rose Shulman About 5 hours (30 minutes active work)  Kasha By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes (includes resting time after cooking) for cracked kasha, 1 hour for whole kasha healthy Couscous With Turnips and Sweet Potatoes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Couscous With Tomatoes, White Beans, Squash and Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 3 hours 30 minutes healthy Couscous With Chickpeas, Spinach and Mint By Martha Rose Shulman 25 minutes, 2 hours' simmer healthy Couscous With Tomatoes, Okra and Chickpeas By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, 2 1/4 hours' simmer healthy Couscous With Tomatoes, Cauliflower, Red Peppers and Olives By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, 2 hours' simmer healthy Strawberry Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes, plus at least 1 hour's refrigeration  Peter Reinhart’s Whole Wheat Bagels By Martha Rose Shulman 4 to 4 1/2 hours (About 1 hour active working) 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   This is a delicious way to enjoy couscous. You can reconstitute the couscous the night before and keep it in the refrigerator overnight. All it will need in the morning is a steam in the microwave and the addition of the oranges. 
Featured in: 
Breakfasts Rich With Grains. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Vegan,
                    Dairy Free,
                    Kosher,
                    Couscous,
                    Date,
                    Orange
 By Julia Moskin 90 minutes By Yotam Ottolenghi 45 minutes By Julia Moskin About 3 hours By Julia Moskin 15 minutes By Florence Fabricant 15 minutes By Jacques Pepin 30 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour By Melissa Clark 25 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Julia Moskin
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.