Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Risotto With Winter Squash and Collard Greens By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours Trending Basic Pesto By Florence Fabricant 15 minutes Trending Slow-Baked Beans With Kale By Martha Rose Shulman 3 hours 45 minutes Trending Cumin-Roasted Salmon With Cilantro Sauce By Alison Roman 30 minutes Trending Salted Tahini Chocolate Chip Cookies By Julia Moskin 45 minutes, plus 12 hours' refrigeration Trending Pan-Roasted Salmon With Jalapeño By Sam Sifton 15 minutes Trending Jonathan Waxman’s Roast Chicken By Glenn Collins About 45 minutes healthy Puréed Winter Squash Soup With Ginger By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes healthy Balsamic Roasted Winter Squash and Wild Rice Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours healthy Swiss Chard Stalk and Tahini Dip By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Roasted Cauliflower With Tahini-Parsley Sauce By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Tomato Salad With Turkish Tahini Dressing By Martha Rose Shulman About 10 minutes healthy Risotto With Winter Squash and Collard Greens By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours Trending Basic Pesto By Florence Fabricant 15 minutes Trending Slow-Baked Beans With Kale By Martha Rose Shulman 3 hours 45 minutes Trending Cumin-Roasted Salmon With Cilantro Sauce By Alison Roman 30 minutes Trending Salted Tahini Chocolate Chip Cookies By Julia Moskin 45 minutes, plus 12 hours' refrigeration Trending Pan-Roasted Salmon With Jalapeño By Sam Sifton 15 minutes Trending Jonathan Waxman’s Roast Chicken By Glenn Collins About 45 minutes healthy Puréed Winter Squash Soup With Ginger By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes healthy Balsamic Roasted Winter Squash and Wild Rice Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours healthy Swiss Chard Stalk and Tahini Dip By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Roasted Cauliflower With Tahini-Parsley Sauce By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Tomato Salad With Turkish Tahini Dressing By Martha Rose Shulman About 10 minutes healthy Risotto With Winter Squash and Collard Greens By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours Trending Basic Pesto By Florence Fabricant 15 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   This popular appetizer from the Middle East is a sort of sweet-tasting hummus, in which winter squash substitutes for chickpeas. This recipe is an adaptation of one by the cookbook author Clifford A. Wright. 
Featured in: 
Tahini: The Taste Of Healthy Middle Eastern Cuisine. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Vegan,
                    Dairy Free,
                    Gluten Free,
                    Middle Eastern,
                    Tahini,
                    Winter Squash
 By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour, plus 4 hours' marinating By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes By Barbara Whitaker 45 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, less if using microwave to heat tortillas By Regina Schrambling 2 hours 30 minutes, plus cooling time By Margaux Laskey 1 hour Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Julia Moskin
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.