Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Gluten-Free Pumpkin Pie By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes  Grilled Watermelon and Feta Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Grilled Vanilla-Ginger Pineapple By Martha Rose Shulman 25 minutes healthy Asian Red Cabbage and Walnut Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Berry Coconut Almond Smoothie By Martha Rose Shulman 3 minutes easy Tomato Salad With Red Beans By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes easy Roasted Red Pepper Filled With Tuna By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy Sweet Potato Soup With Ginger, Leek and Apple By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 10 minutes healthy Sweet Potato and Apple Kugel By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes healthy Pumpkin Caramel Mousse By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes, plus at least 2 hours' refrigeration healthy Sweet and Sour Winter Squash By Martha Rose Shulman About 40 minutes healthy Oven Fries By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Gluten-Free Pumpkin Pie By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes  Grilled Watermelon and Feta Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Grilled Vanilla-Ginger Pineapple By Martha Rose Shulman 25 minutes healthy Asian Red Cabbage and Walnut Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Berry Coconut Almond Smoothie By Martha Rose Shulman 3 minutes easy Tomato Salad With Red Beans By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes easy Roasted Red Pepper Filled With Tuna By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy Sweet Potato Soup With Ginger, Leek and Apple By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 10 minutes healthy Sweet Potato and Apple Kugel By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes healthy Pumpkin Caramel Mousse By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes, plus at least 2 hours' refrigeration healthy Sweet and Sour Winter Squash By Martha Rose Shulman About 40 minutes healthy Oven Fries By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Gluten-Free Pumpkin Pie By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes  Grilled Watermelon and Feta Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   This mixture of sweet potatoes, savory pumpkin and tart apples is a variation on my sweet potato puree with apples. For the best flavor, I suggest you make it a day ahead. 
Featured in: 
Healthy Thanksgiving Favorites. 
   

Learn: How to Cook Potatoes
 
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Gluten Free,
                    Kosher,
                    Low Cholesterol,
                    Pumpkin,
                    Sweet Potato
 By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours By Elaine Louie 1  hour By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes By Melissa Clark About 2 hours, plus 1 1/2 hours’ chilling By Mark Bittman 20 minutes By Melissa Clark 1 hour 20 minutes By Julia Moskin 1 hour, plus cooling By Florence Fabricant 20 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Julia Moskin
         Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Samin Nosrat
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.