Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Couscous With Tomatoes, Cauliflower, Red Peppers and Olives By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, 2 hours' simmer easy Seared Belgian Endive With Walnut Gremolata By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Gingered Winter Fruit Ambrosia By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour healthy Creamy Pasta By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes easy Stewed Romano Beans With Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman About 35 minutes easy Poached Rhubarb By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes easy Quick Pickles By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes healthy Curried Cauliflower Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Cauliflower and Red Onion Tacos By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes healthy Cauliflower, Brussels Sprouts and Red Beans With Lemon and Mustard By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Greek Chicken Stew With Cauliflower and Olives By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Red Quinoa, Cauliflower and Fava Bean Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Couscous With Tomatoes, Cauliflower, Red Peppers and Olives By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, 2 hours' simmer easy Seared Belgian Endive With Walnut Gremolata By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Gingered Winter Fruit Ambrosia By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour healthy Creamy Pasta By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes easy Stewed Romano Beans With Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman About 35 minutes easy Poached Rhubarb By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes easy Quick Pickles By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes healthy Curried Cauliflower Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Cauliflower and Red Onion Tacos By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes healthy Cauliflower, Brussels Sprouts and Red Beans With Lemon and Mustard By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Greek Chicken Stew With Cauliflower and Olives By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Red Quinoa, Cauliflower and Fava Bean Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Couscous With Tomatoes, Cauliflower, Red Peppers and Olives By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, 2 hours' simmer easy Seared Belgian Endive With Walnut Gremolata By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   The authentic version of this Greek vegetable dish calls for twice as much olive oil. I like the combination of kalamata olives, cauliflower and tomatoes. Serve it with whole grains, such as spelt, bulgur or barley. 
Featured in: 
Vegetarian Dishes From A Greek Holiday. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Vegan,
                    Dairy Free,
                    Gluten Free,
                    Greek,
                    Cauliflower,
                    Red Onion,
                    Tomato
 By Julia Moskin About 2 hours By David Tanis 30 minutes By Julia Moskin About 1 hour 15 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes By Marian Burros 35 minutes By Melissa Clark 45 minutes By Jeff Gordinier 45 minutes By Margaux Laskey 1 hour Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Florence Fabricant
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.