Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Perciatelli With Broccoli, Tomatoes and Anchovies By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour  Braised Halibut With Asparagus, Baby Potatoes and Saffron By Martha Rose Shulman 35 minutes healthy Pesto-Stuffed Portobello Burgers By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus marinating healthy Provençal Greens Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes  Chicken Tagine With Rhubarb By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes  Brown Rice Bowls With Stewed Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes  Whole Wheat Pappardelle With Fava Purée By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours healthy Soba With Green Garlic, Spinach, Edamame and Crispy Tofu By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Stir-Fried Snow Peas With Soba By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Stir-Fried Winter Squash and Tofu With Soba By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Fettuccine With Braised Mushrooms and Baby Broccoli By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 45 minutes healthy Soba Noodles in Broth With Spinach and Shiitakes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Perciatelli With Broccoli, Tomatoes and Anchovies By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour  Braised Halibut With Asparagus, Baby Potatoes and Saffron By Martha Rose Shulman 35 minutes healthy Pesto-Stuffed Portobello Burgers By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus marinating healthy Provençal Greens Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes  Chicken Tagine With Rhubarb By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes  Brown Rice Bowls With Stewed Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes  Whole Wheat Pappardelle With Fava Purée By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours healthy Soba With Green Garlic, Spinach, Edamame and Crispy Tofu By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Stir-Fried Snow Peas With Soba By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Stir-Fried Winter Squash and Tofu With Soba By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Fettuccine With Braised Mushrooms and Baby Broccoli By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 45 minutes healthy Soba Noodles in Broth With Spinach and Shiitakes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Perciatelli With Broccoli, Tomatoes and Anchovies By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour  Braised Halibut With Asparagus, Baby Potatoes and Saffron By Martha Rose Shulman 35 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   I like to use soba — buckwheat pasta — for this dish. Soba has a nutty flavor and contributes a measure of all-important whole grain to the dish. 
Featured in: 
Broccoli Takes Center Stage. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Vegan,
                    Dairy Free,
                    Kosher,
                    Asian,
                    Broccoli,
                    Shiitake,
                    Soba Noodle
 By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 45 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour By Mark Bittman 35 to 45 minutes with cooked beans By Melissa Clark 1 hour 15 minutes By Florence Fabricant 20 minutes By Yotam Ottolenghi 45 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Sam Sifton
         Cooking Guide 
          By Julia Moskin
         Cooking Guide 
          By Florence Fabricant
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.