Advertisement By CORNELIA DEANMARCH 26, 2012
 In the 17th, 18th and early 19th centuries, when natural history was still called philosophy and most naturalists were amateurs, collectors would create what they called cabinets of curiosities — accumulations of animal, vegetable, mineral and anthropological specimens to amaze and amuse. Often these collections grew large enough to occupy entire rooms, or even buildings. In some cases, they turned out to be precursors of modern museums. In a way, that was the kind of project seven Philadelphia men embarked on in 1812, when they rented premises over a millinery shop, gathered a few preserved insects, some seashells and not much more, and created the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. Today, the academy is the oldest natural history museum in the Western Hemisphere and one of the largest in the world. Last year, it merged with another Philadelphia institution of note to form the Academy of Natural Sciences of Drexel University. To mark its 200th anniversary, it has produced cabinets of curiosities of a different kind: a museum exhibition and book. Advertisement  The exhibition, which opened last weekend, takes visitors along with academy scientists as they search for new species and study humanity’s collective impact on the environment. The book embraces a larger agenda. Advertisement To wander through “A Glorious Enterprise: The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and the Making of American Science” is to absorb the 19th century’s passion for botany and zoology; the 20th century’s mania for exploration of distant, difficult or desolate places; and present-day preoccupations, particularly environmental issues like water quality.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Here are “gentlemen of science,” in brass-buttoned uniforms, embarking from Pittsburgh by steamboat to explore the Ohio, Mississippi and Missouri Rivers. (James Fenimore Cooper parodied the species in his book “The Prairie.”) Here is Robert E. Peary, setting off to explore Greenland. And here is Ernest Hemingway, volunteering in 1934 to help augment the academy’s collection of fish specimens. Cuba would be a good base, he wrote to the Academy, not just because Havana was more pleasant than Philadelphia, but also because it was where he was staying when he caught a nine-foot sailfish — the largest landed in the Atlantic, he said. Soon academy collectors were ensconced in a Havana hotel, making daily fishing expeditions with their new host. All of these tales are fascinating, but the book’s true fascination comes in its color photographs and illustrations, scores of them. We see naturalists in the field, the tools they used and the specimens they returned — legions of stuffed birds, minerals, mushrooms and insects. An Academy founder, Thomas Say, is credited as the father of American entomology. There is even an array of human skulls. There are a few difficulties. One is the book’s size. At 10 by 12 by 2 inches and weighing about five pounds, it is portable, but only just. Its prose is more scholarly than lively. And if you take its title seriously, you will be disappointed; the book does not deal in depth with American science as an institution — whole realms like physics, medicine and chemistry are more or less left out. Still, the story of the Academy of Natural Sciences engrosses. Its collections, sampled here, are valuable, and the attitude of its founders — that satisfying one’s curiosity about the natural world is celebratory activity — is refreshing. At the academy’s founding, the seven new academicians noted that its premises would be a wholesome alternative to the city’s taverns, dancing rooms and other unsavory diversions. They also declared it would be a place free of “all party-cant-words, polemics and controversy, religious, national and political.” That kind of talk, they said, was inimical “to the interests of Science.” “A Glorious Enterprise: The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and the Making of American Science,” newly published by the University of Pennsylvania Press, is $75. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Drexel University, 1900 Benjamin Franklin Parkway, Philadelphia, is open daily; information is at ansp.org. A version of this review appears in print on March 27, 2012, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Cupboards of Curiosities Spill Over.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »