Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Turkey (or Chicken) Soup With Lemon and Rice By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour Trending Pasta Primavera With Asparagus and Peas By Melissa Clark 20 minutes Trending Salmon en Papillote (Salmon in Parchment) By Florence Fabricant 20 minutes Trending Potato-and-Radicchio Tart By Tejal Rao 3 hours; 30 minutes active Trending Salmon With Anchovy-Garlic Butter By Melissa Clark 25 minutes Trending Tuscan Farro Soup By Mark Bittman 1 1/2 hours Trending Cumin-Roasted Salmon With Cilantro Sauce By Alison Roman 30 minutes healthy Parsley Hummus By Martha Rose Shulman About 20 minutes healthy Spring Rolls With Carrots, Turnips, Rice Noodles and Herbs By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Spring Rolls With Tofu, Vegetables, Rice Noodles and Herbs By Martha Rose Shulman 50 minutes healthy Spring Rolls With Shrimp, Red Rice and Herbs By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy Spring Rolls With Spinach, Mushrooms, Sesame, Rice and Herbs By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes healthy Turkey (or Chicken) Soup With Lemon and Rice By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour Trending Pasta Primavera With Asparagus and Peas By Melissa Clark 20 minutes Trending Salmon en Papillote (Salmon in Parchment) By Florence Fabricant 20 minutes Trending Potato-and-Radicchio Tart By Tejal Rao 3 hours; 30 minutes active Trending Salmon With Anchovy-Garlic Butter By Melissa Clark 25 minutes Trending Tuscan Farro Soup By Mark Bittman 1 1/2 hours Trending Cumin-Roasted Salmon With Cilantro Sauce By Alison Roman 30 minutes healthy Parsley Hummus By Martha Rose Shulman About 20 minutes healthy Spring Rolls With Carrots, Turnips, Rice Noodles and Herbs By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Spring Rolls With Tofu, Vegetables, Rice Noodles and Herbs By Martha Rose Shulman 50 minutes healthy Spring Rolls With Shrimp, Red Rice and Herbs By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy Spring Rolls With Spinach, Mushrooms, Sesame, Rice and Herbs By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes healthy Turkey (or Chicken) Soup With Lemon and Rice By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour Trending Pasta Primavera With Asparagus and Peas By Melissa Clark 20 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   This recipe is an adaptation of a wonderful recipe by Sherry Yard, executive pastry chef at Spago Beverly Hills. Forbidden rice, also known as Chinese black rice, is packaged by Lotus Foods and sold at Whole Foods and many gourmet grocers. It becomes purple when cooked, which makes a rice pudding made with Forbidden rice ideal for the addition of blueberries. Serve this for dessert or for breakfast. For a delicious vegan rice pudding, substitute rice beverage for the milk. 
Featured in: 
Blueberries Pack A Nutritional Wallop. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Gluten Free,
                    Kosher,
                    Low Fat,
                    Asian,
                    Chinese,
                    Blueberry,
                    Chinese Black Rice
 By Dana Bowen 45 minutes By Julia Moskin 30 minutes By David Tanis 1 hour By David Tanis 1 hour, plus at least 1 hour’s marinating By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 45 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour, plus 4 hours' marinating By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.