Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy French Grated Carrot Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 50 minutes healthy Frittata With Red Peppers and Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Endive Salad With Blue Cheese Dressing By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes easy Poached Rhubarb By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Gingered Winter Fruit Ambrosia By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Fresh Tomato Sauce By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Red Cabbage and Apple Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Cabbage and Carrot Noodles With Egg By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Moroccan Cooked Carrot Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy Braised Red Cabbage With Apples By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Seared Red Cabbage Wedges By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy French Grated Carrot Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 50 minutes healthy Frittata With Red Peppers and Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Endive Salad With Blue Cheese Dressing By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes easy Poached Rhubarb By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Gingered Winter Fruit Ambrosia By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Fresh Tomato Sauce By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Red Cabbage and Apple Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Cabbage and Carrot Noodles With Egg By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Moroccan Cooked Carrot Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy Braised Red Cabbage With Apples By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Seared Red Cabbage Wedges By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy French Grated Carrot Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 50 minutes healthy Frittata With Red Peppers and Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   This is a beautiful salad that keeps well for a few days in the refrigerator. For best results, make sure to shred the cabbage very thinly. 
Featured in: 
Red Cabbage: Versatile, Economical — And Tasty. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Vegan,
                    Dairy Free,
                    Gluten Free,
                    Carrot,
                    Red Cabbage
 By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/4 hours, plus 1 1/2 hours' cooling By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours By Sam Sifton 2 hours 30 minutes By Amanda Hesser 20 minutes By Tara Parker-Pope 20 minutes 1 hour Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Sam Sifton
         Cooking Guide 
          By Samin Nosrat
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.