Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Potato, Green Bean and Spinach Salad By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes  Chicken Breasts With Feta and Figs By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus 30 to 60 minutes' marinating  Monkfish à la Provençale By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes  Spring Ramen Bowl With Snap Peas and Asparagus By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours healthy Provençal Greens Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes  Greek Stewed Green Beans and Yellow Squash With Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman About 55 minutes  Whole Wheat Pappardelle With Fava Purée By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours healthy Couscous With Chickpeas, Spinach and Mint By Martha Rose Shulman 25 minutes, 2 hours' simmer  Roasted Eggplant and Chickpeas With Tomato Sauce By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes healthy Baby Artichoke Risotto By Martha Rose Shulman 50 minutes healthy Bulgur Pilaf With Chickpeas and Herbs By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 35 minutes healthy Puree of Chickpea Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours 30 minutes, plus 6 hours' soaking healthy Potato, Green Bean and Spinach Salad By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes  Chicken Breasts With Feta and Figs By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus 30 to 60 minutes' marinating  Monkfish à la Provençale By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes  Spring Ramen Bowl With Snap Peas and Asparagus By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours healthy Provençal Greens Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes  Greek Stewed Green Beans and Yellow Squash With Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman About 55 minutes  Whole Wheat Pappardelle With Fava Purée By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours healthy Couscous With Chickpeas, Spinach and Mint By Martha Rose Shulman 25 minutes, 2 hours' simmer  Roasted Eggplant and Chickpeas With Tomato Sauce By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes healthy Baby Artichoke Risotto By Martha Rose Shulman 50 minutes healthy Bulgur Pilaf With Chickpeas and Herbs By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 35 minutes healthy Puree of Chickpea Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours 30 minutes, plus 6 hours' soaking healthy Potato, Green Bean and Spinach Salad By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes  Chicken Breasts With Feta and Figs By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus 30 to 60 minutes' marinating 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   This is mostly a pantry dish, very quick to put together. You can serve it on its own, with couscous or pasta, or over a thick slice of toasted bread rubbed with garlic. 
Featured in: 
Chickpeas With Baby Spinach. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Vegan,
                    Dairy Free,
                    Gluten Free,
                    American,
                    Chickpea,
                    Spinach
 By Mark Bittman  10 minutes By Mark Bittman 30 minutes By Sam Sifton 10 minutes By Tara Parker-Pope 20 minutes By Mark Bittman 35 to 45 minutes with cooked beans By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 45 minutes By Florence Fabricant 20 minutes By Alison Roman 30 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.