Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

JAN. 11, 2010
 Every time I read an article like the one in last month’s New York Times about the safety of beef, I tell my son, yet again, that I don’t want him eating beef at school or anywhere else that we haven’t agreed upon. Liam loves burgers, but he’s seen the movie "Food, Inc.," so he doesn’t argue too much. And he’s very happy to eat burgers that aren’t made with beef. I think it’s not so much the meat as much as the pleasure of eating a browned patty in a bun, with ketchup, that he likes (and that I like too). So I wasn’t surprised the other morning when, thinking out loud, I asked “What shall I do for Recipes for Health this week?” Without missing a beat, he replied, “Burgers.” I’ve always liked tuna burgers, and here I offer a version that can be prepared with either tuna or salmon. I’m also always trying to improve upon my turkey burger, which to me is the most challenging because turkey burgers can be so dry and dull. But I also wanted some vegetarian burgers that were not made with processed soy and didn’t require lots of salty ingredients to taste good. I turned to beans and to mushrooms, and came up with some delicious combinations that have great texture and flavor, with lots of vegetables included in the mix. Liam was so happy eating burgers every day for a week, I’m going to have to come up with some more recipes soon — as soon as I finish up the turkey patties in my freezer. Tuna or Salmon Burgers These high-protein burgers are a great way to edge away from beef and still feel like you’re eating a burger. If you sear them quickly they’ll be nice and moist. 1 pound center-cut tuna fillet, dark meat and connective tissue trimmed away, or salmon fillet (preferably wild), skin and small bones removed Advertisement 1/4 cup finely minced shallot or green onion 2 tablespoons capers, drained, rinsed and coarsely chopped Advertisement 2 teaspoons grated fresh ginger 1 tablespoon low-sodium soy sauce Salt and freshly ground pepper to taste  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 1 tablespoon sesame oil 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 2 tablespoons chopped cilantro Olive oil for the griddle or pan Lime wedges for garnish Whole grain hamburger buns and condiments of your choice 1. Mince the fish using a sharp knife. Do not use a food processor. Add the remaining ingredients (except the olive oil and lime wedges) and blend together with a spatula or spoon. Shape into 1/2-inch thick patties and refrigerate, if possible, for 1 hour. 2. Heat a heavy nonstick skillet or a griddle over medium-high heat. Brush with olive oil and turn the heat to medium. Sear the patties for 2 to 3 minutes on each side, depending on how cooked you want the interior to be. Serve on buns, if desired, with the condiments of your choice. Yield: 4 burgers. Advance preparation: You can make up the tuna or salmon mixture and form the patties several hours before you wish to cook them. Keep covered in the refrigerator. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »