Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. easy Broccoli and Avocado Salad By Pierre Franey 25 minutes  Puréed Winter Squash and Red Lentil Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes  Whole Wheat Pappardelle With Fava Purée By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours  Chicken Tagine With Rhubarb By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes  Braised Halibut With Asparagus, Baby Potatoes and Saffron By Martha Rose Shulman 35 minutes easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking  Monkfish à la Provençale By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes healthy Broccoli and Red Onion Quesadillas By Martha Rose Shulman About 10 minutes healthy Broccoli and Endive Salad With Feta and Red Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Broccoli Salad With Cheddar and Warm Bacon Vinaigrette By Margaux Laskey 45 minutes  Broccoli With Tomatoes By Pierre Franey 20 minutes  Broccoli Puree By Pierre Franey 20 minutes easy Broccoli and Avocado Salad By Pierre Franey 25 minutes  Puréed Winter Squash and Red Lentil Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes  Whole Wheat Pappardelle With Fava Purée By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours  Chicken Tagine With Rhubarb By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes  Braised Halibut With Asparagus, Baby Potatoes and Saffron By Martha Rose Shulman 35 minutes easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking  Monkfish à la Provençale By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes healthy Broccoli and Red Onion Quesadillas By Martha Rose Shulman About 10 minutes healthy Broccoli and Endive Salad With Feta and Red Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Broccoli Salad With Cheddar and Warm Bacon Vinaigrette By Margaux Laskey 45 minutes  Broccoli With Tomatoes By Pierre Franey 20 minutes  Broccoli Puree By Pierre Franey 20 minutes easy Broccoli and Avocado Salad By Pierre Franey 25 minutes  Puréed Winter Squash and Red Lentil Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes Serve this comforting salad as a main dish or as a side. The chick peas contribute a considerable amount of protein, manganese and folate to the dish.  
Featured in: 
Broccoli Takes Center Stage. 
   

Learn: How to Make Salad
 
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Broccoli,
                    Dried Chickpea,
                    Red Onion
 By Martha Rose Shulman About 10 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes By Margaux Laskey 45 minutes By Pierre Franey 20 minutes By Mark Bittman 30 minutes By Julia Moskin 1 hour By Mark Bittman 15 minutes By Mark Bittman From 30 minutes to 1 day, largely unattended Cooking Guide 
          By Julia Moskin
         Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Sam Sifton
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.