Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

AUG. 23, 2010
 Tomatoes receive a lot of attention from nutritionists largely because of a phytonutrient called lycopene. Studies have long suggested that lycopene, which is contained in the red pigment, has antioxidant properties. Now growers are raising and marketing “high-lycopene” tomatoes. Indeed, a company based in Israel has developed a dried cherry tomato, which it is calling a “raisin tomato,” that contains almost 100 times the amount of lycopene in a regular cherry tomato. Unfortunately, the high-lycopene tomatoes I found at the supermarket did not taste as sweet as the tomatoes I buy at the farmers’ market. No matter how red a tomato is, if it was picked to be shipped to a faraway supermarket, then it was picked too soon. In many of this week’s recipes I’m using a technique that may be new to some of you. Rather than peeling, seeding and dicing the tomatoes, I grate them on the large holes of a box grater. This is a technique I learned in Greece; it’s used throughout the Mediterranean. Cut the tomatoes in half, squeeze out the seeds if instructed to do so, and rub the cut side against the grater. Don’t worry: the skin is tough and you won’t scrape your hands. When you feel the holes of the grater against the inside of the tomato skin, you’re done. It goes quickly, and it’s a nifty time-saver. Pasta With Salsa Crudo and Green Beans You can make this uncooked grated tomato sauce while you’re waiting for the water to boil for the green beans and pasta. Choose a type of noodle that will catch the sauce, such as orecchiette, penne, fusilli or farfalle. Advertisement 3/4 pound ripe, locally grown tomatoes 1 to 2 garlic cloves, green shoots removed, finely chopped or pureed Advertisement Salt and freshly ground pepper to taste 1 teaspoon balsamic or sherry vinegar 1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil 6 ounces green beans, trimmed 3/4 pound orecchiette, penne, farfalle or fusilli 2 tablespoons slivered basil leaves  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 1/4 cup (1 ounce) freshly grated Parmesan, pecorino or ricotta salata for serving 1. Begin heating a large pot of water. Cut the tomatoes in half across the equator, and grate on the large holes of a box grater into a wide bowl. Stir in the garlic, salt and pepper, vinegar and olive oil. 2. When the water comes to a boil, salt generously and add the green beans. Parboil four minutes. Transfer to a bowl of cold water, then drain and dry on paper towels. Keep the water in the pot boiling for the pasta. Cut the beans into two-inch lengths, and add to the bowl with the tomatoes. 3. Cook the pasta in the boiling water until al dente. Follow the timing instructions on the package, but check the pasta about one minute sooner than the suggested cooking time. When it’s done, drain and toss with the tomato mixture, basil and cheese. Yield: Serves four. Advance preparation: You can make the tomato sauce several hours before you cook the beans and the pasta. Nutritional information per serving: 397 calories; 6 grams fat; 2 grams saturated fat; 4 milligrams cholesterol; 70 grams carbohydrates; 4 grams dietary fiber; 89 milligrams sodium (does not include salt added during preparation); 14 grams protein Martha Rose Shulman can be reached at martha-rose-shulman.com. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »