Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

AUG. 17, 2009
 At the height of summer, I’m so seduced by the fruit at the farmers’ market that I buy more than I can possibly eat. Each variety of peach and plum is irresistible, one melon is more fragrant than the next, and there isn’t a sour strawberry to be found. I buy it all on impulse, then as the week wears on I realize that there is no way I can eat it all before the fruit flies have a party. So I make fruit soups. These fruit soups are incredibly versatile; they’re not so sweet that you couldn’t serve them at the beginning of a meal, or in small cups as an aperitif. But they’re sweet enough to make a satisfying yet nutritious dessert as well, and they make a good snack. I like to eat some of these — the ones with yogurt or buttermilk, like the cherry borscht below — for breakfast as well. Summer fruits, in the words of nutritionist Jonny Bowden, are “high volume foods.” By weight they contain a high amount of water, fiber and air and a low number of calories. Nutritionists who work with patients on weight control have found that people eat about 3 pounds of food a day, be it high volume food like cantaloupe, or low volume food like steak or cheesecake (lots of calories and little fiber for the same weight), and then they stop eating. So high volume foods are the foods to turn to if you are trying to control your weight, and you can pack a lot of fruit into a fruit soup. Cold Cherry Borscht Because this looks so much like a beet borscht, I decided to call it a cherry borscht. Cherries are a terrific source of two phytochemicals, quercetin and ellagic acid, that may have antioxidant as well as anti-inflammatory properties. The anthocyanins that give the fruit its red color are thought to have anti-inflammatory properties as well. It’s worth noting that the Environmental Working Group found a great number of pesticide residues on conventionally grown cherries, so seek out cherries that are grown locally by small farmers. Advertisement 2 1/2 pounds cherries, such as bing cherries, stemmed 3 cups water 1 rose geranium sprig (optional) 3 tablespoons sugar Advertisement 2 tablespoons finely chopped lemon zest 1/2 teaspoon almond extract Pinch of salt 1/4 cup freshly squeezed lemon juice  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 1 1/3 cups plain low-fat yogurt 1. Set aside 18 cherries. Pit the remaining cherries, holding them over a bowl to catch the juices. Place the pitted cherries in the bowl with the juices, and place the pits in a small saucepan. Add 1 cup of the water, the rose geranium sprig, the sugar and the lemon zest. Bring to a boil, reduce the heat, cover and simmer 5 minutes. Strain the liquid in the saucepan into the bowl with the pitted cherries. Discard the pits. 2. Transfer the cherries and liquid to a large saucepan and bring to a simmer. Simmer uncovered for 5 minutes. Remove from the heat and allow to cool slightly. 3. Working in batches and covering the blender top with a kitchen towel to avoid hot splashes, puree the soup, about 1 1/2 cups at a time. Strain through a medium strainer into a bowl, pushing the soup through with the back of a ladle or with a rubber spatula. Stir in the almond extract, a pinch of salt and the lemon juice. Chill the soup by placing the bowl in a larger bowl of ice water, or refrigerate. 4. When the soup has chilled, whisk in the yogurt. Taste and add more lemon juice if desired. 5. Serve garnished with the cherries you set aside. Yield: Serves six to eight. Advance preparation: You can make this a day ahead. Martha Rose Shulman can be reached at martha-rose-shulman.com. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »