Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu.  Chicken Breast Satay By Craig Claiborne 1 hour 30 minutes, plus 1 hour's soaking  Grits Rancheras By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour plus an overnight soak for the grits  Frittata With Kasha, Leeks and Spinach By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour, including draining time for leeks and spinach  Strawberry, Millet and Banana Smoothie By Martha Rose Shulman 5-10 minutes  Granola With Popped Quinoa By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Green Chilaquiles With Eggs By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour  Javanese Chicken Curry (Opor Ayam) By Julia Moskin 1 hour  Indonesian Chicken Soup With Noodles, Turmeric and Ginger By Julia Moskin 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Chicken Caesar Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes  Indonesian Corn Fritters By Elaine Louie 40 minutes  Grilled Chicken Caesar Salad By Florence Fabricant 40 minutes, plus 2 hours marinating  Chicken Breast Satay By Craig Claiborne 1 hour 30 minutes, plus 1 hour's soaking  Grits Rancheras By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour plus an overnight soak for the grits  Frittata With Kasha, Leeks and Spinach By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour, including draining time for leeks and spinach  Strawberry, Millet and Banana Smoothie By Martha Rose Shulman 5-10 minutes  Granola With Popped Quinoa By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Green Chilaquiles With Eggs By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour  Javanese Chicken Curry (Opor Ayam) By Julia Moskin 1 hour  Indonesian Chicken Soup With Noodles, Turmeric and Ginger By Julia Moskin 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Chicken Caesar Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes  Indonesian Corn Fritters By Elaine Louie 40 minutes  Grilled Chicken Caesar Salad By Florence Fabricant 40 minutes, plus 2 hours marinating  Chicken Breast Satay By Craig Claiborne 1 hour 30 minutes, plus 1 hour's soaking  Grits Rancheras By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour plus an overnight soak for the grits 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   Poached chicken breasts, which are at the center of this salad, are a low-fat, high-protein staple with endless possibilities. In this recipe, inspiration comes from the Southeast Asian country of Indonesia. Mint leaves and cilantro add a fresh bite and mung bean sprouts or sunflower sprouts help to fill out the dish. This spicy, refreshing salad makes a great summer meal. 
Featured in: 
Chicken Dishes, With Less Chicken. 
   
Healthy,
                    Indonesian,
                    Bean Sprout,
                    Chicken Breast,
                    Romaine Heart
 By Molly O'Neill 30 minutes By Pierre Franey About 1 hour By Alison Roman 30 minutes By Melissa Clark About 30 minutes By Mark Bittman 45 minutes plus optional marinating time By Sam Sifton 2 hours By Melissa Clark 1 hour 20 minutes By Julia Moskin 25 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Eric Asimov
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.