Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

JUNE 29, 2009
 If you have seen Robert Kenner’s excellent and disturbing movie, "Food Inc.," then you may already have crossed chicken off your list of acceptable foods. Or, like me, you may have resolved to seek out chicken that has been raised in a humane way, not mass-produced and industrially processed like most supermarket poultry. Even the free-range, organic chicken that I buy locally weighs more than chicken I used to purchase when I started cooking. My first cookbook recipes would routinely call for a 3 1/2-pound chicken. I can’t remember the last time I found one that small at a supermarket. Though I know that my chicken has not been raised in a windowless shed and presumably has not been bred to have such large breasts that she can’t walk, the package of boneless, skinless chicken breasts that I buy still contains about 1.3 pounds of meat. I make that meat stretch. Rather than putting cooked chicken breasts at the center of my plate, I poach them, shred them, and combine them with vegetables in soups, salads, tacos and other dishes. After shredding, poached chicken breasts make a low-fat, high protein staple with endless possibilities. Poached and Shredded Chicken Breasts In my supermarket it’s not as easy to find whole chicken breasts on the bone as it used to be. I’m more apt to find a packet of two thick boneless, skinless breasts, about 1.3 to 1.4 pounds total. Chicken on the bone does not dry out as much as boneless breasts. Still, you can use boneless skinless breasts (as I have done) for all of this week’s recipes. I recommend using free-range organic chicken from small producers whenever possible. Advertisement 1 whole chicken breast on the bone, skinned and split, or 2 boneless, skinless chicken breasts, 1 1/3 to 1 1/2 pounds Advertisement 2 1/2 quarts water 1 onion, quartered 2 garlic cloves, peeled and crushed 1/2 teaspoon dried thyme or oregano, or a combination Salt to taste (1 to 1 1/2 teaspoons) Combine the water, the quartered onion and the whole crushed garlic cloves in a 2-quart saucepan, and bring to a simmer over medium heat. Add the chicken breasts, and bring back to a simmer. Skim off any foam that rises, and then add the dried herbs. Cover partially, reduce the heat to low and simmer 15 to 20 minutes, until the chicken is cooked through. (Cut one in half; the meat should not be pink.) Add salt to taste. Allow the chicken to cool in the broth if there is time. Remove the chicken from the broth when cool enough to handle. Remove from the bone and shred, pulling strips of chicken off the top of the breast. Pull with the grain, and the meat comes apart naturally. You should have about 4 cups of shredded chicken. Strain the chicken broth, and refrigerate overnight. The next morning, skim off and discard the fat, and freeze the broth in smaller containers. Yield: About 4 cups shredded chicken. Advance preparation: The shredded chicken will keep for three days in the refrigerator. Southwestern Chicken Salad With Chipotle Chiles Mexico has been a great source of inspiration for me when it comes to making dishes with chicken. Chipotles add heat and smokiness to this dish, which you can serve as a salad or use to fill corn tortillas for soft tacos. For the dressing: 2 tablespoons fresh lime juice 2 tablespoons white wine vinegar or cider vinegar Salt and freshly ground pepper to taste  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 1 small or medium garlic clove, minced 1 scant teaspoon cumin seeds, toasted and coarsely ground 1/4 cup extra virgin olive oil 1/4 cup buttermilk 2 to 4 tablespoons chicken stock (from poaching the chicken breasts), as needed For the salad: 1 whole chicken breast or 2 large boneless skinless breasts, poached and shredded (about 4 cups shredded chicken) Salt and freshly ground pepper 4 large radishes, diced, plus 2 radishes, sliced 1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro Advertisement 2 to 3 chipotle chiles en adobo, rinsed, seeded and cut into thin strips 8 romaine lettuce leaves, cut crosswise into wide strips 1 small avocado, sliced 1. Mix together the ingredients for the dressing. 2. Place the shredded chicken in a large bowl and season to taste with salt and pepper. Toss with the diced radishes, cilantro, chipotles and all but 2 tablespoons of the dressing. 3. Toss the romaine lettuce with the remaining dressing, and arrange on a platter. Top with the salad. Garnish the top of the salad with the sliced radishes and the sliced avocado, and serve. Yield: Serves four to six. Advance preparation: The shredded cooked chicken will keep for three days in the refrigerator. Martha Rose Shulman can be reached at martha-rose-shulman.com. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »