Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

JULY 11, 2011
 The season for freshly picked cherries is short, usually no longer than a month. And in most parts of the country, that month is July. Like other dark red, blue and purple fruits and vegetables, cherries contain anthocyanins, phytonutrients that some experts believe may help reduce inflammation and may have antioxidant properties. Because cherries are ripe when they’re picked, this is one fruit that will be sweet and juicy whether you buy it at a supermarket or a farmers’ market. I’ve tried a variety of different uses for them this week — including a soup, a smoothie and a cobbler — but a big bowl of cold, unadorned cherries is pretty hard to beat. Cherry Clafouti This classic French dessert looks fancy, but it is a cinch to make. I use yogurt in my clafouti, although it isn’t traditional (the French use cream). And I always enjoy leftovers for breakfast. Advertisement 1 1/2 pounds (about 5 cups) fresh ripe cherries, stemmed and pitted if desired 2 tablespoons kirsch 6 tablespoons sugar Advertisement 3 large eggs 1 vanilla bean, scraped Pinch of salt 2/3 cup sifted unbleached all-purpose flour 3/4 cup low-fat yogurt 2 tablespoons milk 2 teaspoons confectioners’ sugar (optional) 1. Toss the cherries with the kirsch and 2 tablespoons of the sugar, and let sit for 30 minutes. Drain over a bowl. 2. Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. Butter a 10- or 10 1/2-inch ceramic tart pan or clafouti dish. Fill the dish with the drained cherries.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 3. In a medium bowl, beat the eggs with the remaining sugar and the seeds from the vanilla bean. Add the salt and the liquid from the cherries, and combine well. Slowly beat in the flour, and whisk until smooth. Add the yogurt and milk, and combine well. Pour over the cherries, scraping out all of the batter with a rubber spatula. 4. Bake in the preheated oven for 30 to 40 minutes until the top is browned and the clafouti is firm and puffed. Press gently on the top in the middle to see if it’s firm. If not, return to the oven for five minutes. 5. Remove from the oven and cool on a rack. When the clafouti is warm or cool, sift on the powdered sugar. Serve warm or at room temperature. Yield: Serves eight.  Advance preparation: If you’re making this for a dinner, you can make it several hours ahead. The leftovers will keep for about three days in the refrigerator. Nutritional information per serving: 176 calories; 1 gram saturated fat; 0 grams polyunsaturated fat; 1 gram monounsaturated fat; 71 milligrams cholesterol; 33 grams carbohydrates; 2 grams dietary fiber; 45 milligrams sodium; 6 grams protein Martha Rose Shulman is the author of "The Very Best of Recipes for Health."  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »