Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

AUG. 22, 2011
 Every summer, I take an inventory of the dry goods in my pantry and try to use up at least some of the grains and beans that I’ve accumulated over the year. This summer the shelves are particularly well stocked, so expect a few of these clean-out columns over the next couple of weeks. I can’t emphasize enough the importance of a well-stocked pantry to a healthy diet. If you have grains and legumes on hand — especially quick-cooking ingredients like bulgur, quinoa, rice and lentils — you’ll always have the basis for a healthy meal. Quinoa and Wild Rice Salad With Ginger Sesame Dressing I like to use a mixture of grains in salads and pilafs. The fluffy, pale quinoa in this gingery salad contrasts nicely with the dark, chewy wild rice. You can serve this as a one-dish meal, a starter or a side dish. For the grains and vegetables: 2 cups cooked quinoa 1 cup cooked wild rice Salt to taste 1 red bell pepper, cut in 2-inch strips 1 cup diced cucumber Advertisement 1 cup edamame 1/4 cup chopped cilantro 3 tablespoons chopped or thinly sliced spring onions or scallions Advertisement For the dressing: 2 tablespoons freshly squeezed lime juice 1 tablespoon rice vinegar 2 teaspoons minced fresh ginger (more to taste) 1 small garlic clove, minced Pinch of cayenne Salt to taste 1/2 teaspoon soy sauce 2 tablespoons Asian sesame oil  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 1/3 cup canola oil Leaf lettuce or radicchio for serving (optional) 1. Toss together all of the salad ingredients. 2. Whisk together the dressing ingredients. Toss with the salad ingredients, and serve — if desired, over a bed of lettuce or radicchio leaves. Yield: Serves four to six. Advance preparation: You can make this dish a few hours ahead and refrigerate. Cooked grains will keep for several months in the freezer and for three or four days in the refrigerator. Nutritional information per serving (four servings): 450 calories; 2 grams saturated fat; 8 grams polyunsaturated fat; 15 grams monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 36 grams carbohydrates; 6 grams dietary fiber; 31 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 11 grams protein Nutritional information per serving (six servings): 300 calories; 2 grams saturated fat; 6 grams polyunsaturated fat; 10 grams monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 24 grams carbohydrates; 4 grams dietary fiber; 21 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 8 grams protein Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »