Advertisement By C. CLAIBORNE RAYJAN. 30, 2017
 Q. How do squirrels build their nests so that they don’t fall apart and dump the baby squirrels? A. Squirrels’ nests, also called dreys, may look like haphazard clumps of leaves but are actually fairly complex in their construction, with several layers of different materials. Tree squirrels also seek out advantageous locations with built-in support, like the juncture of several branches emerging from a tree trunk or a tangle of grape vines. Some squirrels build nests in tree cavities rather than among the high branches. The squirrel begins by roughly weaving a platform of live green twigs. On top of this, soft, compressible materials like moss and damp leaves are added. Then an outer skeleton of twigs and vines is built around the insulated core, and finally, additional material fills in and strengthens the shell. For the familiar gray squirrel, Sciurus carolinensis, the central cavity is about six to eight inches across. Smaller species build proportionally smaller nests. One study of nest materials used by European ground squirrels found that damp leaves and moss provided better insulation than dry lining materials. A 2013 German hidden-camera study of a red squirrel filmed a nest being built in work periods totaling more than three and a half hours over three days. The squirrel carried material to the site with its mouth and front paws; bent stiffer twigs with its head and face; pushed other material into place with its legs; shredded lining components by holding them with the front paws and chewing; and shaped the inner cavity by lying in it and turning around. question@nytimes.com Questions of general interest will be answered, but requests for medical advice cannot be honored and unpublished letters cannot be answered individually. Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter. A version of this article appears in print on January 31, 2017, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: A Safe Home for Baby Squirrels.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »