Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
SINDYA N. BHANOO

DEC. 18, 2012
 The pharaoh Ramses III, who ruled Egypt in the 12th century B.C., had a scheming wife who was intent on murdering him to bring their son to the throne. The plot is documented in an ancient papyrus, but the exact circumstances of Ramses’ death have been unclear. Now, researchers have used CT scans of the pharaoh’s mummy to reveal that his throat was slit. “The big cut is in his throat, and it was very deep and large,” said Albert Zink, an anthropologist at the European Academy, who was involved in the research. “It would have killed him immediately.” Dr. Zink, along with colleagues from Egypt, Italy and Germany, publish their findings about Ramses (sometimes spelled Ramesses) in the British medical journal BMJ. The researchers also discovered an amulet in the king’s wound. Called the Eye of Horus, it was supposed to guard against accidents and restore the wearer’s strength. Advertisement “This was most probably done by the ancient embalmers,” Dr. Zink said. “They tried to heal his wound for his afterlife.” The ancient documents that discuss the coup are called the Judicial Papyrus of Turin. They cite the pharaoh’s second wife, Tiye, as the schemer.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The researchers also analyzed a second mummy called Unknown Man E and found that he was about 18 to 20 at his death and closely related to Ramses III. So he may have been the pharaoh’s son Pentawer, the intended beneficiary of the plot. CT scans revealed that the younger mummy did not have his organs or brains removed, as was the standard. He was also covered with goat’s skin, which was considered an impure material. Advertisement “It is obvious this mummy was being punished in some way for his afterlife,” Dr. Zink said. A version of this article appears in print on December 25, 2012, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Scans of Mummy Show Pharaoh’s Slit Throat.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »