Advertisement 
NOV. 14, 2011
 My Recipes for Health this week aren’t Thanksgiving recipes per se (enough already!), but they’d be welcome at a Thanksgiving table. I include cornmeal in my grouping of Thanksgiving foods, as corn is one of the Native American foods that sustained the Pilgrims during their first difficult years in the colonies. Cornmeal can be at the center of your plate in the form of spoonbread or polenta, or it can be one ingredient in a mixed-grain bread or pastry. This week I looked to the American South and beyond for recipes, and found some of the most delightful dishes in Greece. Turkey is another Mediterranean country where you find cornmeal in recipes, particularly in rustic country breads. The grain is an excellent source of iron, magnesium, phosphorus, zinc and vitamin B6. Jalapeño Spoonbread Spoonbread, a traditional Southern dish, is sort of a cross between a soufflé and polenta — a light, fluffy mixture of cornmeal, water, milk and eggs. You could serve it as a vegetarian main dish or as a side. I like to bake this in a well-seasoned cast iron skillet. 1 cup water 3/4 teaspoon salt 130 grams (1 cup) cornmeal, fine or medium, but not coarse 2 cups milk (1 percent or 2 percent) Advertisement 2 tablespoons unsalted butter 3 eggs, separated Kernels from 1 ear of corn or 3/4 cup frozen corn (optional) Advertisement 2 jalapeños, seeded if desired and minced 2 ounces Gruyère cheese, grated (1/2 cup) (optional) 1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Oil or butter a 9- or 10-inch cast iron skillet or a 2-quart soufflé dish or baking dish. 2.  Combine the water, milk and salt in a heavy medium saucepan and bring to a boil over medium heat. Slowly add the cornmeal in a very thin stream while stirring all the time with a whisk or a wooden spoon. Turn the heat to low and stir for 10 to 15 minutes, until the mixture is smooth and thick. Remove from the heat and stir in the butter. 3. One at a time, stir in the egg yolks, then add the optional cheese and corn kernels, and the jalapeños.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 4. In a medium bowl or in the bowl of an electric mixer, beat the egg whites on medium until they form stiff but not dry peaks. Stir 1/4 of the egg whites into the cornmeal mixture and gently fold in the rest. Scrape into the prepared baking dish. Place in the oven and bake for 30 minutes until spoonbread is puffed and beginning to brown. Serve at once. Chill leftovers. Yield: 6 to 8 servings. Advance preparation: This is best served right away before it collapses. But the leftovers are delicious. Once this is cooled, you can cut it into wedges. You can reheat, serve at room temperature or brown slices or squares in a little oil. Variation: If you don’t want the spice of the jalapeño, sauté a diced green bell pepper in a tablespoon of olive oil until tender and stir into the cooked cornmeal instead of the jalapeño. Nutritional information per serving (6 servings): 185 calories; 4 grams saturated fat; 1 gram polyunsaturated fat; 2 grams monounsaturated fat; 110 milligrams cholesterol; 21 grams carbohydrates; 1 gram dietary fiber; 367 milligrams sodium; 8 grams protein Nutritional information per serving (8 servings): 139 calories; 3 grams saturated fat; 1 gram polyunsaturated fat; 2 grams monounsaturated fat; 82 milligrams cholesterol; 16 grams carbohydrates; 1 gram dietary fiber; 275 milligrams sodium; 6 grams protein      Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »