Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

OCT. 24, 2011
 Dinner for one can be a conundrum. If you never know when you’re going to be home it’s difficult to plan. If you’ve been cooking for a family for years and now your children are out of the house, you may be flummoxed by the idea of preparing a meal for just one person. Or say you’re divorced, and some nights your children are with their other parent. How do you plan a dinner for yourself? I’m in that third situation a few nights a week, and often all I want to eat is a salad — but a salad with substance. I’m hungry at the end of the day, and dinner is the one meal of the day that I sit down to enjoy in a leisurely fashion, whether alone or in company. I’ve found that one of the most enjoyable ways to bulk up my salads (as well as panini and grain-and-vegetable combos) is to top the dish with a poached egg. Sometimes poached eggs are the centerpiece of my dinner, cooked in marinara or spicy tomato sauce and served with toasted country bread or over rice. When I was a caterer I learned that you can poach eggs ahead – they’ll keep for several days in a bowl of cold water in the refrigerator. Just carefully drain and warm in a bowl of warm water. Not that they’re any trouble to poach on the spot. Here’s the very reliable method I use: Fill a frying pan with water   — for one or two eggs I use my 8-inch omelet pan — and bring to a boil. Add a tablespoon of vinegar to the water. One at a time, break the eggs into a teacup, then tip from the teacup into the pan (do this in batches if necessary). Immediately turn off the heat under the pan and cover tightly. Leave large and extra-large eggs for four minutes. Smaller eggs, like the beautiful ones an urban farmer friend brought me from his henhouse the other day, will be done in three. Using a spatula or a slotted spoon, carefully transfer to a bowl of cold water. Before serving, drain on a clean dish towel. Quinoa, Spinach and Poached Egg As in most of the other comforting and simple dinners for one in this week’s Recipes for Health, all of the elements here can be prepared in advance of assembling this dish. I prefer using bunch spinach from the farmers’ market, but you can also use baby spinach. If you use a bunch, go ahead and clean and stem the whole thing. Either wilt all of it or use the other half for a salad. Advertisement 1 allspice berry 1 clove 8 coriander seeds 1/8 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg 1/8 teaspoon ground cinnamon Advertisement Half of a 12-ounce bunch of fresh spinach, stemmed and washed thoroughly, or 1 bag baby spinach, rinsed Salt and freshly ground pepper 1 teaspoon extra virgin olive oil 3/4 cup cooked quinoa 1 or 2 eggs (to taste), poached (see above) 1/4 ounce (1 tablespoon) crumbled feta, or 1 to 2 tablespoons drained yogurt, seasoned, if desired, with puréed garlic  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 1. Grind the allspice berry, clove and coriander seeds in a spice mill or a mortar and pestle. Add the nutmeg and cinnamon and mix together. Set aside. 2. Heat a wide, heavy skillet over high heat and wilt the spinach in the water left on the leaves after rinsing. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Transfer to a colander, and press out excess water with the back of a large spoon. Chop coarsely and set aside. 3. Heat the olive oil in a medium skillet and add the spices. As soon as they begin to sizzle, add the quinoa and stir together for a couple of minutes. Keep warm. 4. Poach your egg or eggs if you haven’t already done so. 5. Arrange the quinoa in the center of a dinner plate and make a well in the middle. Pile the spinach into the well. Top with the poached egg or eggs and season with salt and pepper. Sprinkle on the feta or spoon on the garlic-spiked yogurt and enjoy. Yield: 1 serving. Advance preparation: All of the elements of this dish – the quinoa, the wilted spinach and the eggs, will keep for several days in the refrigerator. Keep poached eggs in a bowl of water. Nutritional information per serving (analyzed for 1 egg only): 338 calories; 3 grams saturated fat; 2 grams polyunsaturated fat; 5 grams monounsaturated fat; 192 milligrams cholesterol; 37 grams carbohydrates; 8 grams dietary fiber; 294 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 18 grams protein Advertisement    Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”    We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »