Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Mediterranean Lentil Purée By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 15 minutes Trending Vegan Mexican Cacao Brownies By The New York Times 50 minutes Trending Mexican Rice By Kim Severson 40 minutes Trending Enchiladas Con Carne By Sam Sifton 1 1/2 hours Trending Zucchini With Shallots By Pierre Franey About 15 minutes Trending Penne Alla Vodka By Nigella Lawson 45 minutes Trending Pan-Seared Salmon With Celery, Olives and Capers By Yotam Ottolenghi 45 minutes healthy Parsley Hummus By Martha Rose Shulman About 20 minutes healthy Pickled Broccoli Stems By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus overnight refrigeration healthy Green Tomato Salsa Verde By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Spinach and Yogurt Dip By Martha Rose Shulman About 20 minutes healthy Carrot Purée By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Mediterranean Lentil Purée By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 15 minutes Trending Vegan Mexican Cacao Brownies By The New York Times 50 minutes Trending Mexican Rice By Kim Severson 40 minutes Trending Enchiladas Con Carne By Sam Sifton 1 1/2 hours Trending Zucchini With Shallots By Pierre Franey About 15 minutes Trending Penne Alla Vodka By Nigella Lawson 45 minutes Trending Pan-Seared Salmon With Celery, Olives and Capers By Yotam Ottolenghi 45 minutes healthy Parsley Hummus By Martha Rose Shulman About 20 minutes healthy Pickled Broccoli Stems By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus overnight refrigeration healthy Green Tomato Salsa Verde By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Spinach and Yogurt Dip By Martha Rose Shulman About 20 minutes healthy Carrot Purée By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Mediterranean Lentil Purée By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 15 minutes Trending Vegan Mexican Cacao Brownies By The New York Times 50 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   In this comforting Turkish version of hummus the chickpea purée is warmed in the oven and topped with pine nuts. In the authentic version, a generous amount of melted butter would be drizzled over the top before baking. I have substituted a moderate amount of olive oil for the butter.  
Featured in: 
For Holiday Party Fare, Try A Purée. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Vegan,
                    Dairy Free,
                    Gluten Free,
                    Turkish,
                    Chickpea,
                    Garlic,
                    Pine Nut
 By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 45 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/4 hours, plus 1 1/2 hours' cooling By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours By Jacques Pépin 35 minutes By Mark Bittman 20 minutes By Jeff Gordinier 35 minutes By Samin Nosrat 10 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Julia Moskin
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.