Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu.  Beet Gnocchi By Mark Bittman 2 hours Trending Salmon With Anchovy-Garlic Butter By Melissa Clark 25 minutes Trending Suvir Saran’s Spinach and Potato Patties (Palak Ki Tiki) By Martha Rose Shulman About 50 minutes Trending Avocado Tacos By Jeff Gordinier 45 minutes Trending Black Pepper Chicken Thighs With Mango, Rum and Cashews By Melissa Clark 30 minutes Trending Chicken in Mustard Sauce By Jacques Pépin 35 minutes Trending Israeli Couscous, Bean and Tomato Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Simmered Beet Greens With Roasted Beets, Lemon and Yogurt By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Black and Arborio Risotto With Beets and Beet Greens By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours healthy Beet Greens Frittata By Martha Rose Shulman 50 minutes healthy Beet and Potato Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes healthy Beet Greens Bruschetta With Poached Egg and Fontina By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes  Beet Gnocchi By Mark Bittman 2 hours Trending Salmon With Anchovy-Garlic Butter By Melissa Clark 25 minutes Trending Suvir Saran’s Spinach and Potato Patties (Palak Ki Tiki) By Martha Rose Shulman About 50 minutes Trending Avocado Tacos By Jeff Gordinier 45 minutes Trending Black Pepper Chicken Thighs With Mango, Rum and Cashews By Melissa Clark 30 minutes Trending Chicken in Mustard Sauce By Jacques Pépin 35 minutes Trending Israeli Couscous, Bean and Tomato Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Simmered Beet Greens With Roasted Beets, Lemon and Yogurt By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Black and Arborio Risotto With Beets and Beet Greens By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours healthy Beet Greens Frittata By Martha Rose Shulman 50 minutes healthy Beet and Potato Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes healthy Beet Greens Bruschetta With Poached Egg and Fontina By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes  Beet Gnocchi By Mark Bittman 2 hours Trending Salmon With Anchovy-Garlic Butter By Melissa Clark 25 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   I’ve modeled these delicious and easy grated beet fritters after traditional Greek zucchini fritters. Make sure to buy beets that have a generous amount of greens attached. Don’t be alarmed by the amount of oil: About half of it will still be in the pan when you’re finished, if you are careful to get it hot enough before you add the fritters. 
Featured in: 
A Dynamic Duo: Beets And Beet Greens. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Kosher,
                    High Fiber,
                    Nut Free,
                    Beet,
                    Bread Crumb,
                    Herb
 By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes By Amanda Hesser 3 hours 30 minutes, plus overnight soaking of ginger By Tara Parker-Pope About 2 hours By Mark Bittman 1 hour By Tara Parker-Pope 2 hours 30 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Julia Moskin
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.