Advertisement 
Books  By                     
 CORNELIA DEAN
 
SEPT. 3, 2012
 Scientists and engineers have a tremendous capacity to detect, track, measure and otherwise observe phenomena of all kinds. This growing capacity is perhaps their most powerful tool. But it presents problems, too, because it is no easy task to marshal this flood of data and present it in ways that others — or sometimes even they themselves — can understand and make use of it. Now Felice C. Frankel and Angela H. DePace are offering some help. They bill their new book, “Visual Strategies,” as a guide to graphics for scientists and engineers, but it will be useful for anyone who wants to make clear presentations of data of any kind. “Images engage us in ways that words cannot,” they write. But they add that creating a graphic is like writing an article. You must plan what to say, in what order, with what details. The message of this book is that the extra effort is well worth it. The book offers general guidelines, with illustrative graphics, and many real-life case studies. The authors show how they would improve actual graphics, and they invite improvements to their improvements on their Web site, www.visual-strategies.org. Advertisement Others have taken a crack at this problem, notably Edward Tufte, an emeritus professor at Yale whose book “The Visual Display of Quantitative Information,” first published in 1983, is the first in a string of classics. But Dr. Tufte can be given to abstraction; Ms. Frankel and Dr. DePace speak as if they were looking up from the laboratory bench. Usually their suggestions are simple, and the results are striking. Add color, subtract color, color only one part of an image — these kinds of relatively simple steps can add clarity. Advertisement Over all, their recipe is simple: ¶  Consider how the graphic will be used, and by whom. ¶  Choose a design vernacular: Will you use cartoons, charts, sketches, photos or other elements? ¶  Organize the elements of your graphic and know how they relate to one another. ¶  Identify what’s essential (and, by implication, what can be dropped). ¶  Use color to draw attention, to label things that relate to one another or to express elements like scale. ¶  Add other variables as needed. ¶  Edit and refine. Reduce visual clutter. (Or as Dr. Tufte once put it, realize that every drop of ink must be in there for a reason.) As with anything, the devil is in the details, but this kind of thinking is not abstruse. In fact, in an interview with the authors at the beginning of the book, its designer, Stefan Sagmeister, says that when he looked at some of the examples Ms. Frankel and Dr. DePace wanted to include — a fairly typical sample, I would agree from my modest reading of scientific journals — he was astonished at what seemed to be basic mistakes in the use of color, form and the like, the kinds of errors researchers could learn to avoid if they took even a basic design course. But most scientists and engineers do not take instruction in graphical design (or in written or spoken communication, either), and that is too bad. Advertisement Nowadays, it is widely agreed that science and engineering research is plagued by poor communication — not just to the lay public but also among disciplines and even within them. (The evolutionary biologist Stephen Jay Gould, who died in 2002, famously remarked that if they are honest, scientists admit they don’t understand new developments outside their specialty, or even their subspecialty.)  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Ms. Frankel, a photographer and researcher at the Center for Materials Science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, has produced many images that are now icons of science. Some appear in her 2002 book “Envisioning Science: The Design and Craft of the Science Image.” In a way she and Dr. DePace, a systems biologist at Harvard Medical School, began collaborating on this project a decade ago, when they met by accident at a conference on visualization in science. Since then, they have worked together on conferences and workshops on “Image and Meaning.” In the book, Ms. Frankel and Dr. DePace encourage us to consider all of the examples they offer, even if they illustrate something distant from our own work. As they write, “The challenges in making good graphics are consistent across different disciplines and all types of representations.” 
VISUAL STRATEGIES
 
A Practical Guide to Graphics for Scientists and Engineers
 
By Felice C. Frankel and Angela H. DePace
 Yale University Press. 160 pages. $35. A version of this review appears in print on September 4, 2012, on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: Dimensions of Data, Turned Into Art That Speaks.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »