Advertisement By C. CLAIBORNE RAYJUNE 15, 2015
 claiborneray@yahoo.com Q. What are stink bugs, where did they come from, and how can I get rid of them? A. If you live in the mid-Atlantic states, you are probably dealing with brown marmorated stink bugs, Halyomorpha halys, a true bug in the order Hemiptera, with a proboscis adapted for piercing and sucking plants. They are fairly recent invaders of the United States, presumably as stowaways in cargo from China, and were identified first in Pennsylvania in 1998, according to research sponsored by the United States Department of Agriculture. They have become major crop pests, as they were in their native China, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan. They are best known to invaded households for the appalling odor their scent glands emit when they are under pressure, presumably to ward off predators. Native stink bugs, which are not crop pests, are similar in appearance but have a yellow-green underside, whereas the invaders’ is brown. Removal is tricky, and pest authorities recommend keeping them from entering dwellings in the first place by sealing cracks and window frames. Advertisement If the bugs are already inside, their entryways should be sealed and the bugs should be removed with a vacuum cleaner, which does run the risk of releasing that smell when they are sucked in en masse. Poisoning them in place is not usually advised, because other pests, like carpet beetles, can feed on the corpses. It has been reported that some homegrown organisms, like the yellow garden spider, some species of praying mantis and the wheel bug, Arilus cristatus, are now adapting to preying on the invaders. Researchers are even considering importing a wasp that helps control the stink bugs in their original range. Advertisement As for what produces the smell, the exact chemical constituents are not fully known, but research in a related species, Cosmopepla bimaculata, found a complicated cocktail of at least 11 volatile compounds, including two aldehydes, two esters, five alkanes and two unidentified compounds. The research also found that these bugs were relatively reluctant to use their chemical weapon, as it was costly in terms of energy to produce it. question@nytimes.com Questions of general interest will be answered, but requests for medical advice cannot be honored and unpublished letters cannot be answered individually. A version of this article appears in print on June 16, 2015, on Page D4 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »