Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
 HENRY FOUNTAIN
 
JUNE 27, 2006
 Why does one person trust another? One reason may be that the two do good things for each other — the "I'll scratch your back, you scratch mine" idea. But often the reciprocity is not as direct. We trust people even though they have never done anything specifically for us. And people do good things even if they get no direct benefit. There is a two-part explanation for this, scientists say. One is that we "keep score" when we watch people, and if we see them acting in a cooperative way we are more likely to cooperate with them. The other is that we modify our behavior in response to being observed. If we think others are watching who may eventually cooperate with us, we are more likely to be cooperative ourselves. "There's plenty of evidence for this in humans," said Redouan Bshary of the University of Neuchatel in Switzerland. "But until now, none in other animals." Advertisement In a report in Nature, Dr. Bshary and Alexandra S. Grutter of the University of Queensland in Australia show this kind of behavior in fish. Advertisement The researchers studied small wrasse that eat parasites off the skin of larger bream. It's a mutual relationship: the bream gets a cleaning, and the wrasse gets food and protection from predators. But truth be told, wrasse prefer skin mucus over parasites. They "cheat" occasionally, approaching a bream to eat parasites but eating the mucus instead. Dr. Bshary said that in the wild it appeared that when one wrasse was cleaning a bream, other bream took notice. If the wrasse cooperated by eating parasites, then other bream would approach the wrasse for cleaning. But if there was a conflict — if the wrasse was trying to eat mucus — then the other bream would shun the wrasse. The researchers also noticed that wrasse would avoid cheating if other bream were watching. Dr. Bshary and Dr. Grutter developed elaborate experiments, involving one-way mirrors and plates of food  they could manipulate, that confirmed what they had seen in the wild. Dr. Bshary said no doubt the behavior evolved, in both fish and humans, since the outcome, increased cooperation, is beneficial. And evolution, he noted, is all about benefit. Warming and the Red-Eye Those contrails that crisscross the sky in areas of high air traffic can be a pretty sight, but they are also thought to have an effect on climate. That's because the wispy lines of clouds — created when water vapor in jet-engine exhaust condenses — can block solar and thermal radiation. The effect works both ways: contrails block some of the sunlight that would ordinarily reach the earth's surface, and they also trap some of the heat that would ordinarily radiate away from it. Scientists think the net effect is to warm things up a bit, with the heat-trapping outweighing the light-blocking. Advertisement On a daily basis, though, the impact is greater at night, according to a study by Nicola Stuber and colleagues from the University of Reading in Britain.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The researchers modeled the effect of contrails in a part of southeastern England along the major North Atlantic air corridor. They used data from a European Union project that provided the tracking of aircraft movement over six days in 2002, as well as detailed information on air temperature and humidity by altitude over the study area. (The duration of contrails is greatly affected by temperature and humidity.) The analysis, reported in the June 15 issue of Nature, showed that while night flights account for only one-quarter of daily air traffic, they contribute up to 80 percent of the warming effect. During the day, the researchers say, the two effects tend to cancel each other out. But at night there is no sunlight for the contrails to block, so the heat-trapping effect is dominant. The overall warming impact of contrails is small compared with other types of human-induced climate change. But every little bit hurts. The researchers suggest that shifting some flights from nighttime to daytime would help minimize the effect. Protection Against Freezing Fish that live in extremely cold environments protect themselves from freezing by producing proteins that inhibit the formation of ice crystals inside the body. In Arctic fish, the proteins originate in the liver and enter the circulatory system, where they are pumped around to protect tissues. But a new study of Antarctic fish reveals a different origin for their antifreeze proteins. None of them are synthesized in the liver. Most originate in the pancreas and protect the digestive fluids. The study, by Chi-Hing C. Cheng of the University of Illinois and colleagues and published last week in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, looked at protein production in the Atlantic toothfish and other notothenioids, the main group of bony fish found in the Antarctic region. They found that proteins were produced in pancreatic cells in both larval and adult fish. The researchers suggest that this alternative freezing-protection scheme developed through natural selection, because these fish have been confined to the icy Southern Ocean. They ingest small bits of ice all the time, so some system that prevents these bits of ice from freezing the digestive fluids was a necessity. But protecting the digestive system doesn't ensure that other parts of the body don't freeze. The researchers found evidence that the antifreeze proteins are absorbed from the digestive tract into the bloodstream, accumulating over several months. The fish's kidneys then help conserve the proteins so that the entire fish is protected. Advertisement Good News in an African Park Wildlife poaching has been a constant problem in much of Africa, but there is some good news about antipoaching efforts in Virunga National Park in eastern Congo. A new census of elephants, buffalo and other large mammals in the park, near the borders of Rwanda and Uganda, shows that populations of some animals have increased since 2003. The survey, by representatives from the Wildlife Conservation Society and the Congolese Institute for Nature Conservation, showed the elephant population at 340, up from 265 three years ago. There are now 3,800 buffalo in the park, compared with 2,300 in 2003. The antipoaching effort involves patrols by armed guards. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F3 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »