Advertisement By DENNIS OVERBYEAUG. 22, 2006
 Uncle Wes bought a solar system mobile for my daughter’s fourth birthday this spring. Unfortunately, it required assembly, which included painting the little spheres with fluorescent paint, measuring,  tying of black thread, and a little cursing of Uncle Wes. We had it almost assembled when Jupiter fell off again, taking half the solar system with it. We found the Earth, a blue pea, under a bed, and eventually found one of the little comets hanging from the window blinds, but we couldn’t find Pluto, barely bigger than a rice grain, anywhere. I went to bed disconsolate, being the curator of cosmic affairs in the household, that my daughter was going to wake up to an incomplete solar system. This was a poignant predicament for a science reporter. Pluto’s status has been controversial for years. Several astronomers have argued that its tiny size and elongated and inclined orbit make it a better match with the ice balls wandering beyond Neptune in the so-called Kuiper Belt than with the other planets —  never mind the placemats, textbooks, the schoolroom charts and, yes, the planet mobiles. As of this writing, they are still arguing and if Pluto survives as a planet, it could be with an asterisk. Advertisement Last week a committee appointed by the International Astronomical Union proposed a new, scientific definition of a planet, namely anything that is round, circles a star and is not itself a star. Advertisement That turned out to include, once you read the fine print, not just Pluto and Xena, which is slightly larger and farther out, but also the asteroid Ceres (once briefly called the eighth planet) and Pluto’s moon Charon, bumping the number of planets to 12. Apparently I’m not the only one scratching my head. It just seems a little wacky that Pluto’s satellite gets to join the club, but not bigger and more interesting bodies like Titan and Europa, both mentioned as possible abodes of life, or our own Moon. Mike Brown, an astronomer at the California Institute of Technology and discoverer of Xena, says that more than  40 other objects fit the new planet criteria, which he described last week as a “No Ice Ball Left Behind” policy. Astronomers are already  inventing mnemonics to help them remember the names of the new planets, like this one from David Sturm, a physicist at the University of Maine: “My Very Excellent Mother Could Just Serve Us Nuts, Pizza, Carrots ’n’ Xylophones!” Meanwhile, some geologists are upset about the use of the word “pluton” to describe Pluto-like planets in the new scheme. In geology plutons are chunks of molten rock that solidify underground and then emerge on the surface, emissaries, if you will, from the underworld. “What happens when we find a pluton on a pluton?” asked Allen F. Glazner of the University of North Carolina. In e-mail messages from Prague, Owen Gingerich, chairman of the union’s Planet Definition Committee, said, “It was only accidental that Pluto remained a planet” in their proposal. Nor had they tried to calculate how many new planets would result.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Today the group will be offering a new proposal, taking orbital dynamics as well as roundness into account.  “The eight classical planets will still be central to the meaning of planet, and the other round nonsatellite objects will all be dwarf planets,” he wrote, “but there will still be a special category for which Pluto is the prototype.” Advertisement A committee member, Richard Binzel of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, would not reveal details of the proposal before the discussion today, but he said, “We’re going in the direction of categories of planets.” The final vote is Thursday and I have no idea what will happen today, let alone then. But I know how I feel about it. I think the committee has fallen into a trap, trying too hard to come up with a scientific answer to a problem that is not scientific. I don’t hear geologists getting in a dither about the difference between a hill and a mountain, or arguing about what qualifies as a continent — why Europe but not India? Why Australia but not Greenland? That hasn’t stopped them from making progress on plate tectonics, nor has Pluto’s ambiguity stopped planetary science from forging ahead. If Pluto were discovered today, nobody would have any trouble assigning it to minor league status, with Xena and the other ice balls. But it was not, and we have 76 years of tradition to deal with. One can’t help but remember the ballyhooed but futile effort 30 years ago to switch to the metric system. Not so long ago, the astronomy magazine Sky & Telescope sponsored a big contest to find a more dignified name for the Big Bang, the putative creation event, only to announce at the end that every alternative was worse. It would serve us Plutophiles right if Dr. Gingerich and his colleagues had hatched this scheme just to teach us a lesson. But it’s hard to tamper with tradition and with placemats. After all, the planets aren’t just named, they’re hopelessly anthropomorphized, named for Gods, with personalities. Moreover, unlike subatomic  particles, the planets are out there for all of us to see. Anybody can learn to follow them around in the sky. Einstein’s theory of general relativity would not have had nearly the emotional impact that it did in 1919 if not for the dramatic verification during an eclipse that year that the stars themselves could appear knocked askew in the sky by the Sun’s gravity. The sky is our oldest symbol of order and regularity in nature. Mess with it at your own peril. I have done my bit to put the solar system in order. After a careful search in the light of day I found Pluto hanging by a thread on the side of a toy shopping cart. I rehung it and then taped down the hangers for the rest of the planets. My daughter’s solar system is done. It won’t come apart again. But I might be able to hang a little Xena off one end. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F1 of the New York edition with the headline: Planets Askew in the Heavens, And Here on Earth, a Mess.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »