Advertisement By CORNELIA DEANMAY 23, 2006
 KANANASKIS STATION, Alberta  — A wolf gave scientists the idea for Y2Y, the conservation collaborative covering the Rockies from the Yukon to Yellowstone. Researchers captured the wolf, a female, near here on a rainy June day in 1991. They fitted her with a collar and satellite transmitter and, over the next two years, picked up signals as she moved north to Banff National Park, and then west into British Columbia, south across the United States border and through Glacier National Park to Browning, Mont., to Idaho and then to Washington and finally north again to British Columbia, where she stayed a few weeks before taking off on another looping trip south. The wolf, named Pluie (ploo-WEE,  rain in French) wandered  an area of about 40,000 square miles, spending time with five packs. "We thought she was on a pickup truck for a while," said Paul Paquet, a zoologist with the World Wildlife Fund, who led the tracking effort. "She was moving so fast." In December 1993, near Fernie, British Columbia, Pluie's  collar issued its last signal. Soon after, someone sent its battery to Dr. Paquet. It had a bullet hole through it. Advertisement But Pluie was not dead, not yet.  Two years later she turned up, with her batteryless collar, outside Invermere, British Columbia, near Kootenay National Park. She was with an adult male and three pups. A hunter had shot them all dead. Pluie had shown that despite everything  — roads, rails,  people and buildings  — large carnivores and their prey still roamed the Rocky Mountains.  But she also showed that effective conservation must transcend state, provincial and national  borders and provide a way to protect animals on the move from civilization's threats. Advertisement The grizzly bear is the official symbol of Y2Y. But Dr. Paquet said it was important for people to know about Pluie. "This was the founding story of Y2Y," he said. "Really, the whole idea evolved out of it." A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F4 of the New York edition with the headline: Wandering Wolf Inspires Project.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »