Advertisement By NICHOLAS BAKALARMAY 23, 2006
 For women, combining work and family may be a healthier choice than staying home, recent research in Britain suggests. The researchers studied 1,171 women born in 1946, interviewing them in each decade from their 20's on to collect information about their health, work, marriage and children. They then had the women report their state of health at 54. The study found that women who had taken on multiple roles as mothers, wives, and employees over those years were significantly healthier than those who had not. "Our question," said Anne McMunn, the lead author of the findings, "was whether women were working and having families because of their good health or whether their health was relatively good because of multiple role occupation." The answer, the study found, is that taking on extra roles was itself associated with good health, and that initial good health was not a predictor of taking on extra roles. Advertisement Dr. McMunn is a senior research fellow in the department of epidemiology and public health at University College London. Advertisement According to background information in the paper, which appears in the June issue of The Journal of Epidemiology and Community Health, it has been well known for some time that women who both work and maintain families are healthier than those who do not.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But it had not been clear that that was not simply because healthier women were inclined to take on both work and other roles. The authors acknowledged the difficulty of generalizing beyond the specific group of British women included in the study. Examining other populations may produce different findings. Nevertheless, they concluded, "Our results suggest that good health is more likely to be the result, rather than the cause" of taking on work along with family and child-rearing obligations. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F6 of the New York edition with the headline: Exploring Women's Health and Double Duty.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »