Advertisement By WARREN E. LEARYJUNE 27, 2006
 With dogged determination, NASA will try resuming regular space shuttle missions this week, hoping that the venerable spacecraft will weather aging components and falling debris long enough to finish construction of the International Space Station. The shuttle Discovery is scheduled to be launched as early as Saturday from Cape Canaveral, Fla., on just the second flight since the loss of the Columbia and its crew of seven. Officials hope to test the modifications and new procedures instituted after the disaster. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration flew its first test flight after the disaster almost a year ago, and the second was to follow just weeks later. But a problem with shedding foam persisted, even after the space agency spent more than a year and hundreds of millions of dollars to correct it. The Columbia disintegrated while returning from a research mission on Feb. 1, 2003, after being critically damaged at liftoff when a piece of foam weighing 1.67 pounds broke from its external fuel tank and struck its left wing. That opened a crack that admitted superheated gases when the craft re-entered earth's atmosphere. Advertisement When the highly modified Discovery flew last year, much less foam debris fell. But the tank still shed several unacceptably large pieces, weighing up to a pound, that could have done severe damage. NASA grounded the fleet and removed 35 more pounds of foam from critical areas. This month, mission managers pronounced the Discovery ready to fly again, even though some engineers argued that more needed to be done. Advertisement Defending the decision, NASA's administrator, Michael D. Griffin, said that falling foam might pose a danger to the shuttle but not to the crew, because the astronauts could find a haven, if necessary, on the orbiting space station; another shuttle could then be sent to retrieve them. (Mr. Griffin did add, however, that another serious accident could end the shuttle program.) The shuttle fleet is scheduled to fly 16 more missions to complete work on the half-finished space station and possibly to service the Hubble Space Telescope. The three remaining shuttles — Discovery, Atlantis and Endeavour — are scheduled to be retired in 2010. "If we're going to fly, we need to accept some programmatic risks — not crew risks — and get on with it," Dr. Griffin said. The Discovery's crew members, experienced astronauts and rookies alike, say they are eager to get under way. "The crew is ready, we're ready," said the mission commander, Col. Steven W. Lindsey of the Air Force, who has flown three previous missions. The main goals of the 12-day flight are to test the post-Columbia modifications and procedures, perform maintenance on the space station and deliver critical supplies, and deliver a new crew member to the station. Until the Columbia disaster, the space station had three astronauts. Without regular shuttle visits, the station had provisions for only two. But now Thomas Reiter, a German astronaut with the European Space Agency, will join Pavel Vinogradov of Russia and Jeffrey Williams of the United States, who are about halfway through their 180-day stay. Station managers said the additional crewman would allow the astronauts to move beyond maintaining the research outpost to performing more science. To inspect for possible in-flight damage to the Discovery, NASA has mounted additional cameras on the shuttle since the last mission; every aspect of liftoff will be examined for possible problems. Video cameras at the top of each rocket booster look down on the fuel tank, and new ones on the bottom look up. One on the tank looks at the shuttle's belly, and a digital camera will take photographs of the fuel tank after it drops away. Expanded observations of the flight will also take place on the ground. More than 100 cameras and radar devices at 25 widely scattered sites will make high-definition images of the shuttle from numerous angles. As with the previous launching, this one will be done in daylight so the fuel tank can be easily photographed as it drops into the ocean thousands of miles from Cape Canaveral. Advertisement The inspection will continue as the shuttle heads to the space station. Astronauts will extend a 50-foot, Canadian-built robot arm that has a 50-foot boom with a camera and a laser imager. The crew will spend seven hours moving the boom along critical parts of the shuttle's heat-protection system looking for potential problems areas, and will relay the data to the ground for closer examination. Upon approaching the space station, Colonel Lindsey will stop the Discovery about 600 feet away and execute a tricky maneuver that should take about eight minutes. He will rotate the 100-ton orbiter nose-up in a full circle, allowing the station crew to take detailed photographs of the shuttle. Once done, Colonel Lindsey and the Discovery's pilot, Mark E. Kelly, a Navy commander who flew on one earlier mission, will dock the shuttle to the station.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The two spacecraft will be attached for about a week, during which time the Discovery will unload tons of supplies and new equipment carried in an Italian-made module called Leonardo. The cargo transfer will be supervised by Stephanie D. Wilson, a first-time astronaut, who will also use the station's robot arm to move Leonardo from the shuttle's cargo bay to the station and back again. Two spacewalks are planned during the mission, with a  third possible if controllers determine that the Discovery has enough power and oxygen for an extra day at the station. Piers J. Sellers, a veteran of a previous flight and three spacewalks, and Michael E. Fossum, on his first mission, will venture outside to repair a mini-railcar system that transports equipment. The pair will also attach a work platform to the end of the shuttle's robot arm and extension boom to see if it can serve as a stable platform that would allow astronauts to reach previously inaccessible parts of the shuttle to repair damage. The Discovery's flight engineer, Cmdr. Lisa M. Nowak of the Navy, who is on her first mission, will operate the robot arm during the spacewalks. If a third walk is possible, the astronauts will tests methods that could be used to repair damage to the heat shields on the shuttle's wing and nose. If the mission is successful, N. Wayne Hale Jr., the chief of the shuttle program, said NASA could launch the Atlantis as early as Aug. 28 to resume construction of the space station. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F2 of the New York edition with the headline: Shuttle Is Set for Liftoff Saturday, With All Eyes on the Fuel Tank.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »