Advertisement By DR. ELIZABETH NABELAPRIL 17, 2007
 Dr. Elizabeth Nabel, a practicing cardiologist and researcher studying the genesis of plaque in coronary arteries, became director of the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute on Feb. 1, 2005. Her answers to readers’ questions about heart disease appear below. Editor's Note: New answers were added on April 26, 2007 Q. What questions should I ask of my hospital emergencyfacility about their capacity to provide full service to a personundergoing a heart attack? - Paul Taxey Here are some suggested questions to ask: a. What treatmentsare available for heart attack at your facility (e.g., "clot busting"drugs, coronary or balloon angioplasty, coronary bypass surgery ifneeded)? (It is ideal to have all of these available.) b. Ifcoronary angioplasty is available, for how many hours is thecatheterization lab staffed by an interventional cardiologist who is ahospital staff member and for what days of the week?  (Ideally it wouldbe available 24/7 or at least have someone on-call 24/7) Advertisement c. What percentage of patients treated with a clot-busting drug aretreated within 30 minutes or less? What percentage of coronary orballoon angioplasty patients are treated within 90 minutes or less? Advertisement d. If angioplasty or coronary bypass surgery is not available,are transfer agreements in place along with a transport system to ensuretimely treatment elsewhere? Where is the patient transported and whodetermines that? e. What diagnostic tests are available to checkfor a heart attack or acute coronary syndrome in the emergencydepartment? f. How many patients with chest pain and how manywith heart attack are treated at your facility each year? g. Howmany diagnostic catheterizations (angiography), angioplasties, emergencyangioplasties for heart attack, and coronary bypass operations are doneat your facility each year? Q. Thanks for taking our questions. I occasionally havesymptoms of heartburn and/or one or another type of reflux, which seemto mimic those ascribed to heart attacks. (Once, while on vacation, Idid go to the local ER, resulting primarily in nearly a year’s worth ofinsurance hassles.) These symptoms don't seem to occur frequently enoughto warrant daily medication. Knowing how symptoms can vary and that agood diagnosis may be as much great art as great science, do you have asuggestion for those of us who have learned that what would appear to bean MI is almost certainly not? - C. Ferullo Thank you for your question. A pain or burning sensation in the chestcould be indicative of a heart attack, or less life-threateningconditions such as heartburn. Anytime you experience new or unusualpains or other feelings in your chest, it's important to seek medicalattention. You obviously did the right thing to go see a doctor when youexperienced problems. The symptoms associated with a heart attack and heartburn have somedifferences, although often it is difficult to distinguish them.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. If you have severe, crushing chest pain that lasts for more than a fewminutes, or other symptoms of a heart attack, call 911 and get immediatemedical help. Do not be alone or isolate yourself from other people anddo not drive yourself to the hospital. Advertisement Heartburn does not actually involve your heart. The condition gets itsname because the symptoms associated with it typically are located inthe chest. Heartburn is caused by small amounts of digestive acidescaping from the stomach and moving toward the throat. This acidirritates the esophagus, and produces the common “burning” feelingdescribed by people who experience it. Other symptoms include a feelingthat small amounts of food or liquid are coming back up. This is oftenaccompanied by a bitter or acidy taste in the mouth. For most people, heartburn typically occurs after eating a meal. Largemeals, and certain foods, are more likely to trigger the burningsensation. Although the foods that cause heartburn are different fordifferent people, generally foods that are high in fat, spicy or highlyacidic (such as orange juice) are identified as being the culprits.Drinking alcohol or caffeine-rich beverages (coffee, soda, tea) andusing tobacco products also can cause heartburn for many people. Layingdown makes the pain worse for most people. The use of a liquid or tablet antacid relieves the symptoms of heartburnfor many people. If your heartburn persists, gets worse over time, doesnot fully go away after taking medicines, causes vomiting, appetiteloss, or tarry, black stools, see a physician. Heart disease is the leading killer in this country. If you have highblood pressure, high blood cholesterol level, or high blood sugar level,be sure to treat and control them. If you are a smoker, quit it. Bephysically active and fit. Your doctor can help you manage theseconditions that could lead to a heart attack, but you are the one whoshould put your own health as a top priority. Recognize the symptoms The list below shows some basic differences between symptoms of a heartattack and heartburn. It is not intended to take the place of a visitto, or discussion with, a qualified health professional. Furthermore,not all heart attacks occur with the same symptoms, and not all of thesymptoms below have to be present. Heart Attack We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »