Advertisement By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D.NOV. 28, 2006
 Every day, as usual in this season of charity, pleas for money arrive in the mail. Thumbing through them, I realize all over again that there is only one good cause I have any real enthusiasm for, and she is not accepting donations. She came in to see me last month, after a long hiatus. Frankly, I thought she was dead. But no, she had simply fallen through the cracks, as we like to term all the various ways people can get lost in our so-called system. With an income right at the Medicaid cutoff, so that some months they have health insurance and some months they don’t, they teeter at the edge of one crack. With a half-dozen chronic medical problems that are too stable for the hospital, but too misery-making to leave them much enthusiasm for getting out of bed, they straddle another. With a telephone that keeps getting cut off for lack of payment they wander along a third. And with a steely determination to take nothing from anyone you risk toppling into the most dangerous one of all, the crack that will swallow them up and never let them go. Advertisement Pretty and petite on the outside, this woman has the granite soul of a pioneer or a patriarch. All she wants is to go it on her own. Advertisement All I want is to write her a check. She is every good cause built into one. Once a perfectly ordinary working citizen, she has had a run of the worst luck imaginable. Her husband is dead, and her career is a vague memory from the 1990s, as is the last day she felt really well. At times there is no food in the house. Her pain is better some days than others but never goes away. Her bathroom ceiling is falling in. With all this, she is dignified, well groomed, cheerful and polite. So are her children, both heading for college on some unclear combination of grit and magic. Others in her position demand the moon. She tells us she just needs a few weeks to get herself together and she’ll start looking for work, so thanks so much, but the usual resources we muster in cases like hers, from disability payments to home-delivered meals, won’t be necessary. Occasionally, health and money have little to do with each other. In her case, the relation could not be clearer. If she keeps on her present trajectory, she’ll be lucky to live another year. Were I to concentrate all my charitable giving on her for a while, I bet I could buy her decades. The idea is preposterous. Even if she would take money, doctors simply do not give it. We give our time and skills; we give out tests, advice and little pieces of paper written in Latin. The various ethical codes that guide our behavior go into some detail about when and from whom we should not accept money. They never bother to discuss when we should not give it out, because, in theory, we never do.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The theory is reasonable: the relationship with patients is complex enough without adding yet another layer of guilt, obligation and responsibility. But the practice is something else again. Some situations simply leave no alternative but to give. A few years ago, the head of a kidney transplant program in Illinois found herself in such a situation; she wound up giving a patient one of her kidneys. Similarly, if less heroically, it is not possible to work among the destitute without scrounging around in your pocket from time to time. A few dollars for lunch, a twenty to last the weekend: usually all is repaid promptly, with thanks. Once a patient vanished with the loan, missing appointments for almost a year. When she finally showed up again, the first thing she did was press $20 into my hand. “Couldn’t come back without it,” she said. I felt like a fool, having managed to completely undermine her medical care with my charity. But despite this instructive lesson, I still indulge in fantasies of saving my needy patient with a solid hunk of cash, an anonymous check — enough to buy her food and transportation; expert, consistent medical care; a few treats; and a little something in the bank. It is an idiotic fantasy. But perhaps no more idiotic than for me to write out checks this month that will cover an infinitesimal fraction of some giant charity’s overhead. No more idiotic than for me to labor over Latin incantations on little scraps of paper in the illusion that they alone will make a difference in my patient’s health and life. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F5 of the New York edition with the headline: A Favorite Charity That Won’t Accept Donations.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »