Advertisement By ERIC NAGOURNEYAUG. 8, 2006
 The occasional visit to a doctor’s office may not  yield enough information to determine if someone is suffering from early dementia. But in a new study, researchers report that when they put motion detectors in the homes of older patients with mild cognitive impairment, they found that after just four weeks, the sensors picked up patterns of movement recognizably different from those found in healthy volunteers. The study, led by Dr. Tamara L. Hayes of Oregon Health and Science University, was presented recently at the International Conference on Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Disorders. Detecting early dementia, the researchers said, would let families begin therapy early on and make decisions about what they will do if it becomes severe. As it stands, they said, a patient worried about changes in his ability to remember things would go to a doctor and be given a small number of tests under limited time conditions. Advertisement “Because of normal variability in how a person feels on the day of their clinic visit,” the authors wrote, “and because the clinic visits are typically spaced many months or even years apart, it may take years to identify a clear downward trend in cognitive or motor measures that indicate the early stages of Alzheimer’s disease.” With motion detectors, the researchers said, doctors can gather information several times a day over a long period. Advertisement In the study, detectors were installed for as long as 60 weeks in the homes of a small group of healthy volunteers and those with early signs of dementia. Volunteers who were impaired took longer to walk around, and the differences were most noticeable in the afternoon. The study also found that as a general rule, the impaired patients’ movement patterns were more varied than the healthy volunteers’. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F6 of the New York edition with the headline: Motion Detectors Double as Alzheimer’s Monitors.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »