Advertisement By DENISE GRADYMAY 16, 2006
 In the antiseptic prose of medical journals, he was "the lung recipient," she "the liver recipient." In real life, they were two desperately ill people who received transplants last August from the same organ donor, a brain-dead accident victim. Thanks to the surgery, they had a second chance at life. Or so it seemed. For two weeks they fared well, he at the University of Pittsburgh and she at New York University Medical Center. But then, suddenly, they began to run fevers, deteriorate mentally and struggle for breath. Seizures and paralysis followed, and they sank into comas. Tests found the West Nile virus. Both patients had been infected by the donor, whose blood was tested only after the recipients got sick. Two other patients received his kidneys, but remained well. The disease took its worst possible course in the liver and lung recipients, causing encephalitis, a brain infection. When the cases were first reported in October, both were still in comas. Doctors tried an experimental treatment, a serum made from the blood of people who had developed immunity to West Nile, but it did not help. Neither recovered. The woman who received the liver remained paralyzed and unresponsive, on a ventilator, according to her surgeon, Dr. Lewis W. Teperman, director of transplantation at New York University. After 68 days her family withdrew life support, and she died. Dr. Teperman said he did not have the family's permission to identify her. Advertisement The second patient, Dr. Sabih Aburegiaba, 69, is still alive. He is on a ventilator at a hospital in Queens, barely responsive, his prognosis uncertain and his family struggling to find the proper level of care for him. Advertisement The cases were the rarest of events: in 2005, more than 28,000 transplants were done. These two patients are the only ones known to have become ill from West Nile. Even so, the cases sent a chill through the transplant world and prompted experts to recommend new procedures to try to protect patients, Dr. Teperman said. West Nile virus is becoming more common in the United States, he said, and although it does not cause serious illness in most people, in transplant patients it can be a catastrophe, because the drugs they take to prevent organ rejection also suppress their ability to fight infections. Their risk of developing a brain infection from West Nile is about 40 times as great as that of someone who has not had a transplant. "We've got a problem that's going to rear its head some more," Dr. Teperman said, adding that the worry increases this time of year as the mosquito season begins. "It is so disheartening to have done a transplant and then see them unable to move, and to wonder if they can even respond to your voice." The second patient, Dr. Aburegiaba, was a kidney specialist in New York who took care of patients until just a few months before the transplant, stopping only when his illness made him too short of breath to work anymore. He had pulmonary fibrosis, a progressive scarring of the lungs. Its cause was unknown, but he had chronic heartburn, and doctors suspected that condition might have caused him to inhale stomach acid that gradually damaged his lungs. For the first two weeks after the transplant, Dr. Aburegiaba felt better than he had in years, said his daughter, Debbie Linehan, 28. "He was on top of the world," Ms. Linehan said. She was to be married in September, and her father was determined to walk her down the aisle and dance at her wedding. He pushed himself hard in physical therapy, began regaining his strength and told colleagues he would be back to work by December. Advertisement Sixteen days after the operation, Dr. Aburegiaba left the hospital. But just hours later he had to be rushed back, feverish and struggling to breathe. Soon, he was in a coma. Doctors in Pittsburgh held out little hope that he would recover, said Dr. Bruce Johnson, a lung specialist there. They discussed with the family the option of withdrawing care if the situation seemed hopeless. But in interviews, Ms. Linehan and her mother and stepmother, Dr. Aburegiaba's current wife, said stopping treatment was out of the question. He loved life and would want every chance to recover, they said. He never signed a living will, and he talked relatives out of withholding care from a family member who had suffered a stroke, and who then recovered. He was appalled by Terry Schiavo's death. He was transferred to another hospital, still in a coma. But starting in November, at a rehabilitation center in New York, his progress was "astounding," Dr. Johnson said, based on reports from doctors and nurses there. Dr. Aburegiaba regained some movement in his arms and appeared to respond to doctors and relatives. More recently, though, he has declined again, perhaps from other infections. His doctors say his outlook is unclear, and there is nothing to do but wait. Dr. Teperman said the cases galvanized transplant doctors and health officials. "It was very sobering to have this virus beat us," he said, "and over the past six or nine months we've been trying to make sure nobody else gets beat." Dr. Matthew Kuehnert, an expert on transfusion and transplant safety at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said: "I think organ safety as concerns infectious disease transmission is really underappreciated. It's something that really needs to be looked at more closely." In the last few years a handful of patients have died from infections transmitted by transplants, including rabies and a rodent virus that rarely harms healthy people, and Dr. Kuehnert said such illnesses could become more of a problem as transplants continue to increase and new infections emerge.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But a major concern among transplant experts is that donor organs are scarce, and unless tests to screen for infection are quick and accurate, they could lead to healthy organs mistakenly being thrown away, killing more patients than the tests might save. There are 92,268 people on waiting lists in the United States, far more than the 28,000 or so who got transplants last year. Many die waiting. "You don't want to tip the scales so that you're causing more deaths because you're holding organs back," Dr. Kuehnert said. "On the other hand, it's important to understand there's a patient safety issue here." Advertisement Before 1999, West Nile virus had not been detected in the United States. It popped up that summer with a few cases in New York. By 2002 it had spread  across the country, and the Centers for Disease Control declared it "permanently established in the Western Hemisphere." It has now reached nearly every state. Last year, 3,000 cases were reported, but the actual number could be much higher because many people have mild symptoms or none at all. But those people could still infect organ recipients. Donated blood is screened for West Nile; last year, 417 donors tested positive, and their blood was not given to patients. But no laboratory test is perfect. Often, doctors have to choose between tests that err on one side or the other — missing a few cases or mislabeling some normal samples as infected. In the case of blood, it would be far worse to transfuse an infected unit than to throw away some good ones. But mistakenly rejecting even one organ donor could cost half a dozen patients' lives. So transplant experts are trying to figure out the best way to use the existing, admittedly imperfect tests to protect their patients. There are two ways to look for West Nile infection. One is to test the donor's blood for genetic material from the virus. Late last year, prompted in part by the transplant cases, the Food and Drug Administration sped up its evaluation and approval of such a test, allowing it to be used for both blood and organs. But the test is not foolproof. In theory a person could have virus levels too low  to detect, yet high enough to make a transplant recipient sick. Doctors also do not know if it is possible for the virus to lurk in organs after it has left the blood. And not all laboratories can perform the test, so it may not always be possible to get results in time. Another way of testing is to check the donor for West Nile antibodies, proteins made by the body in response to the infection. These tests are easier and faster than the genetic ones. But the results can be tricky to interpret. Someone recently infected may not have antibodies yet. Someone infected long ago may still have antibodies yet be virus-free. The donor who infected the lung and liver patients shows how hard the testing can be. He lived in a part of the Bronx where mosquitoes carrying the disease had been found, and had probably been infected by a bite. But when he died, donors were not being screened for West Nile. A sample of his stored blood was tested later. Tests for the virus were negative, but the antibody tests were positive. Tests on various organ samples also failed to find the virus. No one knows why. Advertisement Given the uncertainty, and the competing needs to protect recipients and yet salvage every possible organ, Dr. Teperman said several changes were being recommended to lower the West Nile risk. But he said they were suggestions, not rules. One is that during mosquito season West Nile tests would be done on all live organ donors — healthy people who donate a kidney or part of their liver. Most live-donor operations are not done on an urgent basis, so there is plenty of time for the testing, he said. Another recommendation is that brain-dead donors with unexplained encephalitis or meningitis be rejected. Until recently, many transplant centers accepted them. In addition, he said, brain-dead donors from known West Nile "hot spots" should have virus and antibody tests before their organs are removed, and should be rejected if either test comes back positive. Most, he said, are stable enough to be kept on life support while the tests are being done. Dr. Teperman emphasized that experts were recommending tests only when there was a reason to be concerned, not universal screening. "We can't exclude everyone who got bit by a mosquito," he said. Dr. Aburegiaba is in a kind of medical limbo. He has been shuttled to one institution after another, largely because of insurance issues and the payers' doubts about his potential to recover. At this point, Ms. Linehan said, the family hopes he will become stable enough to be taken home and cared for there, even on a ventilator. The family is distraught, but also frustrated and angry, wondering why the donor was not tested, why the diagnosis was not made sooner, and whether the outcome would have been any different if it had. They say they feel that a man who devoted his career to saving the lives of others has been let down by his own profession. Doctors have no answers. Dr. Johnson said, "With the current state of the art, this will probably remain a rare but catastrophic complication that we do our best to prevent." A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F6 of the New York edition with the headline: For Two Transplant Patients, a Dire Complication: West Nile.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »