Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
 HENRY FOUNTAIN
 
JUNE 13, 2006
 The millipede has a credibility problem. Despite the name, no millipede has a thousand feet. Most of them have a paltry 300 or fewer. The one that comes closest to living up to the name, Illacme plenipes, was discovered in the 1920's, in Central California. One specimen, slightly more than an inch long, had 750 legs, making it the leggiest animal in the world. Then plenipes scooted off, never to be seen again. Until now. A doctoral student at East Carolina University, Paul E. Marek, has rediscovered it. Mr. Marek, who is studying Appalachian millipedes for his dissertation, had heard about plenipes. Last Thanksgiving, while visiting his family in California, he and his brother decided to look for it. The original description of the species from the 1920's had included only a vague location. But Mr. Marek used his knowledge of millipedes, and of Central California ecology, and found it in an afternoon in San Benito County, east of Monterey Bay. (He is not disclosing the exact location for fear that millipede-seekers may harm the habitat.) The rediscovery was reported last week in Nature. Advertisement Of Mr. Marek's dozen specimens, one has 666 legs. Plenipes embryos have only six legs; the creature adds four-legged segments as it grows, continuing to do so even after sexual maturity. Advertisement Like other millipedes, plenipes displays extraordinary coordination when walking. The legs lift up, move forward and set down in synchronized waves, with three or four waves at any time. The only known video of plenipes in motion can be seen here. Too Warm for Coral's Algae Rising ocean temperatures are a grave threat to coral reefs, causing the die-off of the symbiotic algae that live within coral tissues. The more water temperatures increase, the more bleaching events can be expected. But can corals save themselves? Research suggests that under certain circumstances they can, by "shuffling" the type of algae they house to more heat-tolerant strains. A study by Ray Berkelmans and Madeleine van Oppen of the Australian Institute of Marine Science has demonstrated this shuffling in corals transplanted from a cool-water site on the Great Barrier Reef to a warmer-water one. The researchers studied Acropora millepora, a very common stony coral found in the Indian and Pacific Oceans. As with other corals, the symbiotic algae in millepora colonies are largely of one type, with very small amounts of a second type. The colonies from the cool-water site contained what scientists call Type C algae, with small amounts of the more heat-tolerant Type D. The corals underwent bleaching in the warm water the summer after they were transplanted but recovered the next year. Analysis of the recovered coral showed that it contained just Type D. After the Type C die-off, the Type D took over. The findings were published online last week by The Proceedings of the Royal Society B. Advertisement Symbiont shuffling like this, the researchers say, provides a degree of thermal protection for the coral — enabling them to survive water temperature increases of 2 to 3 degrees Fahrenheit. With ocean temperatures predicted to increase more than that in coming decades, that might not be enough. But the researchers say it could buy some time for reefs until humans can reduce the emission of heat-trapping gases and slow the pace of warming.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. When Birds Burn More Energy In animal species that produce multiple offspring, there is usually a trade-off between quantity and quality. The more offspring one has, particularly at one time, the more likely that some of them, at least, will be less fit. Competition for food during development is the usual culprit. But can the number of offspring affect fitness over the long term, into adulthood? That is what Simon Verhulst of the University of Groningen in the Netherlands and colleagues wanted to find out. They studied zebra finches, manipulating brood size so that some chicks were raised with one or two others and some in broods of five or six. Thirteen months later, the birds' metabolic rate was measured. The findings were published last week in Biology Letters. The researchers discovered that independent of mass, birds raised in larger broods had a metabolic rate about 9 percent higher than that of birds from smaller broods. The effect was more pronounced in females than males. The finding is in line with other studies that have shown that zebra finches raised in large broods tend to have shorter lifespans, with females dying sooner than males. The current study only infers a connection between higher metabolic rate and longevity. But such a link makes sense. A higher metabolic rate means that birds have to spend more time foraging and may be more affected by fluctuations in the food supply or by climatic conditions that increase energy needs. Life is tougher for a bird that burns energy faster. Regardless of a connection, though, the study shows that the conditions under which rearing occurs can have long-term effects on fitness. Baking Powder as a Landmark A signature event in the history of baking was celebrated yesterday in East Providence, R.I. The formulation of baking powder — sodium bicarbonate (baking soda) and calcium acid phosphate, with corn starch to absorb moisture — in the 1850's by Eben Horsford, a Harvard chemist, was designated a National Chemical Historic Landmark by the American Chemical Society. Horsford and a business partner founded the Rumford Chemical Works in East Providence to market the product. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F3 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »