Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
 HENRY FOUNTAIN
 
MARCH 20, 2007
 Nitrogen oxides, the reactive gases that contribute to smog near the ground and help regulate ozone far above it, are not made by cars and industry alone. A lot of NOx, as the various gases are collectively known, is made by lightning. Atmospheric scientists would like to know how much, to better understand processes related to pollution and climate change. But only indirect measurements have been made, by taking air samples from storm clouds. It took lightning researchers to make the first direct measurements — touching off lightning by sending a small rocket into an electrically charged thundercloud at the International Center for Lightning Research and Testing in Camp Blanding, Fla. “We put that lightning through a bottle,” said Martin A. Uman, a University of Florida professor and co-director of the center, describing the experimental process. “Then we sucked the air out and measured the nitrogen oxides.” Advertisement When the rocket is launched, it travels about 1,000 feet into the air, trailing a thin copper wire that is attached to the test chamber. The rocket sets off a discharge in the cloud, acting, as Dr. Uman put it, “like the top of the Empire State Building,” which frequently induces lightning. Advertisement There is a wave of what is called continuous-current lightning through the cloud, and lightning travels down the wire to the test chamber, where it jumps a one-inch gap between two electrodes. The intense heat of the arc ionizes nitrogen and oxygen, which recombine in various forms as the air cools. By knowing the length of the arc, and precisely measuring the NOx produced, the researchers came up with a number. For the record, lightning produces 2 to 3 times 1020 molecules of NOx per meter of lightning per coulomb (a unit of charge), Dr. Uman, M. Mahbubur Rahman of Uppsala University in Sweden and others report in Geophysical Research Letters. Atmospheric scientists had long assumed that most of the NOx was created by powerful “return” strokes, what most people think of as lightning. But the research shows that discharges within clouds, which are much less dramatic, play a greater role. “It’s not the bright, impulsive thing you see” that’s creating all the NOx, Dr. Uman said. “It’s the tail end of what you see.” Decoding a Neighbor’s Call A couple of years ago, researchers at the University of Montana discovered that black-capped chickadees are pretty clever. The birds, they found, encode their warning calls to other chickadees with information about the degree of threat posed by a particular nearby predator. The lead researcher in that study, Christopher N. Templeton, who has moved on to the doctoral program at the University of Washington, now reports that if chickadees are clever, red-breasted nuthatches are cleverer still. The nuthatches, which are about the same size and share many of the same habitats as chickadees, don’t have to depend on warning calls of their own — they can eavesdrop on the chickadees to get the information they need. Mr. Templeton and Erick Greene, another of the original researchers who is an associate professor of biology at the University of Montana, used an experimental  setup that was similar to that used with the first study, recording chickadee calls in response to different predators and playing them back for nuthatches.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. A chickadee’s call is shorter — with fewer “dees” at the end — if the predator is a great horned owl or some similar large, slower-moving bird. The call is longer if the predator is a smaller nimble bird like a northern pygmy owl, which is more of a threat. Chickadees respond to the greater threat by more “mobbing” behavior, approaching the predator and harassing it by making noise. Advertisement The researchers found that nuthatches responded with agitation and mobbing behavior as well, and that, just as among chickadees themselves, the behavior was stronger if the call was longer. The findings are being published in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. While it is not unknown for one species to eavesdrop on another, the researchers say this is the first example of one species learning to decode the information in another’s calls.  The Color of Fertile Soil Gardeners know a general rule of thumb about soil: the darker it is, the more organic matter it contains. That may be enough information if all you are growing is some tomatoes and zukes in the backyard. But soil scientists need more specific information about organic carbon content — data from across a landscape — to better understand how certain processes, like erosion and the exchange of carbon with the atmosphere, affect it throughout a region. Direct laboratory analysis of many soil samples for carbon content is expensive, though, so over the years researchers have tried indirect means, including remote sensing. Another approach is a more refined version of darker-is-better: judging soil by its color. Scientists have used color for decades to broadly categorize different kinds of soils; a comparison method called the Munsell color system has even been developed to do that. But Skye A. Wills of the University of Maryland and colleagues at Iowa State University wanted to see if they could use color measurements in the field to rapidly and accurately predict organic carbon content. They tested soils from northeastern Iowa using both color chips from the Munsell system and a spectrophotometer, which analyzes the frequency of light (and thus the color) reflected off a surface. Their findings were published in The Soil Science Society of America Journal. They found that their approach could work, although there are  limitations. For one thing, the best predictor of carbon content came from factoring in both Munsell and spectrophotometer data along with information about the depth of the sample. And while the method proved reliable for farmland, the researchers say more work is needed make it useful for prairie soils. Bacteria With a Taste for Oil Scientists at Nankai University in China have sequenced the genome of an oil-eating bacterium found in a deep reservoir in Northern China. The bug, Geobacillus thermodenitrificans NG80-2, breaks down long-chain alkanes, and the scientists report in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences that they have identified the key enzyme responsible. It’s called LadA, and the researchers say it may be useful in cleaning up oil spills. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F3 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »