Advertisement 

 Claudia Dreifus
 
 
A CONVERSATION WITH
MARCH 13, 2007
 BALTIMORE — There’s something striking about the laboratory of Michael F. Summers at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County. It’s not the giant nuclear magnetic resonance machine that he uses to visualize molecules; it’s the faces of the people who work there. Fifteen of the 32 researchers in Dr. Summers’s biochemistry lab, including a postdoctoral student and 3 Ph.D. candidates, are black. In the halls of American science, such  representation is rare. Dr. Summers, 49, works on two tracks: trying to cure AIDS and trying to create more diversity at the research bench. When he is not in the lab, he takes to the road with the university president, Freeman A. Hrabowski III, pushing universities to set up programs for minority students who are inclined toward science.  At U.M.B.C., the Meyerhoff Scholarship Program has provided an intense scientific education to about 800 undergraduates so far. Q. Define the problem, please. A. Less than 3 percent of Ph.D.’s awarded in science, mathematics and engineering go to African-Americans. In my field, chemistry, it’s around 2 percent. I think there are about a dozen blacks a year who get math Ph.D.’s. The numbers don’t have to be that low. We know from the College Board that there are large numbers of blacks who want to graduate with degrees in the sciences. Many want to become doctors. But we lose them in their freshman and sophomore years. Advertisement Q. Why do they leave? A.  The big thing is that the way beginning chemistry, calculus and physics are taught at most colleges is discouraging. They are taught as gateway courses, and they are structured to weed out students. The Chem 101 professor gets up at the first session and says, “Look around you; only one person here is going to end up a chemistry major.” Advertisement That’s discouraging to everyone, but for the African-Americans, it’s really negative. These are young people who — because of history — may already feel that society has low expectations of them. The crunch comes after the first exam when the black youngster might pull a C and when some of the whites and international students get A’s. When he or she goes up to the professor, he says, “Listen, you passed, what’s your complaint?” And the student thinks, “Maybe the professor is right, I don’t belong here.” Q. What should the professor have said instead? A. “How many hours a night are you studying?” “Can I help you find a study group so that you can do better?” Q. What do you do differently in the Meyerhoff program? A. We take minority students — those with very high SATs and high school grades — and we offer them full scholarships. We compete for them with the Ivy Leagues and we focus on retaining them as science majors. We provide the same kind of nurturance they might get at the traditionally black colleges, but we do some extra things, too.  In the summer between high school and college, we have a “bridge program” showing the students what it will take to excel in science. We say, “we expect you to get A’s,” and we show them how to study so they’ll get them. Then, at the end of the first year, they develop research projects and find a professor to accept them into their laboratory. There, they’ll get hands-on experience with experimentation and discovery — plus they’ll find mentors. Q. Why move them into the lab so quickly? A. Because the president of this university, Freeman Hrabowski — who is himself a mathematician and statistician — believes it takes a scientist to make a scientist. He knows that mentoring is a key element of any scientist’s training. In the past, black students sometimes had trouble finding a mentor. This works. We’ve tracked students who’d been invited to join the program, but who chose to go to elsewhere. The Meyerhoff Scholars were five times more likely to enter graduate school and twice as likely to eventually have science careers.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Q. I’ve heard it said that there is something inherent in scientific culture that’s uninviting to African-Americans. Is that  true? A. We have a once-a-year retreat where we talk, and the students tell of some astonishing experiences.  For instance, one spoke about how she and her white male classmate went to a scientific conference together. They put posters up on their research, side by side. The white guy had a whole bunch of people come up to him and ask about his research. The young black woman had two people ask about her project. Advertisement I invited a former Meyerhoff, a Harvard post-doc, who had solved the structure of a very important protein, to speak at a professional meeting. She arrived early, and people asked her how the projector worked. Because she was black, they assumed she was from maintenance. Q. What is your  area of research? A. In a nutshell, we take pictures of parts of viruses, mainly H.I.V. We want to understand how the virus works. The virus is like a little engine, with lots of different parts. If you can figure out how all the parts fit together, then maybe you can come up with a drug that keeps the parts from doing what they should. From work we’ve done, we now know that one of the H.I.V. parts has to undergo a change in shape for the virus to become infectious. And we’ve discovered a new class of drugs that actually binds to that part and keeps it from changing shape. Those drugs don’t work in humans yet, but they do work on cells in test tubes. Q. You talk a great deal about mentors. Who were yours? A. My father, who grew up really poor in a mining town in West Virginia and put himself through school on the G.I. Bill. A very important one was a middle school science teacher, Joseph Cummings. Until Mr. Cummings, I’d only had white teachers, and he was black. He was incredibly enthusiastic about science. He sparked my interest in it. Till then, I’d thought that blacks were not that well educated and that they were, in general, very angry. And here was this black science teacher, and he was opening up worlds to all the students, white and black. He changed me about race and science. Another mentor was Isiah M. Warner, an analytical chemist at Emory University, where I did my graduate work. He couldn’t get his Ph.D. at L.S.U. because he was black. Today, he’s a dean there and they are producing more black chemistry Ph.D.’s than any other school in the country. Finally, there’s Freeman Hrabowski, who, at age 12, went to jail with Dr. Martin Luther King in Birmingham, Ala. This program was his idea. He inspired me to believe there was something that I could do — me, a white Southern male — to help level the playing field. Q. Has your research suffered because of your diversity work? A. I don’t think so. I’ve published in Science and Nature. But if I knew that I wasn’t going to be on this earth tomorrow, it wouldn’t be those papers that would give me the greatest satisfaction, it would be the things I’ve done here with Freeman. So far, we’ve graduated about 550 Meyerhoffs, and 271 of them went on to do graduate work in a scientific area. That’s what really warms my heart. An article in Science Times on Tuesday about Michael F. Summers, a biochemist who promotes training programs to increase diversity in science, misstated his age. He is 49, not 59. The article also misstated the given name of an analytical chemist whom Dr. Summers named as one of his mentors. He is Isiah Warner, not Isaiah Warner. An article in Science Times on March 13 about efforts to increase the number of minority students studying science referred imprecisely to the Meyerhoff Scholarship Program at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County. Although the program indeed emphasizes the need for more minority students, it is open to any undergraduate. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F2 of the New York edition with the headline: Goal No. 1: Good Science. Goal No. 1: Diversity.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »