Advertisement By WILLIAM J. BROADDEC. 15, 2014
 National parks have been set up for mountains, rivers, caves, rock formations, glaciers, forests, canyons, fossils, deserts, hot springs and volcanoes. Now, lawmakers have decided that the nation needs one for the atom bomb. On Friday, the Senate joined the House in passing legislation to establish the Manhattan Project National Historical Park, memorializing the secretive World War II effort that involved some of the world’s top scientists and, in total, more than a half million Americans. The park will protect hundreds of surviving buildings and artifacts across three states — New Mexico, Washington and Tennessee — where the first bomb came to life 70 years ago. The sites vary from the rustic home of J. Robert Oppenheimer, the project’s scientific head, to a pioneering reactor that made nuclear fuel, to a large Quonset hut for bomb assembly. The measure awaits President Obama’s signature, which is expected this week. Cynthia C. Kelly, president of the Atomic Heritage Foundation, a private group in Washington, D.C., said she had worked on the preservation plan for 15 years and was thrilled it had finally come to pass. Advertisement “It’s hard to believe,” she said in an interview. “This turned out to be the moment. It’s rather amazing.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Among the sites to be preserved include an isolated cabin where grim scientific findings threw the secretive war effort into a panic. Advertisement Amid the seclusion of Los Alamos, N.M., scientists used the remote cabin as headquarters for a critical experiment to see if plutonium could fuel the bomb. Early in 1944, sensitive measurements showed that the silvery metal underwent a high rate of spontaneous fission — a natural process of atoms splitting in two. The surprise finding meant the plutonium bomb would fail. Oppenheimer, the project’s scientific head, considered resigning. But he and his colleagues pressed ahead with a new design. Before dawn on July 16, 1945, the world’s first atom bomb — powered by a lump of plutonium about the size of a grapefruit — lit up the New Mexico desert, its flash brighter than the sun. A version of this article appears in print on December 16, 2014, on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: Preserving Manhattan Project Sites.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »