Advertisement FEB. 20, 2007
 Debating Climate Change To the Editor: Re “A Cool $25 Million for a Climate Backup Plan” (Findings, Feb. 13): I have to protest John Tierney’s claim that one study about two glaciers in Greenland has vindicated scientists who believe there will be no rapid melting of Greenland. According to Mr. Tierney, the flow from two glaciers decelerated last year, and that proves there is no reason for alarm. That is an outrageous claim. If two glaciers are slowing, that does not mean the other thousands of glaciers in Greenland are doing the same. This is very faulty thinking. Mr. Tierney is guilty of what he accuses Al Gore of doing — extrapolating a short-term trend into a conclusion. Arlene WilliamsSparks, Nev. • To the Editor: John Tierney suggests that we not worry much about climate change because its consequences are uncertain and far in the future, and in the meantime somebody may discover a technological quick fix. That’s like telling a smoker not to worry because it’s not certain whether he’ll develop cancer, and besides, a cure may have been found by then. Call me a worrywart, but I’d quit smoking. Ray StenPortland, Ore. The Cosmos and Religion To the Editor: Re “A Familiar and Prescient Voice, Brought to Life” (Feb. 13): I resent Dennis Overbye’s description of Carl Sagan as “one of the world’s most famous and eloquent unbelievers.” Why should religion be the basis for defining unbelief? Advertisement Carl Sagan believed in reason and the use of the scientific method as the best way to open new vistas into the wonders of the universe. He believed that humanity is part of nature, and not the product of some divine whim. Advertisement The true unbelievers are the majority of the American people, who, according to opinion polls, reject the discoveries of science as to the origins of humankind and the age of the solar system and cosmos, embracing instead a discredited biblical view.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Dennis MiddlebrooksBrooklyn • To the Editor: Carl Sagan and his cohorts display a failure of imagination when they limit their consideration of the existence of God to simply the God of the Scriptures. By beckoning us to conceive of “billions of billions,” Sagan advocated the concept of infinity. If you accept the notion of infinity, however, it is not a leap of faith to accept the notion of a God. Qualitatively, is there much difference between Sagan’s search for supra-intelligent extraterrestrial life and a search for God? The hubris of scientists is every bit the folly as the hubris of theologians. Thomas D. CramerIthaca, N.Y. The Face of Human Frailty To the Editor: Re “Crossed by the Stars They Reach For” (Feb. 13): Dennis Overbye’s essay creatively ties together some of the most embarrassing failings of some of the world’s most admirable people, but he’s missing the larger context: these behaviors are not unique to people of science or for that matter to people in the public eye. All people at some time in their lives walk a balance beam trying to achieve the most they can within the social norms, and at the same time acting on humanity’s most basic instincts and emotions. Lisa Nowak is a perfect example. She deserves to be treated with compassion by people who recognize that any one of us could have done the same thing. Larry PerlsteinDarien, Conn. Starving the Contemptible Cold To the Editor: Re “Starve a Cold, Feed a Fever” (Really?, Feb. 13): Your article left out a few key words from this quote which, by the way, came from Hippocrates. The original quote was “If you feed a cold, you will have to starve a fever.” Somehow over the centuries, the “if” got clipped — no doubt prolonging the suffering of untold multitudes who thought gluttony their best remedy. In any case, the more literal words of the renowned physician Sir William Osler should alleviate any confusion: “The cold should not be treated with contempt, but followed by bed rest, a good book to read, no food.” Consuelo ReyesNew York Science Times welcomes letters from readers. Those submitted for publication must include the writer’s name, address and telephone number. E-mail should be sent to scitimes@nytimes.com. Send letters to Science Editor, The New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y. 10036. A version of this letter appears in print on , on Page F4 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »