Advertisement JAN. 30, 2007
 Lollygags and Sidereal Days To the Editor: Re “Making Sense of Time, Earthbound and Otherwise” (Jan. 23): There is an important ambiguity in the facts that Natalie Angier presents in her otherwise excellent article: that our planet twirls on its axis every 24 hours and so gives us our days. In fact, the Earth twirls once on its axis every 23 hours, 56 minutes and 4 seconds (approximately). This so-called sidereal day measures the rotation of the Earth with respect to the stars. Because of the Earth’s movement in its orbit of the Sun, an additional (approximately) 4 minutes is needed for the Sun to reach an overhead position, the so-called 24-hour solar day. The basic concept of sidereal and solar days is far more relevant and understandable by the lay reader than the more complex measures of time that Ms. Angier presents. Richard W. PaulsonSt. Michaels, Md. • To the Editor: I was brought up short by Natalie Angier’s first column. In heaven’s name, what are “chasmic lollygags” and “tweener timed life forms?” And why use “changing annum(s)” and “universal ...tockers” when simpler, clearer phrases would do? This too-cute language almost discouraged me from reading what ultimately became an informative story. Advertisement Gerald T. Perkoff, M.D.Sanibel, Fla. Magic or Fool’s Paradise? To the Editor: Re “Do You Believe in Magic?” (Jan. 23): Benedict Carey opined that superstitious habits “have little to do with religious faith, which is much more complex,” and that those whose magical thoughts blossom into  delusion are a fundamentally different group. Advertisement But Mr. Carey also quoted a psychologist who noted that “the point at which the culture withdraws support for belief in Santa and the Tooth Fairy is about the same time it introduces children to prayer.” Who among us does not feel that televangelists who tell us God will send a terrorist attack this year, or extremists who round up innocents and torture them, are “fundamentally different” from us? Superstition, religion, self-defeating delusion and religious extremism are all part and parcel of the same problem: an irrational refusal to accept the world as it really is. Erik HondaSan Francisco • To the Editor: Of the six examples of magical thinking listed with the article’s illustration, more  investigation needs be done on “I visualize my immune system destroying the bacteria. It goes away faster.” This kind of thinking is second cousin to the placebo effect, which, as I understand it, works this way: “This pill that I am taking is genuine and my body will respond to it as expected — in curing my condition.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The patient doesn’t know that the pill was sugar, but because of the patient’s belief, the cure resulted. It may not be magic, but it sure fits the article’s description of magic. Martin NewmanLos Angeles • To the Editor: The article about magical thinking explains that a lot of otherwise rational people cling to good-luck rituals, particularly at times of stress. I have one that absolutely works. When boarding an aircraft, for good luck I touch the outer skin of the plane. It’s a skin-to-skin bonding ritual. It actually works; I have never been killed in an airplane crash. Advertisement Kenneth S. DeffeyesPrinceton, N.J. • To the Editor: Contrary to Benedict Carey’s assertion that magic rituals have “little to do with religious faith,” pick any religion and you will find a myriad of rituals that the observant perform daily to cause good things to happen or prevent bad things from taking place. It seems clear to me that those rituals have no more basis in reality, nor make any more sense, than those performed due to obsessive-compulsive disorder. In both cases, the believers are terrified of the consequences of not performing the rituals, and are comforted only when they are completely enacted. Stephanie LazarNew York No Substitute for Nutrients To the Editor: Re “An Old Cholesterol Remedy Is New Again” (Jan. 23): Medicine’s faith in pharmaceuticals is another example of how people mistakenly believe they can change fundamental processes in nature. The age-old problem with pharmaceutical treatments is that no drug can replace the function of a nutrient, in this instance niacin (vitamin B3). Drugs work — if one can call it “work” — by interfering with normal biochemical processes. In contrast, nutrients function by providing the normal biochemical substrates for more complex chemicals and reactions. All roads eventually point back to nutrition: our entire biochemistry, including our genes, depends on nutrients, not drugs. Jack ChallemTucson Science Times welcomes letters from readers. Those submitted for publication must include the writer’s name, address and telephone number. E-mail should be sent to scitimes@nytimes.com. Send letters to Science Editor, The New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y. 10036. A version of this letter appears in print on , on Page F2 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »