Advertisement By NICHOLAS BAKALARFEB. 13, 2007
 Do health warnings on cigarette packages really work? Yes, but  only if they are prominent, include graphics and have recently been updated, an international survey has found. The researchers analyzed data from 15,000 smokers in Canada, the United States, Britain and Australia. The survey, to be published in the March issue of The American Journal of Preventive Medicine, asked several questions to determine if smokers had noticed the warnings and if they had any effect. Canadian cigarettes carry a warning and illustration that covers 50 percent of the back and front of the package, and 16 versions are regularly rotated. The program began in 2000. In Britain, a text warning covered 6 percent of the front and back of the package until 2003, when a revised package appeared with 16 larger rotating warnings. Australian cigarettes carry a text covering a quarter of the front and a third of the back of the package. In the United States, there are four rotating warnings printed on the side of the pack only, and they have not changed since 1984. The Canadian design was the most effective at getting smokers to notice the warning, and the United States  package was least effective: 60 percent of Canadian smokers often noticed the warning, compared with 30 percent of smokers in the United States. The revised package in Britain nearly doubled the percentage of smokers who often took notice of it. “The two main ingredients in an effective warning are refreshing them and using pictures that communicate health risks,” said David Hammond, the study’s lead author and an assistant professor of health studies at the University of Waterloo in Ontario. “Quite simply, pictures communicate things that words alone cannot.” A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F6 of the New York edition with the headline: Pictures Trump Text on Cigarette Warnings.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »