Advertisement By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D.MARCH 27, 2007
 At some point during training, medical students often unconsciously begin to think of their patients as alien beings, members of a weak, unlucky species of unrelated biped. It is a predictable, if regrettable, psychic defense mechanism in those first difficult years of immersion in human disability and death. Fortunately, at some point in the decades after medical school, doctors often realize that they and their patients belong to the same species of unlucky biped, after all (beware the doctor who never figures this out). Sometimes it is an illness of the doctor’s own that does it or illness in the family or just a slow unclenching of the mind. But once that epiphany dawns, doctors are never the same again; they look back on their harsh and distanced younger selves with disbelief and, if they are of an analytical bent, try to figure out what happened. Two new midlife memoirs retrace this cycle of estrangement and reconnection. Michael Stein, a general internist, constructs his narrative around his brother-in-law Richard’s slow death from cancer. Richard was a tough-guy iconoclastic artist who first became sick when Dr. Stein was a young doctor and who died years later after a fairly miserable downhill course. Too self-conscious and unsure of himself to know what to say when the cancer was diagnosed, Dr. Stein recalls his silence with regret, writing: “That day I longed for a rich, fully formed vocabulary with which to speak to him about his illness and to help me understand it. I didn’t have one.” Advertisement He has learned some of the right words in the years since, Dr. Stein tells us, because he has come to understand to the emotions that patients experience when illness descends, the feeling that the body has betrayed them, the terror of the unknown, the loss of a legion of familiar comforts and the loneliness of being kidnapped into the land of the ill. Advertisement He spins long reflections on pain, disfigurement and death from the stories of some of his patients, including a healthy woman with a mysterious burning pain in both feet; a teenager with a large, benign tumor in the neck; and an ebullient patient dying from AIDS whose persistent attempts to hug Dr. Stein were persistently rebuffed, to Dr. Stein’s enduring chagrin. Unfortunately, despite the increasing empathy with the ill that has presumably made him into a better doctor, Dr. Stein the writer has retained an irritating professional characteristic. He makes large authoritative statements without explaining how he knows what he knows. “Away from their medical visits,” he writes, “patients think about illness secretly and guiltily.” “Illness rarely allows a connection with simple happiness.” “Patients like sympathy but don’t trust it.” Sometimes he waxes oracular: “When everything has gone wrong, my patients need me to remind them of what is right; the right things are what they associate with me.” Sometimes he just needs a good editor: “She had studied her feet so many hours that the wrinkles on her soles reflected the wrinkles on her face.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. All the verbal static begins to tax the reader’s good will, and it doesn’t help that Dr. Stein quotes extensively from sources like Oscar Wilde and Oliver Sacks without bothering to provide even a cursory bibliography. It is a relief to turn from this tortured evangelical prose to Pauline Chen’s incandescent memoir. Dr. Chen, a liver surgeon, has a smooth, unobtrusive narrative style, and never patronizes her readers with oblique pronouncements. Instead, she just tells her own story. First, she is a medical student in gross anatomy lab, dissecting a female cadaver who still sports coral nail polish on delicate fingertips. Then, she is a resident despairing that a mistake she never knew she made has killed a patient. Then, she is a young transplant doctor talking to her own beloved Aunt Grace, who has been transformed by chronic renal failure into a living skeleton, too fragile to survive long on dialysis, too tiny for a kidney transplant. Advertisement “I had no answers,” Dr. Chen writes, “only a glimpse of her future. And from that moment on, I could dwell on nothing else but.” Perhaps the surgeon’s ability to slash out the superfluous and concentrate on the essentials has moved here from scalpel to pen. With these few sure, swift strokes Dr. Chen introduces us to the husband of a patient, gaunt and dressed in black, standing at wife’s bedside in the intensive care unit as a blizzard rages outside: “Joseph finally emerged from the room with his coat in his hand. From the monitors at the nursing station, I knew that Juliette’s heart had finally stopped. I approached Joseph, asking him if he would be all right going back out into the snow. I did not know what else to say. There was no one else there to talk to him. ... Fifteen years later, I can still see that tall, ghostly figure leaving the unit. The halls are dark and empty, and the walls shimmer with reflections from the windows of snow falling quietly onto the Chicago streets.” We meet a senior surgeon with the courage to stay with a patient’s wife as her husband dies in a cubicle in the intensive care unit: “What was he doing in there? Why didn’t he leave her, as we always did?” And we see Dr. Chen herself, harvesting a liver from a dead child to transplant to her own desperately ill patient. “I had never noticed,” she writes, “the grass stains on those knobby knees or the face splattered with orange freckles or the spiky red halo of hair. ... I wanted for a moment to rip apart those black sutures, to put the organs back and to shake the dead boy into consciousness.” Dr. Chen also provides some competent (and fully referenced) academic discussions on how the medical profession stumbles in teaching empathy to students, but the real power of her book lies in her stories. Balanced and perfect, each one seeks out the reader’s heart like a guided missile, and explodes. Abigail Zuger, a regular contributor, is a physician in Manhattan. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F5 of the New York edition with the headline: Dropping Detachment and Reconnecting to Patients.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »