Advertisement By ERIC NAGOURNEYJULY 17, 2007
 What’s the easiest way to buy cigarettes if you are under age? Try getting them at a place that sells gas. A new study reports that  in the Seattle area at least,  convenience stores with gas pumps are the most likely to violate laws banning the sale of tobacco to  minors. The researchers, who present their findings in the August issue of The American Journal of Preventive Medicine, examined the results of more than 8,800 compliance checks in which under-age teenagers went into stores and tried to buy cigarettes. While the average of successful purchases over the roughly four years looked at was 7.7 percent, the average at convenience stores  was significantly higher. The lead author of the study, Dave C. Pearson of the Group Health Community Foundation in Seattle, said it was unclear why those stores would be more likely to sell to minors, but suggested that “it could be something in the nature of the transactions.” Advertisement Clerks in stores selling gas tend to deal with drivers eager to be on their way. “They’re probably preoccupied,” Dr. Pearson said. Advertisement Compliance checks on tobacco sales are required by federal law, which ties money to the ability of states to keep sales to minors below 20 percent.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. For the checks in King County, Wash., youths ages 14 to 17 were directed to go into stores and ask to buy cigarettes. They could not lie about their ages, and if asked to produce identification they were to say they had none. A little over 4 percent of the illegal sales were to 14-year-olds, 8 percent to 16-year-olds and 26 percent to 17-year-olds. Female clerks were more likely to make the sales than males. The study said compliance checks appeared to be a good way to help keep cigarettes from children, noting that stores that had been checked in the past had a lower rate of selling when checked  this time around. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F6 of the New York edition with the headline: Studying Compliance Checks In Tobacco Sales to Minors.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »