Advertisement By ALICE LESCH KELLYMAY 8, 2007
 Six days after my husband and I returned from a trip to Aruba  — our first real vacation without our children — my doctor told me I had breast cancer. I had felt a lump in my breast before the trip, but decided to wait to have it checked. I’d had lumps before, and they had always turned out to be nothing. But this one wasn’t nothing. It was Stage 2 invasive ductal carcinoma. The days after my diagnosis are a blur of doctor visits, tests, sleepless nights, tearful discussions with family members and intense research. I saw doctor after doctor after doctor. They patiently answered my many questions about surgery, chemotherapy, radiation and endocrine therapy. But none of them could answer the most important question of all: Why the hell did I get breast cancer? I was 41. I had no family history of breast cancer and no major risk factors. Tests showed I did not carry breast cancer genes. I exercised regularly and ate healthfully. I did not smoke. I had yearly mammograms. The only thing I’d done “wrong,” according to the standard list of risk factors for breast cancer, was having my first baby after age 30. And yet all I got from my doctors when I asked them why was a shrug. “It just happens,” a surgeon told me. “You can do everything right and still get breast cancer. Unfortunately, you drew the short straw.” Advertisement That explanation didn’t cut it for me. I needed to know why. As a freelance health writer, I’m accustomed to tracking down the answers to vexing medical questions. So I set out in search of an answer. I examined studies, pored over articles in medical journals, spoke with experts and joined a support group with women who knew so much about breast cancer they could have passed board certification exams. Advertisement Meanwhile, I underwent my treatment — three operations, eight sessions of dose-dense chemotherapy and six weeks of daily radiation treatments. I lost part of my breast, all of my hair and most of my sense of security. And still no satisfactory answer to my question. Not long after my treatment ended, I found myself in a hospital  elevator with a bald woman. I had no hair at that time, either, so we started to chat. (It’s amazing how cancer brings people together — I’ve had deep, 45-minute conversations with complete strangers in waiting rooms.) “What have you got?” she asked me. We were like prisoners in the same jail comparing crimes. “Stage 2 breast cancer,” I told her. “I’m Stage 4 ovarian,” she said. I could tell by the look on her face that I wasn’t doing a very good job of concealing the look on my face. We both knew that her prognosis was not good. But she wasn’t grieving. She seemed happy.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “When I was diagnosed, the doctors told me I had two months to live,” she said with a huge grin. “That was more than three years ago.” We stood in the damp parking garage, talking. She is a single mother with two teenage children. She gets chemo every couple of weeks and works full time because she needs the money, and the health insurance. As we chatted, I realized that if she weren’t bald, I would never know she was battling a terminal illness. “How do you do it?” I asked her. “How do you live each day with cancer hanging over your head?” She smiled, understanding. “I treat every day as an adventure, and I refuse to let anything make me sad, angry or worried,” she replied. “I live for the day, which is something I never did before. Believe it or not, I’m happier now than I was before I was diagnosed.” Advertisement She wasn’t spending her time tracking down studies and agonizing over statistics. She wasn’t sitting with her head in her hands, asking why, why, why. No, she didn’t know why she got cancer, but she realized that nothing would be different even if she did. I thought about her for days. Gradually I began to understand. The only answer to the question “Why me?” is this: Because bad stuff happens to everyone, and this is what happened to me. One of my closest friends struggled with infertility. That’s her short straw. Another friend’s marriage fell apart. Another friend gave birth to a stillborn child. Look closely enough and you’ll see that everyone has a short straw or two in their lives. I’ll never know why I got cancer. What I do know is that the sooner I let go of the need to find something or someone to blame, the sooner I’ll be able to put cancer behind me and enjoy life, however long or short it may be. Only when I accept the sometimes cruel randomness of fate will I be able to call myself a survivor. Alice Lesch Kelly is a freelance health writer based in Newton, Mass. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F5 of the New York edition with the headline: The Struggle to Move Beyond ‘Why Me?’.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »