Advertisement By ELISSA ELY, M.D.NOV. 27, 2007
 It was clear when we met that the patient’s intelligence was severely limited. He could hardly find his own thoughts. Rocking in a chair not built for rocking, he gave a scattered history of head trauma and explosiveness. He was fresh from prison (another sentence for assault), living in the shelter and tired of himself. He hated hurting people, he said. He wanted a medication to cure this once and for all. We reviewed his psychiatric hospitalizations. There had been many. He would be started on some new medication, then be discharged to the streets with two weeks of pills and a diagnosis to add to his definition of self. “I’m bipolar schizophrenic with attention deficit and P.T.S.D.,” he said, using the initials for post-traumatic stress disorder. Polysyllabic diagnoses always tell more about a hospital than a patient. Freed, he would suddenly decide that he had always wanted to see downtown Baltimore, or that he needed to catch up with an old friend who might still be in Seattle. When the two-week prescription ran out, there was no refilling doctor. It wouldn’t take long before some slight motion of a stranger would enrage him; another assault, another admission, another medication. He took them in a cloud, dozens of them, and could not remember their names — except for one. It had worked perfectly for him. He even knew the dosage: it was Haldol, 15 milligrams. “At hour of sleep,” he said, reciting from the hospital chart. Advertisement No one gives Haldol to patients with brain damage anymore, especially at such a high dose. It is an old-school antipsychotic that causes restlessness, Parkinsonian stiffness, the involuntary movements called tardive dyskinesia, and — rarely but unforgettably — a dystonic reaction, in which muscles go into spasm and the patient is left outwardly paralyzed but inwardly in agony. Advertisement “Haldol has terrible side effects for some people,” I said. “Oh, yeah,” he replied, as I recall. “I had a friend who took it once. His eyes rolled back, his head snapped, he couldn’t swallow, he was crying and screaming in pain, man, it was terrible. But 15 milligrams at hour of sleep is what I need.” The specificity of this limited man was impressive. He knew the name of the drug he wanted — a drug no one takes voluntarily — and its dosage. Would he take another medication with it to prevent side effects? He was firm. It was Haldol at a high dose, and nothing else. Against educated instinct, I wrote a prescription: Haldol 15 milligrams  at hour of sleep. His experience trumped mine.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The homeless shelter called the next morning. After one dose, he had gone into a catastrophic dystonic reaction. It was just as he had described; his eyes rolled, the neck snapped back. He was sent by ambulance to an emergency room, shot full of Benadryl, and returned, shaking, to the shelter. The friend he had been talking about was himself. In his simple-minded way, he had given warning. But I had not heard correctly. I had been listening literally, instead of with a third ear. A day later, he disappeared with no forwarding address or phone number. I assumed I had driven him away. I certainly would have driven me away. That was the end of the story. Then, eight months later, there was a call from an E.R. nurse somewhere in Florida. “I’m sitting here with Mr. X,” she said. “He gave us your name and said that you’re his psychiatrist. He speaks very highly of you, and he’d like to make a follow-up appointment.” She made it sound as if the office door had just shut behind him. “He’s in Florida,” I said, confused. “Yes. But he’s thinking of taking a bus back to Boston, and wants to know how your schedule looks for next week.” One humbly learns. The harm I had caused in a single meeting was nowhere near as important as the idea that he had a doctor of his own, someone he could call from an emergency room in Florida for a follow-up appointment after eight months, someone — at last — who would see him again. That mattered. The rest, it turned out, was easily forgiven. Elissa Ely is a psychiatrist in Boston. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F5 of the New York edition with the headline: A Stable Doctor for a Scattered Life.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »