Advertisement By ANDREW C. REVKINAUG. 29, 2006
 Efforts to protect imperiled bird species have blunted a centuries-long acceleration of human-caused bird extinctions, biologists say. For the moment. This is the first time biologists have gauged the effect of conservation efforts by assessing shifts in the prospects of  species that were down to their last few members. Ana S. L. Rodrigues, a zoologist at Cambridge University, summarized the work in the current issue of Science. “It is encouraging that bird conservation actions worldwide are making a noticeable dent in the bleak scenario of global biodiversity loss,” she wrote. A particularly significant study, she said, was published last month in the journal Oryx by biologists from Birdlife International, a private conservation group in Britain. They identified more than two dozen birds, including the California condor and the Mauritius parakeet, that would probably have become extinct sometime after 1994 without intervention. In her paper, Dr. Rodrigues assessed the Birdlife International list against the 500-year record of 135 bird extinctions compiled, century by century, by the World Conservation Union, a network of government and private scientists and organizations. The drop  to 43 extinctions in the 20th century from 49 in the 19th century was clearly a result of interventions like preserving habitat, breeding or moving birds, and controlling cats and other introduced predators, she said. Stuart L. Pimm, a professor of conservation ecology at Duke University, cautioned that continuing deforestation in the tropics and other pressures could raise the extinction rate tenfold in the next 10 years. “It’s a pat on the back, and we need one, but the threat ahead is massive,” Dr. Pimm said. “It’s like we’ve ridden our first wave on a surfboard and feel good about it, but look back and there’s a tsunami coming in.” A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F3 of the New York edition with the headline: Study Shows Hopeful Pause In Steady Loss Of Bird Species.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »