Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
 HENRY FOUNTAIN
 
MARCH 14, 2006
 In 2002 and 2003, the Norris Geyser Basin in Yellowstone National Park went nuts. The basin, the hottest of the park's hot spots, grew hotter still. Several geysers erupted after having been quiet for years. Others erupted more frequently. Some grew so hot that the water boiled off and they became steam vents. Yellowstone is one of the most geothermally active places on the planet. Most of the park consists of the caldera of a volcano that last blew up 640,000 years ago. So scientists knew something was happening in the vast plumbing system of partly molten rock, or magma, that underlies the region and causes slow but near-constant ground movement. Geophysicists with the United States Geological Survey now say they have a good idea of precisely what was going on. Using radar data from a European satellite, they report that an area near the basin rose up about an inch a year over five years. The uplift probably caused increased fracturing near the surface that would account for the unrest at Norris. The satellite makes multiple passes over the same area and compares the data to detect changes. "It can give a pretty good idea down to the subcentimeter level of what parts of the earth are going up or down," said Charles W. Wicks, the lead author of the study, which Nature published on March 2. "Yellowstone is a very good target," he added. "It's always doing something." Advertisement The area around the basin started rising in 1995, and the rest of the caldera began subsiding two years later. Both movements stopped around 2002-2003, although new measurements now show that the whole caldera is rising. Advertisement As for what caused this pattern of movement, Dr. Wicks said the best model involved magma rising to within 10 miles of the surface at a spot in the caldera called Sour Creek dome. "There it encounters a kind of a plug," he said, consisting of rock from long-ago lava flows. The magma is deflected horizontally and expands under the Norris region. "It's like a pillow down there that fluffs up and causes the surface to rise," Dr. Wicks said. The question remains whether the movement and the resulting unrest in the geyser basin was a one-of-a-kind event or part of a cycle. "I suspect that this is probably a normal thing," Dr. Wicks said. "But we've only been able to monitor it like this since 1992. The next 20 or 30 years will probably tell." Easter Island Update Easter Island, that flyspeck in the South Pacific, is famous for the scores of large human-like statues that line its coast. But the island has another, less positive, claim to fame. It is a prime example of how human settlement can bring ecological destruction. Rapa Nui, as the island is known locally, was rapidly deforested by its Polynesian settlers, sometime after A.D. 1200. By the time Europeans arrived 500 years later, the residents were starving, barely eking out an existence on a barren land. On the basis of radiocarbon dating, scientists had assumed that the island was settled between A.D. 400 and 800. That created a mystery: why did the Polynesians wait hundreds of years before stripping their island bare? (For that matter, why did they wait so long to create the statues, which date from a later period, as well?) New research suggests an answer. They didn't. A study by Terry L. Hunt of the University of Hawaii, Manoa, and Carl P. Lipo of California State University, Long Beach, calls those earlier analyses into question and puts the date of settlement around 1200. The deforestation began soon after. The researchers, who have published their findings in Science, dated charcoal excavated from an archaeological site at Anakena, on the northern coast. (The site also included many animal bones, including those of the rat species that arrived on the island with the Polynesians.) Advertisement Their best-guess date of colonization is  1220. They note that the time frame matches  what is known about Polynesian settlements elsewhere in the southeastern Pacific. The researchers suggest that even a small colony of settlers — say 50 — would have grown to several thousand in 100 years. The effect on the environment would have been nearly immediate.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. A Habitat Imperiled Deforestation isn't just a problem for humans. In Sumatra and Borneo, it has led to a sharp decrease in populations of orangutans, the only great apes found outside Africa. A new study by scientists at Cardiff University in Wales shows the extent and timing of the declines. Using DNA samples from about 200 orangutans in Sabah in northern Borneo, the researchers showed a relatively recent genetic "bottleneck," a population decrease of more than 95 percent over the past few centuries. The study, published by the open-access journal Public Library of Science  Biology, suggests that the only event that could have led to such a decline is the development of logging and the fragmentation of habitat that resulted from it. Since logging in the region did not begin until the 1890's and only became widespread in the 1950's, the researchers say the estimate of a few centuries for the decline masks the fact that most of it has come fairly recently. This Girl Is a Woman Now The Magdalenian Girl, a 15,000-year-old nearly intact skeleton found in a rock shelter in southwestern France, has a secret. She's not a girl; she's a woman. Researchers with the Field Museum in Chicago, where the skeleton has resided since the 1920's, have determined that the bones are those of a woman who was probably 25 to 35 years old when she died. Previously, scientists had thought Magdalenian Girl must have been a teenager, because her wisdom teeth had not erupted, which generally occurs after age 18. But new X-rays show that the molars are actually impacted. That makes the skeleton the oldest known case of impacted wisdom teeth. All of this is of more than academic interest for what it might say about the human diet. Impacted teeth are a relatively recent development in history. Early humans had a coarse diet that involved more chewing and biting; the thinking is that the forces involved stimulated growth of the jaw, creating space for the wisdom teeth to emerge. Advertisement Only when the diet got softer did impaction become common. So finding impacted teeth in a specimen this old suggests that the diet might have gotten softer sooner. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F3 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »