Advertisement By CORNELIA DEANMARCH 14, 2006
 "Chasing Daylight: How My Forthcoming Death Transformed My Life," by Eugene O'Kelly,  McGraw-Hill, $19.95. Everyone who is alive is under a sentence of death. But few people realize it, and fewer still learn in advance the timetable of their demise. Eugene O'Kelly was one of those few. Last May, his wife, Corinne,  noticed that one side of his face seemed to be sagging slightly. Neither thought much about it. At 53, Mr. O'Kelly seemed in robust health, working long hours and traveling for his job as chairman and chief executive of the giant accounting firm KPMG (US). But after a doctor's visit, an M.R.I. scan and then another, more specialized, M.R.I. test, Mr. O'Kelly received devastating news. He had glioblastoma multiforme, an aggressive brain cancer that would kill him in a few months  —  100 days, his doctors said. Advertisement "I had focused on building and planning for the future," Mr. O'Kelly writes in "Chasing Daylight." "Now I would have to learn the true value of the present." Advertisement His memoir tells how he did that, in the process offering guidance for others who will end up in the same spot. In other words, everyone. Though he tells how he often lies awake at night, weeping, Mr. O'Kelly also acknowledges his good fortune. He has plenty of money, good health insurance, a wide network of warm friendships, a loving family and strong religious faith. He is even able to be grateful for the ability to exercise "control over my life, the final and most precious inches of my life, for the last real time I was able to." Perhaps because of his  experience running a large corporation, he approaches this like the goal-oriented high achiever he had been all his life. He does not have a few months to adjust to the news, he writes. He has a few months, full stop. "If I was going to emerge from the misery of my condition and somehow make something positive of it, I would have to do it fast and efficiently  —  and get it right the first time."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. First he must decide how to treat his cancer, opting  against chemotherapy. It may buy time, he reasons, but not much, and not much time "full of life." Then he steps down as chief executive. Then he makes a list of what he wants to do next. Some items on the list are routine like putting his finances in order and planning his funeral. Some are not. For one thing, he decides to "unwind" relationships with important people in his life —  and there are many of them —  with explicitly final conversations. Sometimes he finds this easier than they do. Some friends and colleagues urge him to fight his disease with the chemo he has rejected or insist on calling after they have had what he hopes will be their last good talk. Sometimes, he thinks, he is more reconciled to his imminent death than they are. Advertisement He also wants his final days to be filled with "perfect moments" —  a good meal with fine wine, a meaningful conversation, a beautiful afternoon in the park. "I marveled at how many Perfect Moments I was having now," he writes. The meditations on turning ordinary experiences into "perfect moments" is perhaps the most useful  guidance he offers those not yet facing the timetable he confronted. Finding perfection in the mundane is a skill too many leave undeveloped, and undervalued. He did not succeed in all  his goals.  He began experiencing seizures. Vision faded. He was not always able to stay in the moment. "Unwinding" with his daughter Gina, only 13 when he fell ill, proved difficult. Perhaps, he concedes, it is impossible to perform so painful a task with someone so young, someone who is, as his wife puts it in the book's afterword, so unwilling to let go. Most doctors are (wisely) unwilling to be specific when people with life-threatening ailments ask how much time they have left. Survival statistics are gathered in aggregate,  but people die individually. Mr.  O'Kelly died in September, just as his doctors had predicted. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F7 of the New York edition with the headline: When Cancer Strikes, A High Achiever Plans.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »