Advertisement By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN, M.D.FEB. 28, 2006
 When Ariel Sharon suffered his first stroke in December, he did what many national leaders who suddenly become ill rarely do.  Mr. Sharon, the prime minister of Israel, told his doctors at the Hadassah Hospital Ein Kerem in Jerusalem to inform the public about his medical problems, Dr. Shlomo Mor-Yosef, the Hadassah Medical Organization's director-general,  said in interviews in the United States last week. The doctors applied that directive again on Jan. 4, when Mr. Sharon suffered a second, devastating stroke that left him in a coma. He breathes on his own though he is connected to a mechanical respirator as a precaution. His family and doctors pray —  against very long odds  — that he will regain consciousness and some motor and mental function. In following Mr. Sharon's directive, Dr. Mor-Yosef's medical team has been thrust into a role for which there is little professional guidance  —  how to inform the public about a famous patient's precarious condition, rebut criticism about that care and discuss the kind of medical decisions affecting end-of-life issues that patients and families generally talk about only among themselves. "Talking about a prime minister's health in detail was something new in Israel," Dr. Mor-Yosef said. Mr. Sharon's case is complicated, involving decisions about therapies like anticoagulation that rank among the most controversial in medicine. Advertisement Mr. Sharon recovered quickly from his first stroke, caused by a blood clot. He was given an anticoagulant known as low molecular weight heparin to help prevent a clot, causing another stroke. Also, he was to undergo a procedure on Jan. 5 to close a hole between the two upper chambers of the heart. His doctors believed a clot traveled through that hole to cause the first stroke. Advertisement But on the eve of the scheduled procedure, Mr. Sharon was taken to the hospital with a disastrous complication, a bleeding stroke. Critics contend that Mr. Sharon's doctors erred in some of their decisions, including the heparin. But, Dr. Mor-Yosef said, the hospital has conducted internal reviews of Mr. Sharon's treatment at different stages. Hadassah doctors discussed the case by telephone and e-mail with specialists in Israel and elsewhere, he said. An expert in coma, Dr. Jerome B. Posner of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center flew from Manhattan to examine Mr. Sharon. "We believe everything was done correctly," Dr. Mor-Yosef said. Aside from the security measures required for a prime minister, Mr. Sharon received the same treatment that any other patient with the same problems would, Dr. Mor-Yosef said, though he added, "I would not pretend that he got the same attention." The "dilemmas" involved in Mr. Sharon's case, he said, are expected to be discussed at a scientific meeting after he recovers or leaves the hospital. Dr. Mor-Yosef said the doctors "have not reached the point that we have to give up." "As a doctor," he said, "the easiest part is to fight for the life of a patient when you have the full understanding of the family, and they would like you to fight, even if there is a slight percentage of success." He continued, "To give up is more complicated than to fight for his life" for psychological and other reasons. "So we fight," he said. "You don't say no, there is no chance, especially because he is not on any life support system." Advertisement This month, surgeons removed a portion of Mr. Sharon's bowel that died, presumably from a blood clot that suddenly stopped the flow of blood in an abdominal artery. The doctors explained the problem and the options to Mr. Sharon's family, and "they asked us to operate" even though it was the Sabbath, Dr. Mor-Yosef said. "We operated on him on a Saturday not because he was a prime minister but because he was a patient with a problem we diagnosed and could solve and the family wanted us to solve it," Dr. Mor-Yosef said. His frequent appearances on television speaking about Mr. Sharon's case have made Dr. Mor-Yosef, 54, a public figure in Israel. His role as spokesman is the latest twist in a career that has led him from delivering babies as an obstetrician-gynecologist to specializing in gynecological cancers.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In 1990, Dr. Mor-Yosef was reluctant to accept an offer from Hadassah officials to turn to administration. But he said a trial period left him feeling that he could do more as an administrator than as a practitioner caring for individual patients. So he went on to earn a management degree at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard. In 2001, he became director-general of the Hadassah Medical Organization in Jerusalem, which includes two major hospitals and more than 120 outpatient clinics in three cities in Israel. During Mr. Sharon's first stroke, Dr. Mor-Yosef said he left the public discussions of the prime minister's case to his doctors. But in January, Dr. Mor-Yosef said, "The minute I saw him rushed into the emergency room, it was obvious that his condition" would involve an emergency transfer of power from the prime minister to the deputy, Ehud Olmert. It was then that Dr. Mor-Yosef said he decided to become the medical spokesman. The morning after Mr. Sharon's second stroke, Dr. Mor-Yosef's wife, Dina, and government officials called him because of rumors that the prime minister was dead.  Dr. Mor-Yosef swiftly told reporters that Mr. Sharon was alive and in an intensive care unit, and he promised to  report quickly any changes in his medical condition. Advertisement Dr. Mor-Yosef said he knew that "every word that we said could have enormous influence on the Israeli stock market, the political arena in Israel and what other countries in the region would think about Israel's stability in such a period." That meant, he said,  "speaking in language that both my mother, Geula, an ordinary citizen, and neurosurgeons could understand,"  while "the media was looking for every detail and, of course, every mistake." To prevent false rumors and to maintain trust with journalists, Dr. Mor-Yosef announced in advance when Mr. Sharon would be moved in the hospital to undergo various tests. Mr. Sharon does not have a  living will because the documents are seldom used in Israel, Dr. Mor-Yosef said. He told Mr. Sharon's sons, Omri and Gilad,  what he intended to say at each news conference. Dr. Mor-Yosef said that though he had spoken at news conferences about the victims of accidents and bombings, he never named them or cited a specific patient's specific medical condition. In terrorist attacks, news organizations tend to cover the story from many perspectives, like accounts from witnesses at the scene of an attack, family members, friends, the police, emergency services, the military and workers at other hospitals. Mr. Sharon's case was different. "The only story was about one patient, in one room, at one hospital," said Dr. Mor-Yosef, who, at peak times, spoke to 400 journalists and 60 television and radio crews stationed in the hospital's courtyard. As journalists demanded continuous updates about every minor change in Mr. Sharon's care, Dr. Mor-Yosef provided specific details like the pressure inside Mr. Sharon's skull and the amount of urine he produced. "We did it because Prime Minister Sharon asked us to do it," Dr. Mor-Yosef said. At no time did Dr. Mor-Yosef feel he was a government spokesman, he said, adding,  "It was like giving information to a patient's family, and in this case the family was the whole world." A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D5 of the National edition with the headline: Sharon, Gravely Ill, Invited the Public Inside.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »