Advertisement MAY 2, 2006
 To the Editor: "After the Adoption, a New Child and the Blues" (April 25): While adoptive parents are not warned about this, depression and other emotional reactions in the post-adoption period have long been noted in the literature. If nothing else, the occurrence of depression after adoption should suggest that the medical model, which locates the origin of illnesses in the patient, is too limiting a model. Explorations of postpartum and post-adoption depressions must go beyond biology to look at the realities of the experiences and stresses of new motherhood. It has always been interesting to note how many of the most biological of research articles have recommended that new mothers get more help at home to treat the depression. Advertisement Karen Greene   Orangeburg, N.Y.The writer is a psychologist at the Rockland Psychiatric Center.  • To the Editor: As an adoptive mother who experienced mild depression after adopting both of my children, I read with interest "After the Adoption." Advertisement The writer contends that postpartum and post-adoptive depression may differ because most women who have adopted are not experiencing the "drop in estrogen" that biological mothers do. In fact, adoptive mothers may have hormonal problems. At 38, I learned I had premature ovarian failure, a condition that causes early menopause. Nine months later, we brought our son home. Though I have never been happier than the day I became a mother, I now believe I have experienced mild depression as a result of low estrogen. Second, adoptive mothers may suffer soon after their children arrive because of attitudes reflected in the article you published. The writer refers to women who have children of "their own," intimating that our children are less ours. Many adoptive parents hear such unknowing comments after adoption. Suzanne Moyers   Upper Montclair, N.J. • To the Editor: "After the Adoption" was noteworthy for its exclusive focus on mothers. Do fathers also experience post-adoption depression? Also, knowing if "parental depression" affects women exclusively would provide important insight into all depression that affects new parents. Elizabeth Marincola   Potomac, Md. • To the Editor: In "After the Adoption," an otherwise excellent and helpful article on post-adoption depression, you write: "Mary and Claude Knobler had two children of their own. But they decided to adopt Nati." I assume the writer used the term "of their own" because the Knoblers' first two children were their biological children. But Nati is just as much the Knoblers' child as their biological children. Just because she is adopted, she is no less a "child of their own." Joseph Zwicker   Newton, Mass. Patients Deserve Honesty To the Editor: As a physician and patient, I find "How a Spoonful of Sugar Helps the Medicine Go Down" (Essay, April 25) insulting, dishonest and disturbing. Advertisement In the opening paragraph the author describes her gross disrespect and lack of tact with the patient, and then advocates making up false niceties to remedy the situation. It seems to me that we and our patients respond best when we are genuinely caring, empathic and honest. Offering sweet clichés does not help the patient improve health behaviors. A more respectful and supportive attitude might be conveyed by "I'm concerned that you are not taking good care of yourself, and your recent weight gain, rise in cholesterol level and decrease in exercise show that. Let's see what we can do to improve things."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Most doctors I know do not offer untrue or exaggerated compliments to their patients. They strive for appropriate and sincere communications. Nathan Billig, M.D.   Washington • To the Editor: Re "A Spoonful of Sugar": The writer, Dr. Abigail Zuger, seems to feel she can insult her patients with eye-rolling and tongue-clucking as long as she further insults them by delivering nonsensical, often untrue, compliments about their hair or, even worse, telling some of them that they are her favorite patients. How insulting! Having worked in the mental health field for over 20 years, I am aware that many people feel intimated and often childlike in a doctor's office. There are often feelings of apprehension regarding the possible outcome of the visit. For the doctor, the delivery of news both good and bad is routine. The doctor needs to keep this in mind and handle the situation with kindness and respect for the patient. Perhaps to deliver any message with hope and understanding of feelings would serve patients better than empty compliments. Barbara Marcus   New York • To the Editor: The problem with Dr. Abigail Zuger's words in "A Spoonful of Sugar" is not with the ooey-gooey ones. It's with the rackety-clackety ones at the beginning: "frowned at her," "rolled my eyes" and "clucked at her." Anyone treated like a wayward teenager will reasonably rebel like one, with miserable and guilty looks, and, if pushed hard enough, with hate. What does this have to do with medical care? How about if the writer and her classmates, rather than learn platitudes and formulas, remember that these are in fact fellow humans in front of them, frightened and sometimes failing, and that they deserve to be treated as these doctors would want to be treated -- with respect. That will be healthier for doctor as well as patient. Rachel Burd   Brooklyn Editors. Humorless Folk. To the Editor: Oh, if only scientists were allowed to include a "Ant, Better With Dose of Humanity (and Humor)" (Side Effects, April 25) in their scientific articles. Advertisement It's not that we lack humor or are uninterested in the "human" aspects of our research, but editorial policies just won't permit it. Why, I've even had editors delete witty asides from my reviews before they sent them on to the authors. If a reviewer can't express his humanity and humor, when it doesn't even take up precious space in the publication, how can we expect scientists to do so in a scientific article? The writer, James Gorman, should start with journal editors. The scientists will follow. Ed Yellin   Sarasota, Fla.    The writer is an emeritus professor Emeritus of physiology and biophysics at Albert Einstein College of Medicine.  Medicare Hassles To the Editor: Re "Forge Your Way Through the Medicare Drug Maze" (Personal Health, April 25): After providing a most useful summary of the current status of enrollment in the new Medicare Part D drug insurance, Jane Brody concludes with practical, step-by-step advice on determining which of the plans (in my case, 42 of them) is most advantageous. She suggests calling the companies and asking about co-payments and restrictions. Call 42 drug companies? No, thank you! Aside from communication problems (I use hearing aids), I have much better use for my time -- especially given a constant awareness of how little time remains when one has passed the age of 90! And there is so much to do, day after day -- including a close reading of my New York Times! Ernest Erber    Red Hook, N.Y. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F4 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »