Advertisement By CORNELIA DEANSEPT. 26, 2006
 EDGARTOWN, Mass. — A full moon, big and orange, is setting behind the barrier beach along Katama Bay, and the sun is little more than pink streaks lightening the eastern sky when Luanne Johnson’s 1989 Ford Ranger rattles into a small parking lot at the Wasque Reservation on Chappaquiddick, the east end of Martha’s Vineyard. It is 5:30 a.m., time to find some skunks. From the back of the truck, Ms. Johnson retrieves a backpack, a tackle box and a four-foot stick with a plastic cap on one end, and sets off toward the beach, where last night she set 15 wire mesh traps, each one baited with fish-market scraps and peanut butter. The first two are empty but the third contains a skunk, perhaps 3 or 4 months old. Its tail is in the air, and it stomps its feet at her approach. “It’s letting me know it’s upset,” Ms. Johnson says softly as she approaches the trap. “It’s doing all the skunk body gestures which say ‘I am a dangerous animal, pay attention to me.’ ” Ms. Johnson removes the plastic cap from the end of the stick, revealing a small syringe, and takes up a dose of sedative from a vial in the red tackle box. She feeds the “jab stick” through the trap’s mesh and the needle finds its target. There is the unmistakable odor of skunk. And then the animal reels and collapses in a heap. Advertisement Ms. Johnson opens her pack to find a clipboard, a striped beach towel, rubber gloves and other gear. She slides the inert skunk, a male, into a cloth bag, hangs it from a portable scale and notes its weight — 0.725 kilograms, or about 26 ounces. Then she lays it on the towel, measures it (53 centimeters, or 21 inches, end to end) and notes whether it has the typical skunk stripe (yes, a short one) and the typical shock of white tail fur (not yet). His pelt is still too thin for the microchips she implants in older animals, so she clips an identifying tag into his ear. Advertisement By now the quick-acting sedative is wearing off and the skunk is beginning to wake up. Ms. Johnson coos to him as she strokes his fur and checks for ticks, which she tweezes off and stashes in a plastic tube for delivery to a scientist studying tick-borne diseases. Then she lifts the groggy skunk by the nape of the neck and deposits him in the grass, where he staggers away. This is Ms. Johnson’s third year of skunking on Martha’s Vineyard, where she tracks and traps the animals here and on Dogfish Bar, a beach in Aquinnah, the west end of the island. By next year, she hopes, the data she has collected will turn into a dissertation for Antioch University New England, where Ms. Johnson is a doctoral student in environmental studies. She jokes that she will title her project “Skunks on the Beach.” Among other things, she hopes to help settle an argument that erupts here every summer  — nesting season for piping plovers and other endangered shorebirds, when stretches of beach are closed to four-wheel-drive vehicles. Opponents of the closing say the threat to the birds is not vehicles, but predators like skunks. “Because skunks are an egg predator of the rare birds, we wanted to know more about them,” Ms. Johnson says. “We don’t know even simple questions like what kind of resources are they using on the landscape and how do people influence what they do.” Beaches like this one are a good place to study skunks because they are a good place for skunks to live. “Skunks are an edge species,” Ms. Johnson says. “They like it in ecotones, places where two different kinds of habitat come together.” With its salt marshes, sand plains, woods, dunes and patches of huckleberries, blueberries and poison ivy, this beach offers many edges and lots of the eggs, small rodents, berries and insects skunks like to eat. “They love poison ivy,” Ms. Johnson says, pointing to a set of tiny tracks headed into a patch. “I have seen them eating poison ivy berries like birds. I have found them sleeping among the blueberries with little blue lips. Their poop gets full of blueberries this time of year.” Advertisement Ms. Johnson typically sets her traps at dusk and checks them at dawn. She also tracks 11 skunks fitted with radio collars, so some nights she comes out with a receiver that picks up their signals and a night-vision telescope that allows her to see them in the dark as much as 50 yards away. “I’ll check for a signal and start walking toward the signal,” she says. “That could take me to a variety of places. They are not always digging; they are sometimes chasing things like grasshoppers or beetles. Sometimes I find them under someone’s bird feeder. Lots of times they are running and pouncing on things, digging, snuffling around with their nose on the ground.” They are accomplished mousers, she says. “If they find them, they will run them down.” Unfortunately, while her research subjects are nocturnal, Ms. Johnson is not. “I am so sleep-deprived,” she says. Ms. Johnson, 40, has worked with animals one way or another since her childhood in Mishawaka, Ind. She volunteered at the Indianapolis Zoo while attending Butler University there, and worked for a few years on the Vineyard, on a nature education program of the Trustees of Reservations, the Massachusetts conservation organization that manages Wasque (pronounced WAY-skwee). Later, she worked in Hawaii as a field supervisor for a bird restoration project run by the biological resources division of the United States Geological Survey and then at a wilderness education program in Washington State. But eventually, she says, she decided to immerse herself deeply in one research area. And she wanted to find a better way to communicate the knowledge she was acquiring to the public. “I wanted to tell them every choice they make influences what is going on around them,” she says. “The general public is so disconnected with nature.” Skunks seemed a good choice, she says, because they are wild mammals that interact often both with people and with birds. Her doctoral program is at Antioch New England, a branch of Antioch University in Ohio, based in Keene, N.H., and specializing in environment-related work.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The skunks of Martha’s Vineyard are of the species Mephitis mephitis. “The word means ‘malodorous,’ ” Ms. Johnson says, “just like ‘skunk’ is an Algonquin word for ‘smelly.’ ” They typically mate once a year, in February, and kits are born at the end of April or in early May. Except for mating, males live solitary lives; females often den together in winter burrows. But much remains unknown about their denning practices. Eventually, Ms. Johnson says, researchers may be able to analyze skunk DNA to track family patterns and so on. Once skunks are a year old, they start reproducing, with litters of varying size. “I’ve seen up to eight,” Ms. Johnson says. Their lives are brief — “An old skunk in the wild would be about 4 years old,” she says. Advertisement Originally, she says, an adviser suggested she study what would happen if skunks were simply removed from the beach. “I said, ‘Oh, come on,’ ” she relates. “If there’s a problem, just kill it. That seems to be our response to the world.” Instead, her project became an effort to monitor skunk behavior. David F. Belcher, who manages the Wasque reservation and other reserves on Chappaquiddick, said skunks would definitely go after shorebird eggs if the nests were not fenced, which his staff does every year for endangered plovers, terns and oystercatchers. But once the chicks are on the move, Mr. Belcher said, vehicles are their biggest threat. “Chances are, skunks are not going to be an issue,” he said. Ms. Johnson agrees. She says she would spend this winter, while the skunks enter a kind of semihibernation called dormancy, organizing and collating the information she has been collecting all summer. But so far, she says, “I am not seeing a lot of evidence that skunks are limiting chicks.” By now the sun is up and people — and their pets — are out and about. As she approaches her last trap, Ms. Johnson can see it has a good-size skunk in it. She can also see two women walking toward it with a large chocolate lab, and she warns them to keep away. “Short that leash up,” she advises the woman holding the dog. This skunk is an adult she named Louis, after a friend of hers who runs a restaurant on the Vineyard, and she is glad she has found him. The transmitter on his collar has been signaling erratically, she says, and she wants to replace the collar itself, which she fears may start to get tight as Louis bulks up for winter. Finding him in a trap is a lot easier than tracking him in the dark. She pulls a scanner out of her pack and scans the skunk for its implanted microchip to confirm his identity. “It is you,” she exclaims. “Hello, my little honey-bunny!” People tell her she should identify the animals she tracks by number and not by name, to avoid anthropomorphizing them. She ignores the advice, in part because she thinks skunks really do have different personalities. Gus, named after a Vineyard wildlife expert, is wary, she says. Louis is a snoozer. There are also Debbie, Katie, Rose, Nancy, Babs — all named after friends — and Puanani, which means “flower” in Hawaiian. “This is the third season I have recaptured her,” Ms. Johnson says. Advertisement A large house is under construction nearby, complete with the kind of grassy lawn not natural to the island. Louis is spending a lot of time there, Ms. Johnson says. “There are just all kinds of insects in there,” she says, “beetles, all sorts of things that fly around at night.” But if skunks are not a problem for birds, they do cause problems for people, with their midnight rambles into yards, under decks and even into boats stored on land. More than once, she says, she has left a note warning an unsuspecting boat owner that there may be a skunk under the tarp. Many of the houses near Wasque are rental properties, she says, and many have overflowing garbage cans. “I have skunks all over that stuff,” she says. “People complain about too many skunks and I say, ‘Well, gee....’ ” By now, the jab stick has done its work and Louis, seemingly boneless, has been weighed, measured, cleaned of ticks and fitted with a new collar. Ms. Johnson snuggles him next to her face before walking into the brush to set him down on a bed of pine needles under a huckleberry bush, where he will wake up. “He’s a pretty boy,” she says as she lets him go. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F1 of the New York edition with the headline: Beyond Black and White: Stalking the Skunks of Martha’s Vineyard.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »