Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
 HENRY FOUNTAIN
 
APRIL 18, 2006
 Like most fish, the eel catfish eats by sucking water into its mouth, bringing food along with it. But the eel catfish, which inhabits swamps in Gabon and other parts of tropical Africa, has a little secret. It can also hunt and catch insects on land. How the fish does this — by bending its neck so that its mouth can reach down and get a firm purchase on its prey — suggests one way animals might have foraged for food hundreds of millions of years ago when they first moved from water to land. "This is such a big step for fishes to do this," said Sam Van Wassenbergh, a Belgian doctoral student, who with colleagues described the finding in Nature. Mr. Van Wassenbergh studies feeding mechanisms in fish, and at first was interested in this fish's  large jaw muscles. "We were just thinking about normal aquatic feeding, of course," he said. Until they opened some fish up to study the stomach contents, and found they were filled with beetles. Advertisement They suspected the catfish, which can breathe in air as well as water,  must work its way onto land to catch the beetles, although there were no reports of this behavior. "I'm convinced these animals mainly hunt at night, which is probably why people haven't seen this," Mr. Van Wassenbergh said. Advertisement The researchers were able to observe it in the laboratory (Click here to access a video.) The fish, which lacks fins, wriggles its 15-inch body onto land and raises its head, using its long tail for stability, and then arches its neck so that the snout and mouth point downward. That way it can trap the insect between its mouth and the ground. If the fish approached from ground level, odds are it would just nudge the prey away. Mudskippers, the only other fish known to be terrestrial feeders, also bend their necks, though they stabilize themselves differently, using pectoral fins that are adapted to hopping on the ground. Neither fish is related, in evolutionary terms, to those that gave rise to the first terrestrial animals, like tiktaalik, the recently discovered 375-million-year-old fish that scientists say is a transitional creature between sea and land. "But one thing becomes clear now from the eel catfish and the mudskipper," Mr. Van Wassenbergh said. In order to feed on land, "you need to point your head downward, and you need to have anatomical adaptations to do that." Tiktaalik, he noted, "apparently has quite a mobile neck," so perhaps it came up with a similar solution. Mosses Reach Down for Nitrogen Nitrogen is crucial for plant growth, and plants commonly get it from the soil. But mosses are not vascular  — that is, they lack developed roots and specialized tissues for transporting water and nutrients around the plant. So mosses, it has been generally considered, get their nitrogen largely from above, not below — by atmospheric deposition. Now British researchers have found evidence that some mosses, at least, can take up nitrogen from the soil and transport it to their shoots. The researchers, led by Edward Ayres of Lancaster University, experimented with two mosses common to the Scottish heaths. One, Polytrichum alpinum, is known to be able to absorb water from the soil. The other, Racomitrium lanuginosum, mainly absorbs water from precipitation. So the researchers thought it possible that P. alpinum could take up nitrogen dissolved in water injected into the soil, but that R. lanuginosum would not. (They used an isotope of nitrogen to track uptake.) Advertisement Instead, as reported in the journal Biology Letters, they found that both species had an increased concentration of the nitrogen isotope in their shoots, indicating that both were able to take nitrogen from the soil. Since the two species are different physiologically, the researchers suggest that soil uptake of nitrogen may be common among mosses. If so, that would make the mosses — which with more than 10,000 species are among the most diverse of plant groups — a primary competitor for soil nitrogen.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Munching on Mom When it comes to providing for their children, most parents would give them the shirts off their backs. Among a certain species of amphibian found in East Africa, however, the mothers dispense with the shirts. They give their actual backs — the outer layer of skin off of it, and off the rest of their bodies for that matter. Hatchlings of the species, an armless and legless type called a caecilian, have special teeth that enable them to peel the skin off their mothers. The hatchlings eat the skin, which is thicker than normal, swollen with fats and other nutrients. It's their only source of food during their first days. This remarkable behavior was observed by Alexander Kupfer of the Natural History Museum in London and colleagues and reported in the journal Nature. Like all other caecilians, Boulengerula taitanus looks less like a frog or toad and more like a worm — and a large one at that, since the adults can be about a foot long. And like many other caecilians it is oviparous, meaning the female lays eggs that develop outside the body. It had been thought that among oviparous caecilians, the mother's only contribution to feeding the young was the yolk provided in the egg. After that it was on its own. Other caecilians are viviparous, with the mother providing constant nourishment as the young develop inside her. So among caecilian lineages, skin feeding may represent an intermediate stage in the evolution of parental care, between the minimal involvement of other oviparous species and the greater involvement of viviparous ones. Looking for Alien Light The SETI project has been searching for extraterrestrial intelligence for years now, analyzing radio signals from deep space for patterns or other signs that they are the work of beings. But what if instead of radio waves, extraterrestrials were sending out waves of laser light? Advertisement There are a few so-called optical SETI programs around, including one near Columbus, Ohio, that uses a 10-inch telescope, and another at the Oak Ridge Observatory in Harvard, Mass., which has used some of that observatory's telescopes. Oak Ridge is run by Harvard University's Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics. But the field just got a big boost with the installation of a new telescope at Oak Ridge to be used exclusively to hunt aliens. The telescope has a mirror with a 72-inch diameter, built on the cheap for about $400,000. With it the researchers will be able to scan the entire northern sky in about a year. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F3 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »