Advertisement By NICHOLAS BAKALARAPRIL 11, 2006
 Tanning, besides its other dangers, may be addictive. A small study suggests that frequent tanners, deprived of ultraviolet light, can experience symptoms similar to opioid withdrawal. The scientists compared 8 people who used tanning salons 8 to 15 times a month with 8 who visited no more than 12 times a year. Their findings appear this month in The Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology. At each of four visits, participants took increasingly larger doses of either a placebo or Naltrexone, which blocks opioid receptors and induces withdrawal symptoms in those addicted to opioids. Each was randomly assigned to tan for 10 minutes under either an ultraviolet light or an identical-looking nonultraviolet light. Frequent tanners who received a placebo exhibited greater preference for the ultraviolet light compared with nonfrequent tanners. No adverse effects were reported among the infrequent tanners at any dose of Naltrexone, but at a 15-milligram dose, four of the eight frequent tanners began to experience nausea or jitteriness, consistent with opiate withdrawal. Advertisement Ultraviolet radiation, the authors suggest, may produce endorphins, which have properties like opioids. The results suggest a physiological explanation for previous reports, including one last year in Archives of Dermatology, that some people are obsessive sunbathers. Advertisement "I don't think we've proven that tanning is addictive," said Dr. Steven R. Feldman, senior author of the paper and a professor of dermatology at Wake Forest. "But people aren't tanning just to look good. Anyone who goes to the beach and lies out in the sun knows how pleasant and relaxing it is." A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F7 of the New York edition with the headline: Frequent Tanners Can Quit Anytime, or Can They?.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »