Advertisement By ELIZABETH SVOBODAAPRIL 4, 2006
 When Stephen Yanoviak visited the jungles of Panama in 1998 to study how ants forage, he found himself with some unexpected downtime. "Out of boredom, I started flicking some ants off of a tree," he said. And he saw something extraordinary. Some of the ants fell straight, but others swerved at near-right angles and landed on tree trunks feet from the ground. Dr. Yanoviak, a University of Florida entomologist, forgot about the bizarre insect gliders until several years later, when he was assaulted by the same ant species, Cephalotes atratus, during a mosquito-collecting trip to the Peruvian rainforest. "I was sitting on a branch and they were crawling all over me, so I tried to push them off," he said. "They fell, but immediately turned around and glided right back to the tree trunk. That's when I realized this was something worth investigating." Advertisement After returning from his trip, Dr. Yanoviak mentioned the gliding ant sighting to his colleague Robert Dudley, an animal flight expert at the University of California,  Berkeley. "I thought it was the most exciting thing I'd ever heard," Dr. Dudley said, and he decided to join Dr. Yanoviak in exploring this uncharted biological territory. Since then, their research has shed light on the airborne survival strategies many wingless insect species have, and on the question of how insect flight originated. Advertisement With the entomologist Michael Kaspari of the University of Oklahoma, the two took video of the ants' descents, looking for clues about how their structure and movements enabled complex aerial maneuvers. The ants' hang time was impressive not because their bodies were particularly aerodynamic, but because they knew how to move their long limbs around to reduce drag. They moved their left hind legs outward and rotated them, an off-kilter motion that allowed them to maintain altitude. "Any object can generate lift if it's asymmetric to the air stream," Dr. Dudley said. "If you put your hand out the window of a car and rotate it, you'll feel it being lifted. Hands aren't that aerodynamic, and neither are the ants, but you'll get this effect just the same." The legs' increased distance from the ants' center of mass also creates torque, spinning their bodies around — and accounting for the spectacular swerves they often display before coming in for a landing. The scientists' hunch that the ants' movements, not their body shapes, chiefly dictated their gliding paths was confirmed when they started chopping off appendages to see if the insects could still soar. The ants showed remarkable resilience. They coasted to controlled landings after multiple leg amputations and even after removal of their abdomens, which ordinarily comprise 30 percent of their body weight. When the researchers covered the insects' eyes with dots of white nail polish, however, they sank to the forest floor like stones. To isolate the visual cues so critical to successful gliding, Dr. Dudley and Dr. Yanoviak returned to the Panamanian jungle last November to carry out what they called their "Christo experiments." They hung fabric swaths in an array of rainbow colors high in the forest, then perched in the treetops and dropped hundreds of ants. Light colors, especially white, elicited the most consistent gliding behavior, with the insects veering acutely toward the banners and landing on them. Advertisement These results hinted at gliding's importance as an evolutionary adaptation. The ants have a vested interest in staying near their home tree, since they are likely to be trampled or eaten on the forest floor. White lichen that grows on trunks of rainforest trees serves as a useful signpost, pointing them toward safe territory.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. "There's lots of wind up in the canopy, and ants can easily get blown off course," Dr. Dudley said. "A worker has to be able to find its way home again." A paper detailing these findings will be published in a coming issue of the Journal of Experimental Biology. The scientists' most recent rainforest trips also yielded high-resolution video  showing that several other ant species glide, as do the larvae of insects like grasshoppers and praying mantises. "In their immature stages when they don't have wings, a lot of these insects can glide back to the trunk, and they do it really well," Dr. Yanoviak said. "That suggests it's a pretty pervasive behavior among insects." There are very few similarities between insect gliders and other gliders. While the ants direct their descent with calibrated movements of their limbs, flying squirrels sport epic flaps of skin between their front and hind legs. These flaps act like the wings of the Wright brothers' first gliders — their broad and relatively streamlined shape produces lift and minimizes drag, allowing the animals to stay aloft longer. A rare species of Malaysian spotted lizard catches air by thrusting out its rib cage to create rudderlike projections on either side of its body. "There really aren't many common structures that are necessary for gliding," Dr. Dudley said. "It seems to be something that had multiple independent origins." Understanding the mechanics of insect gliding could eventually help engineers develop techniques like controlled parachuting and pallet-dropping. For now, Dr. Dudley and Yanoviak are most enthusiastic about tracking down the missing evolutionary link between flightless and flying insects. Ants previously had wings and lost them, making them less than ideal to demonstrate this link, but the researchers have started zeroing in on silverfish, which never developed wings but can still glide. "This could be how the first flight began—insects just jumped off branches and started gliding," said Brian Fisher, an insect behavior specialist at the California Academy of Sciences. The best way to assess where gliders fit on the evolutionary continuum between land- and air-dwelling insects, he added, would be to study the characteristics that allow silverfish to glide and compare them to those of the earliest known flying insects. "There's a big gap in the fossil record between insects that look like they might be able to glide and insects that have wings," Dr. Dudley said. "The insect equivalent of Archaeopteryx has not yet been found. Locating that would be huge." A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F3 of the New York edition with the headline: Wingless Gliders May Reveal the Origins of Insect Flight.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »