Advertisement By NICHOLAS BAKALARAUG. 15, 2006
 Men with low testosterone were much more likely to die within a specified time frame than their counterparts with normal levels, researchers reported yesterday. Low testosterone levels, common in aging men, are associated with insulin resistance, which can be a precursor of diabetes and other serious diseases. The researchers used a Veterans Affairs database to study the medical histories of 858 men over age 40 for four years, categorizing their testosterone as low, normal or equivocal, with varying low and normal tests. Just over half had normal levels, 28 percent were equivocal and 19 percent low. The findings appear in The Archives of Internal Medicine. Men with equivocal testosterone had a 38 percent greater risk of death during the study than those with normal testosterone, and those with low testosterone levels had an 88 percent greater risk. Advertisement The correlations held after controlling for age, medical morbidity, weight in proportion to height, race and other factors.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “People need to look at these results very cautiously,” said Dr. Molly Shores, the lead author of the study and an associate professor of psychiatry at the University of Washington. A major concern, Dr. Shores said, is the use of synthetic testosterone, considering  the marked increase in its use over the last five years. Advertisement “This study,” she added, “did not examine the effects of testosterone treatment on mortality, and you can’t conclude from this that testosterone replacement will decrease mortality.” A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F6 of the New York edition with the headline: Lower Testosterone Linked to Higher Death Risk.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »