Advertisement By REUTERSDEC. 12, 2006
 DALLAS, Dec. 11 — More CPR, less shock. That was the new directive issued by the American Heart Association on Monday for emergency workers helping victims of cardiac arrest. Tests show that giving a little cardiopulmonary resuscitation before repeatedly using a defibrillator can help more patients survive a crisis in which their heart stops pumping blood effectively. CPR, which involves manual compressions of the chest, is the standard first aid response to someone suffering cardiac arrest. Previous guidelines stressed the use of a defibrillator, normally administered by emergency medical personnel after their arrival at the scene. Advertisement However, defibrillators meant for use by laypeople are also being installed in airports, gyms and other public areas. Advertisement “The new way of thinking is that we should administer shocks only at key times in order to provide more CPR during the resuscitation,” said Dr. Thomas Rea, who led a study that was published in the journal Circulation and was used as the basis for the new guidelines. “The idea is that the CPR prepares the heart to better accept the shock and have the shock work,” Dr. Rea, an associate professor of medicine at Harborview Medical Center at the University of Washington in Seattle, said in a statement.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The old guidelines called for repeated shocks and a pulse check before administering CPR. The new method employs a single shock followed by two minutes of CPR, the heart association said. For most laypeople who have no access to a defibrillator, the standard response remains the same. “In most circumstances, the layperson can recognize that there is an emergency, call 911 and administer CPR while they wait for the emergency responders,” Dr. Rea said. The new approach was tested in King County, Wash., by emergency medical technicians, who started using the procedure on Jan. 1, 2005. “The researchers defined survival as surviving at least through hospital discharge,” the heart association said. “They found that from 2002 through 2004, survival rate after cardiac arrest averaged 33 percent when patients were resuscitated out of the hospital using 2000 guidelines. “Survival improved to an average 46 percent for the group that received resuscitation with the new 2005 protocol.” A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F6 of the New York edition with the headline: New Guidelines Alter Cardiac Arrest Response.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »