Advertisement By JOHN SCHWARTZDEC. 11, 2006
 CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla., Dec. 10 — Cmdr. Sunita Williams, one of seven astronauts aboard the shuttle Discovery, says that until the NASA media relations team started preparing the crew to answer questions about their ethnic diversity, “we didn’t even realize it — and I think that’s sort of neat in itself.” The crew of the Discovery, which blasted off on Saturday night, may be the most diverse NASA has ever launched — the proverbial war-movie bomber crew, only more so. Two members are African-American — the first time two black astronauts have flown on the same mission. Another was born in England, and a fourth in Sweden. Commander Williams, of the Navy, is half Indian. “We’re so many international partners and cosmonauts, astronauts who are around us all the time,” she said of the space community in general, “that you don’t even recognize that. I hope it sends a positive signal that this is a slice of America, a slice of the world.” Advertisement The crew is also remarkable for the number of rookies on board. Just two members of the Discovery’s crew — the commander, Mark L. Polansky, a former Air Force test pilot, and Capt. Robert L. Curbeam Jr. of the Navy — have been on previous flights, and they only have three flights between them. The rest of the crew will be taking their first trip. Advertisement “I know that they are going to do a fantastic job,” Commander Polansky said. Still, he added, anyone’s first extended experience with weightlessness is unpredictable. To deal with problems like nausea that can crop up among the first-timers, Commander Polansky said, “Everybody has a backup, and everybody has a job to do in case somebody has to be by themselves for a little while.” On his previous flight, he recalled, “I didn’t feel the greatest for about a day.” On the second day of the mission, “it’s like somebody flipped a switch, and all of a sudden I had an appetite and felt great — the rest of the trip, it was like nothing ever happened.” Thanks to that experience, he said, he is going back to the International Space Station with confidence: “I know exactly how I’m going to feel. I know exactly how I’m going to sleep. I know what it’s like to float around, how to maneuver myself.” THE CREW Mark L. Polansky, 50, whose NASA nickname, Roman, is a play on the film director Roman Polanski, is making his second trip to space. His first was aboard the shuttle Atlantis in 2001 that delivered the United States laboratory module, known as Destiny, to the International Space Station. He was raised in Edison, N.J., where his mother still lives, and received his undergraduate and graduate degrees in engineering from Purdue University. A former Air Force test pilot, he left active duty in 1992 to join NASA as a research pilot and an aerospace engineer. He was selected for the astronaut corps in 1996. He is married to the former Lisa Ristow of San Antonio; they have one daughter. His hobbies include ice hockey, snow skiing and light aircraft flying. Advertisement In an interview with The New York Times, he recalled a childhood connection with the paper. An aunt, Louise Sims, was the publisher’s personal secretary, and as a boy he loved to visit the building. “I used to get to run around the conference table in the chairman’s room,” he said. “Which was pretty cool.” The pilot, William A. Oefelein, 41, a commander in the Navy, grew up in Anchorage, Alaska. He got his undergraduate degree in electrical engineering from Oregon State University and his master’s in aviation systems from the University of Tennessee Space Institute. Within NASA, he answers to “Billy O.” Alaska’s vastness gave him his love of flying, he said in an interview. “We didn’t have a lot of roads to travel on, but surely a lot of area to explore,” he said, and so in his teens, he began flying “as a way to explore, whether you’re trying to find a new fishing hole or a new camping spot.” He became a pilot in the Navy, which in turn led him to NASA. He has two children and enjoys weightlifting, snowboarding, fishing and back-country hiking. Capt. Robert L. Curbeam Jr., 44, comes from Baltimore and is a dedicated weightlifter. “I love to lift weights,” he said, adding that it has helped him deal with the physical demands of spacewalks. He earned a bachelor of science in aerospace engineering from the United States Naval Academy and a master of science from the Navy Postgraduate School, and was selected by NASA as an astronaut in 1994. Captain Curbeam, whose colleagues call him Beamer, is the crew member with the most space experience, having flown on two previous missions, in 1997 and 2001, when he flew with Commander Polansky and helped to install the Destiny module. That job included working with ammonia lines, which cool equipment, and power and data lines, as well as moving massive objects. Advertisement “I performed just about every kind of task you can on a spacewalk,” he said, “so that gives me a lot of comfort right there.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. He has two children. Joan E. Higginbotham, 42, grew up in Chicago, and held up a sign reading “Da Bears” before climbing into the Discovery for her first flight. She worked as an electrical engineer at the Kennedy Space Center at Cape Canaveral and rose to become the lead project engineer for the shuttle Columbia. In nine years at the space center, she took part in 53 shuttle launchings. By 1996, she was selected as an astronaut candidate after being encouraged by Jay F. Honeycutt, the former director of the space center. She said that at first she did not take the suggestion seriously, and “I figured he would stop asking me if I applied.” She is one of the rare astronauts who crossed over from NASA’s operations side. It has given her a perspective from both sides of the space agency, she said, and keeps in mind that “We get all the glory for work that is done by thousands of other people.” She is also enjoys motivational speaking, she said. “I try to inspire children,” she said. “I don’t tell them ‘oh, you need to become an astronaut.’ I tell them, ‘You need to be the best at whatever it is you want to be’” Nicholas J. M. Patrick, 42, was born in North Yorkshire, England. He calls London and Rye, N.Y., home, and has been a United States citizen since 1994. He has a Ph.D. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Mr. Patrick says that the lessons of the Challenger and Columbia disasters have been taken to heart by NASA, and that the agency is doing all it can to reduce risk. Space travel is “inevitably going to be a risky endeavor, and we all have agreed implicitly, by being here, to tolerate some level of risk in order to enjoy the fruits of spaceflight — both personal and institutional, and national.” Advertisement “So we’ve done everything we can to control those technical risks.” But an astronaut’s work keeps him so busy, he said, “Even if there were something to worry about I’m not sure I’d have time to worry about it.” He is married. His hobbies include flying, reading, scuba diving and tae kwon do.  Christer Fuglesang, 49, a representative of the European Space Agency, is the first Swedish astronaut. His interests include sailing, skiing and ultimate Frisbee, in which he is a world-ranked player. “I did compete once in the world championships,” he said; they were organized by the company that made Frisbees at the time, Wham-O (which he pronounced “vam-OO”). Without gravity, of course, he can keep the Frisbee aloft as long as he wants to. “It’s very easy to set the world record in space,” he said dryly. He and his wife, the former Elisabeth Walldie, have three children. Sunita L. Williams, 41, who grew up in Needham, Mass., goes by Suni, aptly pronounced “sunny.” She has an avid interest in exercise, and performed mock bodybuilding moves for the cameras recording the astronauts preparing for their flight. On the mission patch for this flight, Commander Williams’s name is set off from the other astronauts’: she will not spend the entire flight with the crew but will remain on the space station for a six-month stay. Thomas Reiter of the European Space Agency, who has been living on the station, will climb aboard the shuttle for his ride back to earth. She said her husband, Michael J. Williams, groused that after this long trip to space, “You’re going to want to go again.” To which she replied, “You never know; I might not like it.” She smiled and continued, “He goes, ‘I don’t believe you for a moment — you’re going to love it.’” We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »