Advertisement OCT. 17, 2006
 The Debate Over Resuscitation To the Editor: Re “The Last Word on the Last Breath” (Oct. 10): As a physician in New York, there are many times I am faced with having the “last breath” discussion. Too often families are confused as to what a do not resuscitate, or D.N.R., order means for their loved ones. And naturally they hold out hope for a miracle in the face of terminal illnesses. Unfortunately, Jan Hoffman saves for her last paragraph the most important point of the article. If doctors would refocus the discussion toward maintaining dignity and avoiding suffering in the final minutes of life, more families would agree to sign D.N.R. orders. They would understand that part of being a good doctor is caring for the living and the dying. In doing so we need to help patients and their families start the grieving process earlier and help guide them through this critical time. Leon S. Maratchi, M.D.New York • To the Editor: In a country where we learn from our mistakes, are doctors actually arrogant enough to believe that they can outsmart miracles? In the case of whether to resuscitate chronically ill patients, even if it is pointless by medical standards, the mental welfare of the patients’ remaining family is more important. Is it really so difficult to spend the extra 15 minutes pumping a patient’s chest so that the family member can believe that everything possible was done for their loved one? Advertisement It is human nature to hold on to the ones we love, even if our brain tells us there is no hope. It should be up to the patient or the family member to decide whether they have faith that miracles can happen, not up to the doctor to decide if his or her medical expertise outweighs that faith. Advertisement Leanne McClaflin San Francisco The Value of Psychoanalysis To the Editor: “A Conversation With Dr. Owen Renik” (Oct. 10) raised many relevant issues about the promise and limitations of psychoanalysis. The point that the purpose of psychoanalytic treatment is change, and that progress in the patient’s condition is central as the aim and basis for judging its efficacy, was rightly stressed as critical. The precise techniques or procedures used, he emphasized, are less important than the outcome. Self-awareness or insight are steps in achieving that progress. People make the best choices they can given the limitations of their assumptions, and psychoanalytic treatment gives patients the opportunity to realize what those assumptions are, examine them and make better choices for their lives.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Thomas Kranjac, M.D.New York A Big Cat Comes Home To the Editor: Re “Jaguars Steal Back to the Southwest” (Oct. 10): Jaguars deserve protected critical habitat and a recovery plan to ensure their future in the United States, where they used to live far beyond the Mexican border. Writer Peter Matthiessen cites “Tygers” in the Carolinas in the 1700’s; John James Audubon reported jaguars at the headwaters of the Rio Grande. Some argue that since only transient male jaguars roam the United States  today, the  species need not be recovered. That logic did not make sense for wolves, which were also extirpated but then reintroduced. It should apply no more to North America’s largest native cat. Michael J. RobinsonPinos Altos, N.M. Strep and Antibiotics To the Editor: Re “Strep Symptoms: When to Use Antibiotics” (Personal Health, Oct 10): As a medical student, I can appreciate the importance of reducing antibiotic use when needed. However, I am also one of the rare Americans who contracted rheumatic fever after a strep infection. While one of the lucky cases, I still have detectable heart trouble, take monthly penicillin injections and have to worry about managing my future pregnancies. I would encourage all parents to pursue a definitive strep diagnosis before starting antibiotics, but also be aware of the lifelong consequences of a strep infection slipping through the cracks. Sangeetha KolluriNew York A version of this letter appears in print on , on Page F4 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »