Advertisement By ERIC NAGOURNEYOCT. 10, 2006
 Is there something about menthol cigarettes, popular among many smokers for the sensation of coolness they create, that makes them harder to give up than ordinary cigarettes? A new study reports that smokers who favor menthol cigarettes are twice as likely to fall off the wagon after quitting than people who smoke other cigarettes. The findings are in the Sept. 25 issue of The Archives of Internal Medicine. The researchers followed the health of smokers over 15 years, looking at health changes in more than 1,500 people. Their goal was to determine why African-Americans, who smoke less than whites do, suffer a higher rate of smoking-related illnesses. Since menthol cigarettes are far more popular among black smokers — about 70 percent of black smokers prefer them, compared with 30 percent of white smokers — the researchers were curious whether the additive was playing a role in the higher mortality rate. Advertisement One explanation, the researchers said, could lie in the fact that menthol increases the permeability of the skin and mucus membranes to drugs and leads to smokers holding their breath longer. It may also produce carcinogenic compounds when burned. The study found no difference in health measures between menthol and nonmenthol smokers per cigarette. It did, however, find that menthol cigarettes may be harder to stay away from. It also found some evidence that menthol smokers are less likely to try to quit. Advertisement “Menthol smokers appear to have a harder time quitting and may need extra encouragement,” said Dr. Mark J. Pletcher, the study’s lead author and a professor of epidemiology at the University of California, San Francisco. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F6 of the New York edition with the headline: Study Says Menthol Makes Habit Tougher to Kick.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »