Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
 HENRY FOUNTAIN
 
OCT. 17, 2006
 To Protect Endangered Wolves, a Vaccine Strategy One way to prevent outbreaks of infectious disease in animals or people is to vaccinate nearly all of the population. That’s why almost every child is immunized against mumps and measles, for example. But what if such a broad vaccination program is impossible? That was the problem faced by scientists working to conserve the Ethiopian wolf, the most endangered canine species in the world. Only 500 of these animals exist, in remote mountainous parts of central and northern Ethiopia. A major outbreak of a disease like rabies or distemper could lead to their extinction. Vaccinating any wild animal is difficult, but these wolves pose special problems, including the rough terrain and the need to use vaccines that must be injected rather than oral ones, which have not been approved for use in Africa. But scientists in Britain have discovered an alternative approach to protecting these animals. By quickly and selectively immunizing a relatively small number of wolves at the beginning of an outbreak, they say, the disease can be contained. “The idea is small outbreaks can be tolerated, but large ones cannot,” said Dan Haydon, a statistical ecologist at Glasgow University. Advertisement Dr. Haydon, with colleagues from Edinburgh University and from Oxford University’s wildlife conservation research unit, which has been studying Ethiopian wolves for nearly two decades, used data from a 2003 rabies outbreak to model vaccination strategies. The findings are reported in Nature. Advertisement In that outbreak, conservation workers vaccinated 37 percent of the wolves. But the outbreak’s severity was reduced, and the modeling shows why. Most of the wolves live in packs in the mountains, but a few packs live in valleys, which serve as connecting corridors for the mountain packs. The models showed that the 2003 strategy, concentrating the vaccinations among wolves in or near these the corridors, worked. Dr. Haydon said it should be sufficient to vaccinate as little as 25 percent of the population during an outbreak. But success hinges on close monitoring: once a wolf carcass is found and rabies or another disease is confirmed, conservation workers must quickly move to vaccinate wolves in the corridors ahead of the disease front. “It’s a race between the disease and the vaccine,” he said. Moths vs. Bats If organisms evolve through response to selection pressures — predation being a major one — it stands to reason that in the absence of selection pressure, de-evolution of a sort may occur. Consider the large family of nocturnal moths, the Noctuidae, for example. They aren’t active during the day, so they escape predation by birds. But flying at night makes them a handy target of another animal: bats. So an “acoustic startle response” has evolved in the hearing system of many noctuids. When they sense a high-frequency echolocation call from a bat, the moths either dart around or stop flying completely, going into a free fall, to avoid being caught and eaten. It’s thought that this response is due to a single auditory receptor neuron, which fires away when a bat call is heard. But if there are no bats around, noctuid moths eventually lose this startle response. James H. Fullard of the University of Toronto at Mississauga and colleagues have determined just how this happens. Advertisement They studied moths in Tahiti (it’s hard, sometimes, being a scientist). The island has been bat-free throughout its several million years of existence, and the noctuids there don’t exhibit the startle response. But it is not that the auditory system has disappeared, the researchers say in a paper in Biology Letters. The neuron still exists, and it has roughly the same sensitivity to high-frequency calls as moths found elsewhere. What is different is that in the Tahitian moths, when the neuron does fire, it doesn’t fire as often.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The researchers say their finding suggests that the evolutionary disappearance of the startle response is a gradual process and, in this case at least, is incomplete. Wheat Is Wheat, Organic or Not There are plenty of reasons to choose organic foods, but is better nutrition one of them? Or are organic foods less nutritious than conventionally grown ones? In the case of wheat, no one really knows. Some studies have compared organic and conventional wheat, but most of these have shortcomings. Often they are comparing apples and oranges: wheats that are grown in different regions, using different varieties, and that are harvested and processed under different conditions. So Christian Zörb of the Federal Research Center for Nutrition and Food and colleagues set out to find a definitive answer. They used wheat grown organically and conventionally in carefully controlled field trials near Basel, Switzerland. Identical varieties were used in all trials, and crop rotation and tilling were kept the same. In a paper in The Journal of Agricultural and Food Chemistry, the researchers report their analysis of about 50 components of organic and conventional wheat, including amino acids like alanine and lysine, sugars like fructose and glucose, sugar alcohols, organic acids and other compounds, including urea and pantothenic acid, or vitamin B5. They found no statistical difference in the amounts of these metabolites between organic and conventional wheat. So organic wheat is not better for you. But then again it isn’t worse, either. Advertisement Hubble Camera Is Back The Hubble Space Telescope’s highest-resolution camera is back in operation three weeks after it shut down unexpectedly because of an open electrical circuit, the Space Telescope Science Institute reported. The problem involved a detector that is part of the Advanced Camera for Surveys, the telescope’s most frequently used camera. Other elements of the camera were unaffected. Engineers at the institute, which operates the telescope, say the open circuit was most likely caused by a bit of dust that became lodged in a relay. They solved the problem by sending software commands to open and close the relay several times — like flipping a switch back and forth — to clear out the dirt. It was the second malfunction involving the camera since June. NASA has yet to decide whether to undertake a servicing mission to the telescope that would keep it in service until 2011 or 2012. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F3 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »