Advertisement By ERIC NAGOURNEYNOV. 7, 2006
 The scourge of elementary school, head lice, may have a formidable new enemy, even if it is just air. Researchers said yesterday that they had developed a blow-dryer-like device that appears to get rid of lice and their eggs in a single half-hour session. “We think that it works by drying them out,” said the lead author of the study, Dr. Dale H. Clayton, a biologist at the University of Utah. “The key is volume of air, not heat.” The report appears in the current issue of Pediatrics. Anyone who has had to deal with lice can attest to how difficult they are to get rid of. According to the study, the problem results in tens of millions of lost school days. Dr. Clayton and his colleagues hit upon the idea of using blown air as a treatment, as they were trying to find a way to keep lice alive in a dry climate. Dr. Clayton studies bird lice but had trouble keeping them alive when he moved to Utah because it is so arid. Later, when his two children got lice, he said, he got the idea of using air. The researchers tried six methods on 169 volunteers. All did well at killing the nits, but there were differences in how well they killed the lice. The best result came from a device now being commercially developed by the researchers for use at schools and clinics that combines a plastic hand piece with an air source. The device puts out heated air but at much larger volume than a blow dryer. Apart from the apparent effectiveness of the device, it may offer another advantage over current methods. Lice cases are on the rise because the creatures have developed resistance to the chemicals used against them. They are not likely to do so with the dry-air method, the researchers said. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F6 of the New York edition with the headline: Researchers Devise New Weapon for Head Lice.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »