Advertisement By WILLIAM J. BROADOCT. 24, 2006
 VIENNA — Eager for precision in a field notorious for ambiguity and frustration, curators at top museums in Europe and the United States have long reached for the instruments of nuclear science to hit treasures of art with invisible rays. The resulting clues have helped answer vexing questions of provenance, age and authenticity. Now such insights are going global. The International Atomic Energy Agency, a United Nations unit best known for fighting the spread of nuclear arms, is working hard to foster such methods in the developing world, letting scientists and conservators in places like Peru, Ghana and Kazakhstan act as better custodians of their cultural heritage. “It’s very exciting,” said Matthias Rossbach, an agency official who helps direct the endeavor. “I learn so much.” The agency runs the program as an adjunct to its global advancement of nuclear and related technologies for peaceful uses. In a way, it is one of the carrots meant to offset the intrusive policing that the agency does around the world to try to make sure nations refrain from secretive cheating in pursuit of nuclear arms. Advertisement Here at the agency’s headquarters, in late September at its annual conference, Dr. Rossbach and colleagues set up a booth to publicize the program and took time to explain analytic gear and its applications to a reporter and delegates from the agency’s 140 member states. The booth brandished the team’s credo: “Protecting the Past for the Future.” Advertisement In a nearby building, beneath a rotunda decorated with flags from around the world, a display featured some of the collaboration’s recent findings. Exhibited were dozens of scientific papers and abstracts describing how research projects had used the nuclear methods to address historic and artistic riddles. For instance, Chinese scientists had fired the subatomic particles known as neutrons at ancient pottery from the Tang dynasty, which ruled China from A.D. 618 to 906. The analysis is helping them uncover the artworks’ origins in regional workshops. In an interview, Feng Songlin, a scientist at the Institute of High Energy Physics in Beijing, said he found the agency’s program “very helpful for Chinese archaeology research and for me.” He said it had helped him ascertain the best analytical methods, prepare samples and learn how to interpret the findings. Mexican scientists have also applied such methods to colonial-era pottery. Pieces once thought to have been imported from Spain turned out to have been made locally. Dr. Rossbach said his own part of the collaboration extended to 15 countries, involved about 60 scientists and would run from 2005 to 2008 at a cost of about $230,000. His regular job involves no nuclear arms policing but rather helps industries use atomic technologies. “We don’t have a lot of money,” he said as delegates looked around the booth. Even so, he added, his art collaborators were accomplishing much. “It’s exciting to see the progress.” Dr. Rossbach said that during the annual conference, he and his colleagues were repeatedly meeting to compare notes and discuss plans for future investigations. The methods they use, some of the most fundamental in nuclear science, include neutron activation analysis, proton-induced X-ray emission, accelerator mass spectrometry and X-ray fluorescence spectrometry. In many cases, developing states have already acquired some of the expensive technologies in efforts to aid the analytical work of industries and governments, so the added costs of art analysis can be relatively low. Advertisement The advances are striking because the world of art, when limited to its own techniques, often finds itself hard pressed to achieve basic goals like verifying the origins of pieces, especially very old ones. The standard historical approach of comparing style and iconography, even when coupled with painstaking detective work in archives and distant collections, has often proved inconclusive or at times even deceptive. The atomic methods, some applied to artistic analysis for the first time in the 1970’s and 80’s, have revolutionized the field of art history. For instance, the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York gained a wealth of insights into the provenance of old sculptures in its collection, including some sculptured heads separated from torsos during the French Revolution. The trouble arose when radicals, mistaking statues of religious figures for royalty, developed a taste for decapitation. The museum’s detective work began at a nuclear reactor, where operators would bombard detached bits of the artwork with speeding neutrons. The resulting showers of gamma rays revealed the presence of trace elements in distinct patterns. These identifying signatures let museum curators make matches with the similarly revealed signatures of European churches, quarries and carvings. For instance, they recently found that one of the sculptured heads in a current exhibition, “Set in Stone: The Face in Medieval Sculpture,” came from a quarry that supplied statuary to either Notre Dame or another 13th-century Parisian church. The show features a companion exhibit on how neutron activation analysis can help solve the mysteries of provenance. The Louvre in Paris has a very long accelerator in its basement that fires subatomic particles at artwork to discover compositional clues. Maria Filomena Guerra, a specialist there in ancient gold artifacts, traveled to Vienna last month to help the international atomic agency with its outreach program.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The agency is now fostering the development of such techniques in Hungary, among other countries. In Budapest, scientists are using a cousin of the neutron technique to study Stone Age pottery, including a graceful bowl from a cave in the Bukk mountains. The method is known as prompt gamma activation analysis. The Hungarian scientists are using the gamma method to compare pottery from eight sites with a variety of clay samples in hope of establishing where the pots arose. The trace elements so far identified include vanadium, neodymium, samarium and gadolinium. Advertisement The scientists, Zsolt Kasztovszky, Katalin  Brio and Katalin Gherdan, plan to expand the number of investigated sites and soils to produce a comprehensive portrait of artistic evolution in Stone Age Hungary. Despite the chaos of war, Lebanese scientists recently traveled to Vienna to continue their investigations. In Beirut, they made use of a particle accelerator at the Lebanese Atomic Energy Commission that spews out ions, or electrically charged atoms. They fired these at clay storage jars of antiquity that were used to hold things like wine, olive oil, honey and fish. The speeding ions caused the amphorae to glow in characteristic X-rays that revealed, again, distinctive patterns of elements, including gallium, strontium, zirconium and niobium. Preliminary results of the signature analysis, they reported, linked an amphora found in France to pottery made in Beirut during the Roman period. Another analysis discovered family relationships between Beirut ceramics and those in Syria at Amrit and Ras-al-basit. Mohamad Roumie, a nuclear physicist at the Beirut center, called the agency’s program “a good opportunity to learn and to see what is new.” He said, for instance, that he had learned a lot about computer programs that can make interpretative results more precise. Dr. Rossbach of the international atomic agency said he had recently administered a kind of proficiency test to the program’s members. They were sent bits of powdered Chinese porcelain for analysis, and the results they obtained were then compared with the agency’s findings. “It was,” he said, “like a teacher grading a report. The objective was to help them improve their method.” At the booth, other scientists from the agency spoke of its recent aid to foreign analysts. “In developing countries, many laboratories are asked to help” address questions of art, said Mohammad Haji-Saeid, a physicist. “So they approach the agency for support and after that will become the service provider to their national museum.” Peru, he said, had recently asked for such aid. At the booth, the scientists had set up one of their instruments, a portable X-ray fluorescence spectrometer, a device little bigger than a golf bag. When in operation, its beam of X-rays stimulates material under observation to glow at various wavelengths, allowing the identification of constituent elements. Advertisement The method is cheaper, easier and faster than the neutron technique, though slightly less precise. The scientists said the agency had developed the portable device for use in art museums, and they demonstrated how it worked by training it on a piece of painted canvas. To the naked eye of an observer, admittedly no art expert, the paint looked dull and drab, almost too plain for words. But the X-rays revealed a kaleidoscope of pigment elements, rendered on the computer monitor as a series of wiggly lines. The scientists identified the peaks as sulfur, calcium, titanium, iron and zinc. Such chemical signatures, they said, could help confirm whether the pigment and painting were actually made at an advertised date, because paint formulas often changed over the decades. In this case, the paint was modern. “All these blueprints and technical details are available cost free to all member states,” Dariusz Wegrzynek, a physicist who leads the X-ray fluorescence lab, said of the machine. States that have inquired, he said, include Syria and Poland. Dr. Rossbach said the program excited him because in the process of teaching he discovered so much about global art as well as its diverse ranks of scientific custodians. “I’ve learned about pottery in China and icons in Poland,” he said. “I know the techniques they’re using and can discuss whether they’re doing it right. So that, I think, is a very good exchange.” A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F1 of the New York edition with the headline: Rays and Neutrons, for Art’s Sake.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »