Advertisement OCT. 24, 2006
 Chemicals and Pubescence To the Editor: Re “Preschool Puberty, and a Search for the Causes” (Oct. 17): The article about the possible causes of early puberty mentioned, as one possibility, the presence of “certain drugs, cosmetics, and environmental contaminants, called ‘endocrine disruptors,’ that can cause breast growth, pubic hair and other symptoms of puberty.” Those who continue to adhere to this theory cite studies involving rodents exposed to high doses of chemicals, which have no relevance to human health. No signs of precocious puberty have ever been observed in humans as a consequence of typical exposures to environmental chemicals. The “endocrine disruptor” hypothesis is just that, a hypothesis, and nothing more. Gilbert Ross, M.D.New YorkThe writer is executive director of the American Council on Science and Health • To the Editor: In a country where we are at war with trans fats and sugar, things we are trying to eliminate in children’s diets, I am amazed that “endocrine disruptors” in cosmetics and shampoos have not been more closely scrutinized. Advertisement The risk of early puberty from being exposed to these disruptors can damage more than the endocrine system. I can’t imagine what a 5-year-old developing into puberty must be going through. Advertisement Not every parent has the monetary means to go through a battery of tests to find out the cause of this early puberty. The government has to be an advocate for these children. Celia TawilBrooklyn The Key to Contraception To the Editor: Re “New Devices and Effective Options in Contraception” (Personal Health, Oct. 17): Jane Brody writes that  60 percent of unplanned pregnancies occur in women using contraception. Not to be glib, but keeping condoms in one’s nightstand (or the pill in a medicine cabinet) is not “using” contraception. When used correctly, contraceptive efficacy can be as high as 92 percent to 99 percent. The key, however, is finding the birth control that is most appropriate. Using the right contraception is an important means of self-empowerment and a crucial way to plan for the future.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Joan MalinNew YorkThe writer is president and chief executive of Planned Parenthood of New York. Choosing Organic Wheat To the Editor: “Wheat Is Wheat, Organic or Not” (Observatory, Oct. 17) concluded that organic wheat may not be better for you than conventionally grown wheat. But we eat organically grown foods because they’ve been shown to have fewer levels of pesticides, not because of their nutritional content. Nutrition being equal, I’d rather eat organics. Susan IsraelNew Hempstead, N.Y. Patients and Their Families To the Editor: Re “In the Game of Family Dynamics, Who Knows the Rules?” (Cases, Oct. 17): I was dismayed by the case study by Dr. Kent Sepkowitz. The daughter of a seriously ill patient completely misrepresents Dr. Sepkowitz’s comments while “translating” them to her father. After she has repeatedly misspoken, Dr. Sepkowitz gives up and decides to come back the next day. His conclusion? Nonpsychiatrist physicians shouldn’t try to be “amateur shrinks.” At a minimum, Dr. Sepkowitz could have spoken to the daughter separately and asked if she realized she was distorting his comments, and talked to his patient privately to ascertain what message had been received. The doctor could have used the resulting information to devise a better way to communicate with his patient. Charles BethelBethesda, Md. • To the Editor: Dr. Sepkowitz describes a patient’s daughter who consistently repeats the opposite of what the doctor is trying to tell her father. What is most baffling is why Dr. Sepkowitz never asks the woman why she is doing this. If a colleague or friend was talking nonsense would he make the effort to find out why? I hope so. Understanding the off-kilter dynamic between a daughter, who may be the caretaker, and her aged father could be essential to the patient’s well being. Advertisement Saul J. Weiner, M.D.Chicago A version of this letter appears in print on , on Page F4 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »