Advertisement By JOHN SCHWARTZJUNE 9, 2007
 Col. Frederick W. Sturckow, of the U.S. Marine Corps, goes by Rick or “CJ,” and was shuttle pilot on flights in 1998 and 2001. “When I get back, all I can think about,” he said, is “ when can I go do that again?” NASA’s training program is so extensive, he said, that he has told his crew that when they actually fly their mission, “it’s going to feel like we’re in the simulator at the Johnson Space Center,” he said. Using the abbreviation for simulation, he added, “It’s going to feel like we’re going from one sim to the next for 12 days.” He is 45 years old and calls Lakeside, Calif. his home town. As a young man, he said, he raced stock cars. He said that the risks of space flight are “part of my job,” but that he trusts the agency to make good decisions about safety and to make sure that concerns about safety are heard. He is not inured to risk, however; has two young children, and in an interview earlier this year said that when he saw his 4-year-old jumping off of an 8-foot-high stack of hay bales, “it scared me to death.” Advertisement — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — Col. Lee Joseph Archambault of the Air Force will serve as pilot on his first mission. Advertisement His inspiration for becoming an astronaut, he said, was Eugene Cernan, the last man to walk on the moon and a native of a town close to his hometown of Bellwood, Ill. “He was definitely the hometown hero of the people in the community that I grew up in,” he recalled. Col. Archambault, who is 46, joined the astronaut Corps in 1998, along with crew mates Steve Swanson and Danny Olivas, and they have all been waiting since then for a flight. But, he said, he’s not complaining. “You get here, you’re happy to be here, you wait in line, you keep doing a good job — and eventually good things will come,” he said. A a pilot who loves high-performing aircraft in the Air Force, he said the moment he was waiting for is “when the solid rocket boosters light and you have seven million pounds of thrust pushing you away from earth into space.” His nickname, going back to his Air Force days, is “Bru.” The name is an abbreviation for “bomb rack unit,” a part of an F-111 that he and his crew partner accidentally jettisoned “through an unfortunate series of switch-throws.” The unit landed harmlessly in a bombing range, but the nickname stuck. “ As my commander made it very clear to me, to have lost a $7,806 piece of equipment” was not a good thing, he said with a laugh. “In hindsight, it turned out to be nothing but a little bit of an embarrassing experience for me,” he said, and “ it was a good lesson” he carries to this day. “In the space shuttle, there’s plenty of opportunity to back up your crewmates in everything they’re doing.” — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — James F. Reilly II is 53 years old and grew up in Mesquite, Tex. He has a Ph.D. in geosciences, and is coming back to the station six years after his first visit. This is his third mission. In an interview, he said people have often asked him to describe the best thing about flying in space after having flown the first time. After long thought, he said he has an answer: “It’s not so much what you see and what you feel and what you do, it’s who you fly with. You know, you get up there and you’re with these people and you’re doing this incredible work and going through what is a phenomenal experience, and you just get to know these people really well.” He also said that the number of opportunities to fly will dwindle was the program nears its end. “At some point you realize that this one might be your last flight, which this one may be my last, just doing the math of the people that are in the pipeline and when we stop flying the shuttle,” he said. “This one may very well be my last flight.” Advertisement — — — — — — — — — — — — — — - Col. Patrick G. Forrester is retired from the Army and is 50. He was born in El Paso, Tex., and he and his wife have two children. He is a seasoned spacewalker, and is training his fellow spacewalkers to be ready on this mission for the fact that the training they get in the enormous swimming pool at the Johnson Space Center does not fully recreate the state of weightlessness, and that it’s important to get acclimated to the quirks of weightless living.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Even in space, although things weigh nothing, they still have mass, he explained in an interview — and mass, he said, can be tricky. “Although gravity doesn’t have an impact on it as far as wanting to pull it down toward the Earth, that it still has mass related to its velocity. So that once you get something moving, that it takes almost as much effort to get it to stop moving.” He flew with Commander Sturckow in 2001, and “I was the only one on the crew that had not flown in space before.” Commander Sturckow, he said, “grabbed me and pulled me aside and he said, ‘I want you to know that even though you’ve never flown, that I will never treat you like a rookie.’ ” That supportive attitude, he said “really endeared me to him.” NASA makes demands on the lives of its astronauts, he said. “Even if you’re not training for a mission, there are a lot of demands and requirements on the astronauts’ schedule.” He addd, however, that “it is all worth it — and it is no different than what I experienced in the military. And my family is very much behind this,” he added. — — — — — — — — — — — — — — John D. Olivas, who goes by Danny, grew up in El Paso, Tex. He and his wife have five children. In an interview, he said that many of the skills for the mission have come from before his time at NASA, “when I worked for Dow Chemical in Freeport, Texas” and did maintenance on the production plants. “Doing that kind of work taught me a lot about, I think, what I see, parallels in the kind of spacewalks and the things that we’re supposed to do in spacewalks,” he said. “I use everything, all the tools that I’ve accumulated through my life,” he said. He has a doctorate in mechanical engineering and materials science from Rice University, and has six patents. The space agency, like any organization that works with high risks, can get complacent if things get too comfortable, he said. “And then the things that you never thought would bite you end up biting you.” He added, however, that “we are very sensitive to that fact here at NASA,” and besides, “if you’re worried about everything all the time, you would never go out.” — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — Steven R. Mr. Swanson, who is 46, was born in Syracuse, N.Y., but considers Steamboat Springs, Colo. to be his hometown. He and his wife, the former Mary Drake Young, have three children. He has a doctorate in computer science from Texas A & M University, and worked for NASA in support of the space program for 10 years before being selected as an astronaut in 1998. His crew nickname is “Swanny.” Advertisement He said his children — the oldest is in his 20s, and the youngest is 11 — are all well aware that flying in space can be hazardous. “You just tell them the truth,” he said. “You tell them in life, there are some things you do that have risks, and it’s something you live with.” Like the other astronauts, he is taking a small number of personal items aboard the shuttle including a wedding ring and, for his youngest, a Lego astronaut. — — — — — — — — — — — - Clayton C. Anderson will be joining the crew of the International Space Station, taking the place of Commander Sunita Willliams of the Navy, who will be returning to Earth after six months on orbit. He is 48 years old, and comes from Ashland, Neb. He is married to the former Susan Jane Harreld; they have two children. He earned master of science degree in Aerospace Engineering from Iowa State University in 1983. He was only added to the shuttle crew recently, when NASA officials decided to bring Commander Williams back on this delayed flight instead of the later flight that had been originally planned. He said in an interview on the NASA Web site that he was inspired by the space program when his parents woke him and his brother and sister up in the middle of the night to watch television coverage of the first astronauts to go around the moon on the Apollo 8 mission. He said his mother believes that his path toward becoming an astronaut was set early on. “She says I was ready to be an astronaut at age 4 when she dressed me up in tinfoil and I got second place in the local parade during July. “She said I was robbed — I should’ve gotten first.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »