Advertisement By ERIC NAGOURNEYAPRIL 3, 2007
 Listening to a patient’s heart is a time-honored way for doctors to detect a variety of health problems. But it is not enough just to put a stethoscope to someone’s chest, and studies have found that many doctors don’t really know how to interpret what they are hearing. A new study suggests that a single session of auditory training can make a difference, at least for a while. The researchers, led by Dr. Michael J. Barrett, a cardiologist at the Temple University School of Medicine, took a group of general internists and tested their ability to detect heart murmurs. The average doctors got about 60 percent right. Then for 90 minutes, the doctors were given MP3 devices and asked to listen to five common heart murmurs 400 times. When retested, they got an average of about 80 percent right — about the same as cardiologists, the researchers said. Advertisement Other research has shown that the effect lasts about nine months, Dr. Barrett said. The murmurs that the doctors  were trained to hear can indicate a number of problems. (Some  can be heard at develop.temple.edu/temple_times/march07/DociPod.html.)  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But the doctors were also taught to recognize the most common murmur, known as the innocent murmur. It poses no health threat. Doctors who misidentify it, however, may send patients for unnecessary  tests. So it is important they trust their skills enough to tell a patient there is no problem, Dr. Barrett said. Advertisement “They’re going to hear that murmur every day,” he said, “so it was really important for them to be confident.” A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F8 of the New York edition with the headline: Ear-Tuning Helps Doctors Distinguish Heart Murmurs.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »