Advertisement By RON COWENDEC. 15, 2014
 Efforts to record the pattern of human heartbeats — the wavy lines so familiar on hospital monitors — go back at least to 1854, when a German scientist pressed a weighted plate against an artery, connected it to a stylus made of a strand of hair, and traced the pulsations on a moving strip of paper blackened by the soot of an oil lamp. Now, using innovative digital processing techniques to turn pictures of repeating waveforms into sounds, an artist and a sound historian have converted that mute pattern of lines into the rhythmic lub-dub of a heart. And working with a slightly newer medical chart, they have resurrected in sound the pulse of a 100-year-old Frenchman whose heart started beating in 1769, 20 years before the French Revolution. Using modern digital processing, researchers have given sound to some of the earliest written recordings of pulses and heartbeats. The artist, Dario Robleto, was doing research on artificial hearts for a conceptual art installation in Houston when he met the historian, Patrick Feaster, while both were on a fellowship at the Smithsonian Institution in 2011. (Dr. Feaster had already discovered a technique to give voice to pictorial patterns that were never intended to be heard, like those on an oscilloscope.) Advertisement Together, the two scoured old medical journals, delving into the history of how 19th-century physicians recorded the pulse and heartbeat of patients and sounding out the information in a way that had never been attempted. Advertisement “We’re really in a certain sense bringing these physiological processes back to life,” said Dr. Feaster, 43. “I’m not sure what we stand to learn from these recordings, but there is a certain sense of access to the pulse from hearing it that I don’t think anybody would get from just looking at a wavy line on a piece of paper.” To Dr. O. H. Frazier, a cardiac surgeon and researcher at the Texas Heart Institute in Houston (and a co-inventor of a beatless artificial heart), the recordings “open up a new arena to be studied.” “The heart sounds were instrumental in heart diagnoses in the old days,” Dr. Frazier said. “That was when medicine was really an art.” Until the mid-19th century, charting a pulse required the doctor to cut into an artery and place a metal device or a glass tube inside. There were no human volunteers, and studies were limited to animals. The first known recording occurred Dec. 12, 1846, when a German physician, Carl Ludwig, took the pulse of a horse. It was Karl von Vierordt, a German physiologist, who invented the elaborate device that charted human pulses noninvasively. He called it the sphygmograph, or “pulse writer,” and in 1854 he used it to trace 45 feeble pulses of Johann Hahn, a 71-year-old patient who suffered from pulmonary emphysema. To give voice to the tracings, Dr. Feaster digitized von Vierordt’s wavy line inscriptions. For the height of the line, which represents an increase or decrease in the amount of blood pressure, he assigned higher and lower sound frequencies — giving the greatest volume to places in the waveform where the pressure changed abruptly, and lower volume to places where the pressure remained relatively constant. Rapid changes in pressure trace the opening and closing of heart valves. Dr. Feaster used a different technique to create audio files of cardiac tracings compiled by Étienne-Jules Marey, a 19th-century physiologist and cinema pioneer. In 1865, Marey used a new type of stethoscope in which two membranes filled with water were pressed against a patient’s chest; instead of attaching them to rubber listening tubes — as Karl Rudolph Koenig, the inventor of that type of stethoscope, had done — he connected the membranes to a recording device. The wavy lines generated by the device were the earliest recorded sounds of a beating heart. Dr. Feaster relied on software normally used to play movie soundtracks — the same method he and his colleagues have used since 2008 to give voice to pictorial tracings of human speech that predate Thomas Edison’s phonograph by 20 years. After digitizing Marey’s recording, which displayed the amplitude of the heartbeat changing over time, Dr. Feaster edited the image into a form that the film soundtrack software could convert into a WAV file. The resurrected sounds “demonstrate that thresholds we once thought were permanent barriers to accessing history are sometimes more porous and malleable,” said Mr. Robleto, the 42-year-old conceptual artist. Advertisement Many of the audios, along with Mr. Robleto’s sculptures and models of the artificial heart, are part of his new installation, “The Boundary of Life Is Quietly Crossed,” on exhibit at the Menil Collection in Houston through Jan. 4. Dr. Frazier, the heart surgeon, said the exhibit reminded him of the French phrase “cri de coeur,” or cry from the heart. In the recordings, heartbeats “are crying out over a century or more,” he said, adding that the work “needs to be in the medical literature.” This fall, after the exhibit opened, Dr. Feaster and Mr. Robleto discovered a photographic chart created in 1869 by a French physician, Charles Ozanam, depicting the pulse of a 100-year-old Frenchman, one Monsieur Léger, a few months before his death. Dr. Feaster converted the tracings into sound, bringing to life the pulse of a man born in the 18th century. Mr. Robleto traces his fascination with the human heartbeat to a recording he first heard when he was 6 or 7. Home sick from school, he heard a news report giving a toll-free number created by NASA to hear the sounds of space. Expecting to hear a communication from an alien civilization, he asked his mother to dial the number — only to be disappointed and bewildered, for all he could hear was static. But he became haunted by the recording, convinced he had missed something important. Only years later did he learn that the noisy passage was actually electrical recordings of the heart and brain waves of a young writer, Ann Druyan. In the late 1970s, Ms. Druyan had worked with the astronomer Carl Sagan to assemble twin time capsules — identical gold-plated copper records, etched with the images and sounds of Earth, that were sent into space on the Voyager 1 and 2 missions in 1977.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The Golden Record, as it is now called, includes the sounds of thunder, birds, whales — and the EEGs and EKGs of Ms. Druyan, then 27, recorded in a darkened room at Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan just days after she realized she had fallen in love with Sagan. The two later married, a union that ended with his death in 1996. Last year, Voyager 1 became the first human-made craft to exit the heliosphere, the magnetic bubble that shields the solar system from cosmic radiation, and enter interstellar space. “No single story, artist or creative act has lingered with me more than Ann Druyan and the Golden Record,” Mr. Robleto said. “It’s so much a part of my mental landscape as if it feels like family at some level.” In September, after years of conversation with the artist, Ms. Druyan came to the installation. “I can’t believe I was listening to your heart when I was a little boy,” he told her. During a public talk at the Menil, Ms. Druyan harked back to the much older heartbeats. “I found it so satisfying, so gratifying,” she said, “to know that there were scientists 150 years ago who were first trying to figure out how to record the sounds we make.” A version of this article appears in print on December 16, 2014, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: The Echoes of Hearts Long Silenced.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »