Advertisement JUNE 5, 2007
 Care For the Earliest Newborns To the Editor: Re: “For the Tiniest Babies, the Closest Thing to a Cocoon” (May 29): Christine Hauser notes that the obvious best place for a premature baby would be the “exquisitely complex environment” of amniotic fluid and that the womb room is the second best place. That is surely true for preemies born just a few weeks early. But technology, no matter how high, cannot offer extremely premature newborns everything they need for full, healthy development. Researchers have not characterized all biochemicals in pregnant women and all genes of the fetus that induce maturation; thus the complex uterine environment cannot be replicated in an intensive care unit. To focus on survivability rates while ignoring the pain-filled, isolated and dependent lives typical for most micro-preemies misleads future parents into believing there’s a technological solution for every insufficiency of physiology. Ruth Levy GuyerBethesda, Md. A Planet and Its Nitrous Gases To the Editor: Re “The Redolence of Spring? Call It Essence of Nitrogen” (Basics, May 29): Nitrogen is indeed one of a handful of elements that take center stage in the dance of life on earth. That makes it all the more disturbing that human activities are upsetting the earth’s natural nitrogen cycle. The consequences range from water pollution and lake eutrophication to increasing concentrations of nitrous oxide. Addressing the nitrogen pollution problem will involve difficult choices and innovative solutions, but we ignore the problem at our own peril. Bill ChameidesNew YorkThe writer is chief scientist of Environmental Defense. Coping with Tremors To the Editor: Re “Finding Some Calm After Living With ‘the Shakes’ ” (Personal Health, May 29): I remember my hands shaking when I was 19, in college. I always thought it was stress, or fatigue, or caffeine. I never imagined there might be a treatment. Finally, at 55, I sought a doctor’s assistance, and with a daily dose of propranolol, my tremors ceased. I urge those who suffer from essential tremors to overcome their fears and ask for help. David TusseyNew York Science Times welcomes letters from readers. Those submitted for publication must include the writer’s name, address and telephone number. E-mail should be sent to scitimes@nytimes.com. Send letters to Science Editor, The New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y. 10036. A version of this letter appears in print on , on Page F4 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »