Advertisement By ANDREW POLLACK and KENNETH CHANGJUNE 23, 2007
 EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE, Calif., June 22 — The space shuttle Atlantis glided to a smooth landing on a dry desert lake bed here Friday, ending a two-week mission to the International Space Station that had turned somewhat dramatic after key computers broke down. “There were a lot of challenges on this mission and they were all surmounted,” the Atlantis commander, Col. Frederick W. Sturckow, said on the runway here after leaving the spacecraft. The landing at 12:49 p.m. Pacific time came after NASA had passed up four chances on Thursday and Friday to land at Kennedy Space Center in Florida because of rain and low clouds in the area. NASA prefers to land at Kennedy, the shuttle’s base, because it costs more than $1.7 million and takes seven to 10 days to return the orbiter to Florida  aboard a specially-equipped Boeing 747. But landing in rain can damage the shuttle’s delicate thermal tiles or even slow the craft down enough to affect its flight path. Advertisement Although the shuttle could have landed Saturday, NASA did not want to stretch the mission to its limit. So on Friday morning, mission managers, uncertain whether the skies in Florida would clear, took the first opportunity to land here in the Mojave Desert northeast of Los Angeles. Advertisement It is the 51st time in 118 missions that a shuttle has landed at Edwards, the last time being in 2005. The spacecraft, containing a crew of seven, passed over San Diego and Los Angeles, emitted its trademark double sonic boom after it reentered the atmosphere, and glided onto the runway under nearly cloudless skies. Atlantis had taken off on June 8 on what was to be an 11-day mission mainly to install a new structural truss and electricity-generating solar panels on the International Space Station. The mission, the 21st to the space station, was extended by two days so that astronaut John D. Olivas could do a spacewalk to staple down a thermal blanket that had come loose during launch. It was then extended another day because of the weather in Florida. Mission managers said the loose thermal blanket had not threatened the orbiter, but the heat of reentry might still have caused enough damage to require lengthy and costly repairs. NASA officials said after the shuttle landed that the repair appeared to have held up for most part during the reentry. The main drama on the mission came just after the solar panels were installed, when Russian computers on the space station started to break down. The computers control the space station’s oxygen generator and the thrusters that maintain its orientation. With the computers out of commission, the docked Atlantis and its thrusters assumed the responsibility for maintaining orientation. That raised the specter that the space station might need to be evacuated if the Russian computers could not be revived before Atlantis left. NASA officials had expressed confidence that the Russians would be able to fix the problem, but the space agency did assemble contingency plans on how to keep an empty space station safe and sound until spare parts for the computers could be delivered.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The crisis abated when several days of troubleshooting tracked the problem to power circuitry. The Russian station crew members installed jumper cables, bypassing the troublesome circuits. NASA officials said in a news briefing Friday that it might take three to five months to determine the root cause of the problem. But they said the space station was operating fine now and that they were developing methods to operate even without those particular computers. Advertisement “We’re stable; we’ve got a good configuration,” William H. Gerstenmaier, associate administrator for space operations, said at the news conference at Kennedy Space Center. The launching of a Russian Progress supply rocket to the station has been moved up to July from August to bring spare parts for computers. During four spacewalks, Atlantis astronauts installed the 17.5-ton truss, partially retracted an earlier solar array and opened the new arrays. The astronauts accomplished almost all of their planned chores and were able to perform several “get-ahead” tasks. One of the Atlantis crew members, Clayton C. Anderson, remained at the space station with two Russian cosmonauts. He replaced Cmdr. Sunita L. Williams, who returned to earth on Atlantis after a six-month stay that set a record for the longest spaceflight by a woman. NASA is planning three more shuttle missions this year, starting with the Endeavour in August. Atlantis is scheduled to fly again in December. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »