Advertisement By ERIC NAGOURNEYJULY 3, 2007
 Over the years, there have been many theories for why people yawn. It has been associated with sleepiness and boredom, and, incorrectly, with low oxygen levels in the blood. “No one knows why we yawn,” says Andrew C. Gallup, a psychology professor at the State University of New York at Albany. Now Dr. Gallup and fellow researchers have a new explanation: yawning, they said, is a way for the body to cool the brain. Writing in the May issue of Evolutionary Psychology, they reported that volunteers yawned more often in situations in which their brains were likely to be warmer. To prove their theory that yawning regulates brain temperature when other systems in the body are not doing enough, the researchers took advantage of the well-established tendency of people to yawn when those around them do — the so-called contagious yawn. Advertisement The volunteers were asked to step into a room by themselves and watch a video showing people behaving neutrally, laughing or yawning. Observers watching through a one-way mirror counted how many times the volunteers yawned. Advertisement Some volunteers were asked to breathe only through their noses as they watched. Later, volunteers were asked to press warm or cold packs on their foreheads.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “The two conditions thought to promote brain cooling (nasal breathing and forehead cooling) practically eliminated contagious yawning,” the researchers wrote. The study may also help explain why yawning spreads from person to person. A cooler brain, Dr. Gallup said, is a clearer brain. So yawning actually appears to be a way to stay more alert. And contagious yawning, he said, may have evolved to help groups remain vigilant against danger. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F6 of the New York edition with the headline: Big Yawn, Cooler Brain? Researchers Say Yes.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »