Advertisement DEC. 25, 2007
 Dot Earth From Andrew C. Revkin’s blog, nytimes.com/dotearth. I recently asked a variety of scientists and others immersed in climate study and policy to give their “stalled elevator” speech.  The scenario: Your passion is pursuing ways to provide energy to a growing world while limiting climate risks. Chance puts you in the same elevator alone with a presidential candidate. What do you say? A3k replies: In reality, I’d say something stupid. Or nothing. Then in the car ride on the way home I’d kick myself for not asking them how they think we’d be powering our economy today if the industrial revolution had started in the year 1200.  TierneyLab From John Tierney’s blog, nytimes.com/tierneylab. Donald Norman, a cognitive scientist at Northwestern who studies why technology drives people crazy, went into his anthropologist mode at The New York Times’s new headquarters. He checked out our gleaming stainless steel bathroom fixtures (one faucet gleams especially bright because, to my knowledge, no one has ever managed to get water out of it). Advertisement He observed one reporter who had learned to wash his hands by waving them constantly in front of the sensor. He conducted interviews in the newsroom and hit pay dirt with my colleague Denise Grady. Advertisement “I have discovered a secret for washing your hands like a civilized person,” she said, and explained her technique. “This calls for an experiment,” Dr. Norman said happily, and we headed back to the men’s room to document the results. Affixing a wet paper towel to the eye of the sensor does indeed allow you to wash your hands in peace.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “Technology is supposed to be our friend,” Dr. Norman said, “yet we have to devise all these tricks to deal with it.” Well From Tara Parker-Pope’s blog, nytimes.com/well. Most people have heard that chocolate is good for you. But now a medical journal is bursting the chocolate bubble. Just in time for the holidays, an editorial in The Lancet notes that there won’t be a “truffle treatment” for heart disease anytime soon. Moreover, the very things that make chocolate good for you — antioxidants called flavanols — also make chocolate taste bitter. Confectionery makers often take them out, stripping the chocolate of its main health-promoting properties. This depressing news comes just a month after Circulation, the medical journal of the American Heart Association, created a stir by reporting that 22 heart-transplant patients given a dose of dark chocolate had measurable improvements in blood flow and vascular function. The darker the chocolate, the higher it’s likely to be in flavanols. But even if your chocolate is loaded with them, it seems it won’t be a wonder drug. Most studies show the heart benefits to be modest. kaleberg replies: Well, if you want to experiment with better living through chocolate, try mixing up a small handful of raisins and chocolate nibs. The latter have not been stripped of their flavanols, and you should be able to get them at any good chocolate store.  A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F8 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »