Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
 KENNETH CHANG
 
AUG. 2, 2010
 Even as they swing in constant, languid motion, orangutans burn fewer calories than a human couch potato. To study this, scientists did not go to the rain forests of Southeast Asia, the native habitat of orangutans, but instead enlisted four orangutans living at the Great Ape Trust, a nonprofit research lab in Des Moines, Iowa. Although in captivity, the four live in a large habitat similar to that of wild orangutans. Since the orangutans possess a rudimentary understanding of spoken commands or requests, the researchers could ask them to drink water that had been modified to contain heavier isotopes of hydrogen and oxygen and then to urinate in cups for analysis. “It’s that easy,” said Herman Pontzer, a professor of biological anthropology at Washington University in St. Louis and lead author of the study of the energetics of orangutans that will be published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. “It’s easier than working with 3-year-olds.” Advertisement Because some of the heavier oxygen is breathed out as carbon dioxide, reflecting the amount of physical exertion, the changing ratio of the hydrogen and oxygen isotopes tells how many calories the orangutans burned. For example, the two female orangutans, Katy and Knobi, each weighing about 120 pounds, burned about 1,600 calories a day, several hundred less than a woman of similar weight who is getting moderate amounts of exercise. Advertisement Dr. Pontzer said the orangutans may have evolved this parsimonious metabolism to avoid starving when the ripe fruits that they eat periodically become scarce in their native rainforests. The evolutionary tradeoff is that orangutans grow slowly and reproduce at a low rate. A version of this article appears in print on August 3, 2010, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Constant Whirl of Motion, but Few Calories Fall Off.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »