Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
SINDYA N. BHANOO

JULY 18, 2011
 Lizards aren’t the simpletons that some might take them for. Biologists from Duke University report that lizards have some of the same creative problem-solving abilities that birds and mammals do. Their findings appear in the current issue of Biology Letters. The researchers, Manuel Leal and Brian Powell, exposed tropical lizards in Puerto Rico known as Anolis evermanni to a blue disc. Beneath the disc was some tasty prey — a freshly killed worm larva. Four of the six lizards tested were able to get to the worm in one of two ways, either by biting the disc or by sticking their snouts underneath it and prying it off. “Most people believed their behavior may be more robotic or not as flexible,” said Dr. Leal, the study’s lead author. But the lizards were creative, he said, using skills “which have no real ecological relevance.” Advertisement Lizards in the wild capture moving prey by running up and down trees, Dr. Leal said. He and Mr. Powell further complicated the experiment by placing a worm under a blue disc with a yellow border, but none under the plain blue disc.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The lizards initially looked under only the blue disc, where they expected the worm to be. But eventually, two clever lizards began looking under the blue and yellow disc, and successfully uncovered worms. Dr. Leal said he hoped the study would lead to more investigations into the cognitive abilities of reptiles. Advertisement “If we only study birds and mammals, we’re only going to learn from those groups,” he said. “This is one more distinct group we need to learn about.” A version of this article appears in print on July 19, 2011, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: To Find Tasty Larvae, Lizards Use Their Brains.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »