Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

JULY 27, 2010
 This Greek-inspired dish makes a hearty one-dish meal, and it’s a great way to include nutrient-dense spinach in your diet. If you use baby spinach, the preparation will go quickly as the beans simmer. 1/2 pound large limas, cooked 2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 2 garlic cloves, minced 2 pounds spinach, stemmed and cleaned thoroughly; or 1 pound baby spinach, rinsed 1/4 cup chopped fresh dill 1 tablespoon snipped chives 2 ounces feta cheese, crumbled (1/2 cup) 1. Cook the beans according to the directions. Remove from the heat, and drain through a colander set over a bowl. Transfer to a lightly oiled baking dish (1 1/2 to 2-quart), and add 1 scant cup of the broth. 2. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Heat a large skillet over high heat, and wilt the spinach, in batches, in the water left on the leaves after washing. Remove to a colander, rinse briefly with cold water, then squeeze out excess water and chop coarsely. Advertisement 3. Heat 1 tablespoon of the olive oil over medium heat in the skillet, and add the garlic. Cook, stirring, until fragrant, 30 seconds to a minute. Add the spinach, dill and chives, and stir together just until the ingredients are combined, less than a minute. Remove from the heat. Season to taste with salt and pepper.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 4. Spread the spinach in an even layer over the beans. Sprinkle the feta over the spinach, and drizzle on the remaining tablespoon of olive oil. Bake 30 minutes until sizzling. Serve hot or warm. Advertisement Yield: Serves four. Advance preparation: The cooked beans will keep for four to five days in the refrigerator. You can prepare the spinach two to three days ahead and refrigerate. You can assemble the gratin several hours before you bake it. Nutritional information per serving: 302 calories; 11 grams fat; 3 grams saturated fat; 13 milligrams cholesterol; 37 grams carbohydrates; 14 grams dietary fiber; 296 milligrams sodium (does not include salt added during preparation); 18 grams protein Martha Rose Shulman can be reached at martha-rose-shulman.com. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »