Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
SINDYA N. BHANOO

AUG. 24, 2011
 The split between placental mammals and marsupials may have occurred 35 million years earlier than previously thought, according to a new study.  Zhe-Xi Luo, a paleontologist at the Carnegie Museum of Natural History in Pittsburgh, and colleagues have discovered a 160-million-year-old fossil in China that is the earliest known ancestor of today’s placental mammals, which include humans.  He and his colleagues report their findings of the fossil, Juramaia sinensis, in the current issue of the journal Nature.  Until now, the oldest known ancestor to placentals was a small mammal that dates back about 125 million years, to the Cretaceous period.  The new fossil has a well-preserved skull with teeth intact. Based on the teeth, the researchers determined that the mammal was more closely related to modern placentals than to modern marsupials. Advertisement About 90 percent of modern mammals are placentals. They provide nutrients to their unborn young through a placenta that allows for extensive growth and development. Marsupials, by contrast, generally have a shorter gestation period and give birth to relatively undeveloped young. Advertisement The newly identified mammal was small, weighing less than a chipmunk. Based on its claws, it appears to have been an active climber. “This was a skinny little animal, eating insects,” said Dr. Luo. “We imagine it was active in the night and capable of going up and down trees.” Its discovery helps reconcile fossil evidence and molecular analysis. Modern molecular studies, which use DNA to estimate dates of evolution, also put the emergence of placentals at about 160 million years ago. “This hard rock evidence coincides and matches with the molecular evidence and gives us independent corroboration between fossils and DNA,” Dr. Luo said. A version of this article appears in print on August 30, 2011, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: A Small Mammal Fossil Tells a Jurassic Tale.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »