Advertisement By ANAHAD O’CONNORJULY 12, 2010
 THE FACTS The battle against mosquitoes is often fought with chemical repellents. DEET, the most popular choice, is highly effective, but it can be toxic, smelly and irritating. For those who prefer a chemical-free repellant, a plain and simple house fan just might do the trick. Studies have found that wind is an  effective method against mosquitoes and other airborne pests. The reason seems obvious: it prevents them from circling and landing on you, like a windstorm keeping a plane from  its descent. But that is not entirely the case. A fan  dilutes and disperses the carbon dioxide you exhale. Carbon dioxide is one of the major chemicals that attract mosquitoes.  The wind from a fan also cools you off. Sweat, lactic acid and body heat  attract mosquitoes — factors that a fan can help minimize. In one study in 2003, entomologists at Michigan State University used traps set up in a wetland by the C.D.C. to attract mosquitoes. Releasing carbon dioxide attracted more pests to the trap, and the more carbon dioxide, the more mosquitoes. Advertisement Using fan-generated wind of various speeds helped keep them away. But there was no link between wind “velocity” and “mosquito body mass.” “We recommend that fan-generated wind should be pursued as a practical means of protecting humans or pets from mosquitoes in the backyard setting,” they wrote.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. For an indoor setting, a fan on medium or high speed should do the job. THE BOTTOM LINE Using a fan can ward off mosquitoes. Advertisement ANAHAD O’CONNOR scitimes@nytimes.com A version of this article appears in print on July 13, 2010, on Page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: THE CLAIM: To repel mosquitoes, use a house fan.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »