Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
 HENRY FOUNTAIN
 
DEC. 22, 2008
 In the Congo River in Africa, there is a species of fish for which choosing a mate really depends on whether there’s a certain spark. Females of the species Campylomormyrus compressirostris, a fish that produces a weak electrical discharge from an organ near its tail, can distinguish males of their own species by their electrical signature, scientists at the University of Potsdam in Germany report in Biology Letters. The females’ ability may effectively serve as a reproductive barrier that is important in speciation, the divergence of new species from existing ones. C. compressirostris and similar species use their electrical discharge for navigation (they can sense when the electrical field they create is altered by the presence of an object) and for communication. Philine G. D. Feulner, now at the University of Sheffield in England, and colleagues tested whether that communication extended to choosing a mate. They found that females chose males of their species consistently over those of a closely related species that produce an electrical signal with different phase and other characteristics. “The females really prefer males that have the same signal as themselves,” Dr. Feulner said. The finding may help explain why there are so many closely related species in the Congo River, she added. For two species to diverge while living in  proximity, there must be a barrier to mating between them. That barrier often involves mate choice, based on sensory cues like how potential mates look, smell or sound. This species appears to use the electrical signal as another kind of cue, Dr. Feulner said. Speciation like this also requires some kind of ecological differentiation between the diverging species. By affecting how the fish navigates for foraging, the electrical signal may serve that role as well, Dr. Feulner said. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: African Fish Need A Little Electricity For Love to Bloom.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »