Advertisement By DANA JENNINGSDEC. 15, 2008
 I have prostate cancer, but it sometimes seems as if I’ve been in a terrible car crash: I’ve smashed through the windshield, I’m bleeding in the road, and a cop steps over my body and says, “Hey, did you know that there were 41,000 traffic deaths last year?” A passer-by notes that “modern medicine is doing wonderful things with organ transplants” while another mutters, “Well, at least no one was killed.” This is the way prostate cancer often feels, as if my world had turned into a Philip K. Dick dystopia in which the cold intent of many people — especially my insurer and the other bureaucrats who populate the health-care-industrial-complex — was to translate me into an abstraction, to deny my damaged and tiresome flesh-and-bloodness. My insurer did not want to hear that my radical open prostatectomy last July would demand a higher level of care because previous abdominal surgery had created a tortuous internal topography of scar tissue and adhesions. My insurer, despite the insight and strong protests of my doctors, kept insisting that any knife would do. Was Sweeney Todd available? And some doctors I spoke with before my surgery — not my current team at the Cancer Institute of New Jersey — seemed to regard me as a rare pelt, a fascinating wrinkle in their volume business in prostates. Others, looking at me without really looking at me, defaulted to the reassuring role of professional pilot, treating the potential realities of impotence and incontinence as businesslike asides: “We’ll be cruising at 30,000 feet today ... you might wear man-pads for years ... please note Niagara Falls as we fly over ... and you might not ever have sex again.” Advertisement Nearly 200,000 cases of prostate cancer are diagnosed each year, and nearly 30,000 men die. This is serious, life-changing stuff: There’s blood in your urine, a catheter snaked up your penis, scars stitch your gut, and you might be impotent and incontinent for a few months, a couple of years, or the rest of your life. Advertisement Prostate cancer — any cancer — is a crucible in which we patients are somehow, we hope, reborn. It’s a rite of passage as resonant as any other — a graduation, a baptism, a wedding — and should be treated that way. Some days, maybe because I’m still undergoing treatment, I don’t want to hear about another stat, another study, another harebrained cure. How about a smile, a kind word and a hug? Prostate cancer is an abstraction in the same way that global warming was an abstraction, until the world saw the photograph of that forlorn polar bear trapped on an ice floe. It should be the goal of each one of my brothers-in-disease to become that bear. But it’s difficult. The bewilderment, shame and fear often stun men into a passive and depressed silence. Nurses and doctors say that many men barely speak during treatment and office visits, letting their wives, partners or children do the talking. It’s as if the dark biological knowledge they are bearing is too overwhelming for words. They are quiet waiting-room wraiths, perfecting their thousand-yard stares. And if they speak, it’s in murmurs, as if cancer required whispers. They don’t understand that to keep from being reduced to a cipher, a mere “case,” you need to be conscious and verbal.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. As a patient, when you don’t speak, when you try to take on the cool and detached manner of a doctor, all you become is “meat,” quiet meat. And no one scratches you behind the ears and says, “Good boy” for being mute. It’s hard to avoid that sense of meat-ness. Each office visit reduces you right away to your weight/temp/B.P. And because I had surgery at a teaching hospital, I woke up each morning to the rustle and jostle of a gang of residents. Young crows with bright and clever eyes, they flapped into my room — almost like Keystone Kops in white coats — to take a poke at the old crow. I don’t want to be too tough on them, because they’re only kids, and they have so much to learn in such a short time. But to most of them, I suspect, I was just a case, one of each morning’s many medical exhibits. I preferred the humane, morphine-woozy middle-of-the-night conversations with the aides who took care of me. The guy who talked about superhero movies after checking out the Iron Man figurine my sons had given me. And the guy who, as he gently drained my ileostomy pouch — not related to my cancer — told me how he’d had to wear a temporary pouch after he’d been shot when he was young and stupid. Advertisement It made me smile that the aides and nurses called my two round, plastic drains “grenades.” And it was one of my grenades that made one resident understand that I was more than just another “prostate cancer post-op.” I can’t recall her name — most residents rushed through their names the same way they rushed through the halls — and she seemed new. She’d been told to remove my drain, my last grenade. The moment she touched it I knew that both of us were in deep trouble. She needed to grab it firmly, then tug. Instead, she held it tentatively, as if it were a surly garter snake. Instead of pulling, she waggled it inside my body. It hurt, I believe, like being tortured: I got dizzy, nearly threw up and, yes, James Brown, I broke out in a cold sweat. When I told her I was going to pass out, she sheepishly went and got help. But I know she won’t forget me. I became a real person in those cold-sweat moments, stopped being an abstraction. I became her polar bear on the ice floe. Dana Jennings is an editor at The New York Times and the author, most recently, of “Sing Me Back Home: Love, Death and Country Music.” A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: Person, Patient, Statistic.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »