Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

DEC. 19, 2008
 This is one of many North African spicy cooked vegetable purees typically served as a starter. The authentic dish is seasoned with harissa, the spicy hot pepper paste used widely in Tunisia and Algeria. If you can find harissa easily, substitute 1 teaspoon or more to taste for the cayenne. You can serve this as an hors d'oeuvre, side dish or salad. 2 pounds winter squash, such as kabocha or butternut 2 tablespoons plus 1 teaspoon fresh lemon or lime juice 2 tablespoons plus 1 teaspoon extra virgin olive oil 1 to 2 garlic cloves (to taste), peeled, halved, green shoots removed 1/2 teaspoon salt (more to taste) 1 teaspoon freshly ground caraway seeds 3/4 teaspoon freshly ground coriander seeds Advertisement 1/8 to 1/4 teaspoon cayenne, to taste Small Romaine lettuce leaves and imported black olives for garnish  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 1. Preheat the oven to 425ºF. Cover a baking sheet with foil and brush lightly with olive oil. Cut the squash in half, scoop out the seeds and stringy membranes, brush the cut sides with olive oil and lay cut side down  on the foil-covered baking sheet. Bake 40 minutes, or until soft enough to pierce easily with a knife. Remove from the heat and allow to cool, then peel and mash with a fork, or puree in a food processor fitted with the steel blade. Stir in 2 tablespoons of the lemon or lime juice and 2 tablespoons of the olive oil. 2. In a mortar and pestle, mash the garlic to a paste with the salt, and stir into the puree, along with the spices. Taste and adjust salt. Mound on a platter or in a wide bowl. Run a fork down the sides. Mix together the remaining lemon juice and olive oil and drizzle over the puree. Decorate with olives and serve with small lettuce leaves for scooping, and warm flat bread. Advertisement Yield: Makes about 2 cups, serving 8 to 10 as an hors d'oeuvre Advance preparation: This is best freshly made. It keeps for about 3 days in the refrigerator, though it becomes more pungent. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »