Advertisement By DANA SCARTONDEC. 15, 2008
 The pinkie, the humble fifth finger, has long been viewed as a decorative accessory, something to extend daintily from a wine glass. So what would you lose if you didn’t  have one? “You’d lose 50 percent of your hand strength, easily,” said Laurie Rogers, an occupational therapist who is a certified hand therapist at National Rehabilitation Hospital in Washington. She explained that while the  index and middle fingers function, with the thumb, in pinching and grabbing — zipping zippers, buttoning buttons —  the pinkie teams up with the ring finger to provide power. I learned this for myself last  April, when I tripped while jogging and my 132-pound frame crashed onto the bone at the base of my right pinkie, a bone the width of a pencil. It snapped at the metacarpophalangeal, or MCP, joint, where the finger links with the hand. Five months later, my finger would not bend unassisted. I could not make a fist, swing a tennis racket with control, or securely grasp a dumbbell or the handle of a vacuum cleaner. Because the injury occurred in my dominant hand, writing was cumbersome. Advertisement My situation was hardly unique. Fractures of the small finger and its metacarpal — the bone that extends from the base of the finger into the hand — occur about twice as often as fractures to any other unit of finger and metacarpal, including the thumb. There is little reliable data tracking finger injuries in the United States; the statistics are from a 2003 study in The Journal of Hand Surgery (British and European Volume) that analyzed a year’s worth of data from an Amsterdam emergency room. Advertisement This  high incidence of fractures may be attributable to the pinkie’s status, along with the index finger, as a “border digit,” or a bookend to the middle and ring fingers, said Dr. Steven Z. Glickel, director of the C. V. Starr Hand Surgery Center at St. Luke’s-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan and president of the American Society for Surgery of the Hand. And while the index finger “is at least somewhat protected by being adjacent to the thumb,” he went on, “the little finger has virtually no protection.” Bones of the little finger — the distal, middle and proximal phalanges — are typically broken by falls or by the finger’s being struck by something,  like a basketball. Though stiffness and swelling  may result, many people do not realize the finger is broken, so they do not seek treatment. “People think if they’re not in pain and they can move their finger, it’s not broken,” said Dr. Scott G. Edwards, chief of hand and elbow surgery at Georgetown University Hospital. “That’s simply not true.” Repairs to a broken small finger can involve pins, screws and plates. Eight days after my fall, two pins were inserted through the MCP joint. The procedure, performed by Dr. Edwards as outpatient surgery, reattached my proximal phalanx and straightened my middle knuckle, known as the proximal interphalangeal, or PIP, joint. A cast was applied from fingertips to elbow. Twelve days later, the cast was removed and rehabilitation began. I had never heard of finger therapy, but it exists — and it is painful. “Hand therapists are the ones who make us look good,” said Dr. Leon S. Benson, chief of hand surgery at Evanston Northwestern Healthcare in Illinois. “I’m in the office acting happy and upbeat, then I say to the patient, ‘Now you will go down and see Mary Beth, the therapist, who will hurt you.’ ”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Treatments include heat, ultrasound, neuromuscular stimulation, splinting and manual exercise. Getting to rehab quickly — within days or weeks of surgery — is of paramount importance; otherwise, scar tissue can proliferate and stiffness can worsen. Advertisement I got to therapy quickly but was assigned a therapist who was too timid to manipulate my finger. By the time I located a competent replacement, my finger was rigid, and scarring appeared to be well under way. Scar tissue, a fibrous connective tissue that forms at the wound, is more prominent and problematic in fingers because there is virtually no muscle, and tendons sit directly on the bone. Accumulating scar tissue in the smallest finger is akin to “getting glue inside a watch,” Dr. Benson said. “It binds everything down.” Swelling can impede recovery, as well. “It’s like taking a big sausage and trying to bend it,” Dr. Edwards said. An M.R.I. scan of my finger, taken after the pins were removed, confirmed that scar tissue had immobilized the flexor tendons, which are palm-side tendons that enable fingers to fold into a fist. Besides not receiving effective therapy soon enough, genetics may have contributed, since some people form scar tissue more easily than others. Either way, my finger was stuck. In October, I underwent flexor tenolysis, during which Dr. Edwards meticulously freed  the tendons. The day after surgery, I started therapy with Mrs. Rogers. Earlier this month, I completed my treatment; my finger now bends with ease and my hand strength has returned. And  the humble pinkie has earned my respect. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D5 of the National edition with the headline: Get Along Without a Pinkie? It’s Tougher Than You Might Think.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »