Advertisement By RONI CARYN RABINAPRIL 6, 2009
 Canadian Convicted of Murder for Infecting Women With H.I.V. A Canadian man who knew he was H.I.V.-positive has been found guilty of murder and sexual assault for not warning women he was infected before having unprotected sex, Agence France-Presse reported. Johnson Aziga, 52, is the first person in Canada to be convicted of murder for spreading the virus. Seven of his partners became infected, and two died of AIDS-related cancers. Several others were exposed but not infected. Doctor Suspended Following Hepatitis B Outbreak State regulators in New Jersey have temporarily suspended the medical license of a Toms River doctor linked to a hepatitis B outbreak after five cancer patients tested positive for the disease, The Associated Press reported. Thousands of Dr. Parvez Dara's patients must be tested for hepatitis B; the doctor has a history of health code violations dating back to 2002. Suffolk County Bans B.P.A. in Baby Products Long Island's Suffolk County has become the first place to ban the controversial chemical bisphenol-A, or B.P.A., from baby bottles and sippy cups, Newsday reported. Several states are considering bans, and Canada has announced it would be restricting the chemical's use. Dangerous Chemical Found in Baby Formula The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has found traces of perchlorate, a chemical used in rocket fuel, in baby formula powder at levels that could be dangerous for adults if mixed with water that's also contaminated, The Associated Press reported. The C.D.C. study was published last month but received little notice until an environmental advocacy organization drew attention to it. Advocates Call for Study of Egg Donors Some advocates for women's health are calling for follow-up of egg donors to assess long-term health effects, Time magazine reported. Because of the poor economy, fertility clinics and egg-donation agencies are reporting a surge in applications from potential egg donors, yet no studies have tracked donors over time to see if they develop health problems. The mother of one donor who died of colon cancer at age 31 says egg donors "are treated like vendors, not as patients." We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »