Advertisement By NICHOLAS BAKALARAPRIL 20, 2009
 More boys than girls are born all over the world, but a new study has found that the closer people live to the equator, the smaller the difference becomes. No one knows why. The skewed sex ratio at birth has been known for more than a hundred years, and researchers have found a large variety of social, economic and biological factors  that correlate with it — war, economic stress, age, diet, selective abortion or infanticide and more. Teasing out the contribution of any single cultural or political variable has proved an almost infinitely complicated exercise. But latitude is a natural phenomenon, unaffected by cultural or economic factors. To look at its effect,  Kristen J. Navara of the University of Georgia used the latitude of the capital city in 202 countries, as well as  10 years of data on sex ratio at birth and annual variations in day length and temperature. To estimate socioeconomic status for each country, she used statistics on unemployment and gross national product. She also calculated a political instability index using an analysis of state failure and conflict published by the Fund for Peace, a research organization that combines 12 social, economic and political indicators to estimate the relative stability of the world’s nations. Advertisement Then Dr. Navara  performed a statistical analysis to figure out which variables affect sex ratio. The report appeared online April 1 in Biology Letters. Advertisement The number of boys born was not related to socioeconomic and political factors, but there was a significant correlation between sex ratios skewed in favor of boys  and latitude and the climate variables that go with it. African countries produced the lowest sex ratios — 50.7 percent boys — and European and Asian countries had the highest with 51.4 percent. The effect of latitude, Dr. Navara found, persisted across wide variations in lifestyle and socioeconomic status.  There were large differences in sex ratio between tropical regions within 23 degrees of the equator and the temperate regions 23 to 50 degrees north or south, but no difference between the temperate regions and the subarctic north of 50 degrees. The population of people living south of 50 degrees was too small to be included in the analysis. The correlation with latitude was unchanged even after excluding data from Asian and African countries that might have been skewed by abortion or the killing  of baby girls. So sex selection by parents before or at birth does not explain the correlation.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. One expert not involved in the study questioned the validity of Dr. Navara’s statistical technique. “There is no question that the vast majority of people in the tropics live in relatively poor and stressful societies,” said Ralph Catalano, a professor of public health at the University of California,  Berkeley. “If you control for the stresses of poverty, who have you got left that the test turns on?” Dr. Navara defended her analysis. “Statistical analyses involving human populations are always tricky,” she said, “but the analyses used here are robust and did not eliminate any variation that we would see in these populations.” There are some possible explanations, but none entirely satisfactory. It could be that there is some survival value in producing more girls in warmer regions, but it is unclear what this might be. There may be genetic or racial differences that could explain it, but the correlation persists over so many varied populations that this seems unlikely. Hamsters, mice and meadow voles also produce more male offspring during shorter days or colder weather, but the reasons in these animals are just as mysterious as they are in humans. No one even knows whether human sex ratios are skewed before or after conception. Could the quality of sperm at different temperatures cause the variation at the moment of conception? Or is there some event during gestation at warmer temperatures that causes more male fetuses, or fewer female, to spontaneously abort? “There’s a possibility that humans might be responding to factors they were programmed to respond to a long time ago — not cultural or socioeconomic, but climate and things like latitude,” Dr. Navara said. “What’s interesting is that we may be seeing something that attests to our animal ancestry.” A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D5 of the National edition with the headline: Sex Ratio Seen to Vary By Latitude.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »