Advertisement By JOHN NOBLE WILFORDDEC. 21, 2009
 Archaeology is not only a search for the possessions, skills and beliefs of ancient cultures. It is also about living spaces. Recent excavations in Israel appear to show that Stone Age ancestors began at a surprisingly early stage to organize their open-air living spaces into separate clusters for different activities. One area was primarily for preparing and eating food and another, more than 25 feet away, for most of their manufacturing of stone tools. Archaeologists who reported the findings last week in the journal Science said that having the discrete areas for different activities indicated “a formalized conceptualization of a living space, often considered to reflect sophisticated cognition.” And the surprise, they said, was to find the evidence for it at an encampment that was occupied as early as 790,000 years ago. Such living and working patterns were previously thought to be associated only with modern Homo sapiens and thus a behavior that emerged in the last 200,000 years. Advertisement In the journal report, Nira Alperson-Afil and her colleagues noted, “Modern use of space requires social organization and communication between group members, and is thought to involve kinship, gender, status and skill.” Advertisement Dr. Alperson-Afil, an archaeologist at Hebrew University in Jerusalem, and researchers from Germany, Israel and the United States analyzed the remains from Gesher Benot Ya’aqov, in the northern Jordan River Valley, where human ancestors had lived on the shore of an ancient lake. Superimposed levels of artifacts indicated the site was occupied over a period of 100,000 years. Excavations directed by Naama Goren-Inbar, also of Hebrew University, had already exposed evidence, reported a year ago, that occupants of the site had the ability to make and control fire. If correct, this is the first definitive example of fire-making mastery. “This is an extraordinary site,” said Alison S. Brooks, an anthropology professor at George Washington University, who was not involved in the research. “There are very, very few such sites from that time in Africa, the Middle East or anywhere.” Dr. Brooks said that evidence for hearths itself “implies some kind of spatial organization at the site,” but she cautioned that archaeologists would need to study the findings  before commenting on the reported interpretations.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The identity of the occupants of Gesher Benot Ya’aqov is unknown; none of their skeletal remains have been found there. Scientists said they could have been Homo erectus, a species that presumably left Africa more than a million years earlier, or a more recent intermediate species in the human family. The first known evidence of stone tools is associated with hominids living 2.6 million years ago in what is now Ethiopia. Dr. Alperson-Afil’s team reported that the occupants “skillfully produced stone tools, systematically butchered and exploited animals, gathered plant food and controlled fire.” Burned flint, wood and other organic material showed the presence of fires in hearths at specific places. Two co-authors, Dr. Goren-Inbar and Gonen Sharon, explained by e-mail that if these had been the result of natural fires, “we would expect their distribution to be similar to the general distribution of stone artifacts and other materials, and not clustered as it is.” In the northwestern part of the site, archaeologists found a concentration of debris — pieces of flint, chopping and scraping stone tools used in food preparation, bits of crab shell and fish bones, and various seeds, nuts, grains and wood fragments. Burned material suggested there had been a hearth there. Advertisement Although abundant flint knapping took place in this area, presumably related to fire-making, most of the burned flint pieces were collected in the southeastern site, where the archaeologists said there was definitive evidence of a hearth. The density of basalt and limestone artifacts showed that this was the tool-making center. Between the two activity centers, the researchers said, there appeared to be only a scattering of artifacts, nothing to suggest how the area was used. Dr. Goren-Inbar and Dr. Sharon said, “The fact that we recognized activity zones and defined some of the activities that took place there is a breakthrough by itself.” A version of this article appears in print on December 22, 2009, on Page D3 of the National edition with the headline: Excavation Sites Show Distinct Living Areas Early in Stone Age.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »