Advertisement By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMARCH 2, 2009
 NEW DELHI (AP) — More than 100,000 young women were killed in fires in India in a single year, and many of those deaths were tied to domestic abuse, according to a study published Monday. Young Indian women are more than three times as likely as young men to be killed by fire, according to an article published on the Web site of The Lancet, a British medical journal. The victims were mainly 15 to 34 years old. Domestic abuse is a serious problem in India. Often, in disputes over dowries, women are doused with gasoline and set ablaze, and their deaths are reported as kitchen accidents. In the first study of its kind, using the most recent data available, American researchers analyzed death registrations, official questionnaires in rural areas and census figures to arrive at an estimate of 163,000 fire-related deaths in 2001, or 2 percent of all deaths — six times the number reported by the police. More than 106,000 of those, or 65 percent, were of women. Advertisement Women’s rights activists have long accused the government of not doing enough to fight the problem. Indira Jaising, director of the Women’s Rights Initiative of the Lawyers Collective in New Delhi, said the authorities paid the issue nothing more than lip service.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “They say that it’s a crime and it’s shameful, but it’s not enough to say that,” Ms. Jaising said, adding that the authorities must intervene earlier in dowry disputes and domestic abuse cases. “Once the death takes place they are willing to investigate, but by then it’s too late,” she said. “When women go to them with complaints when they’re alive, those complaints should be taken seriously.” Advertisement Officials at the Ministry of Women and Child Development did not respond to requests for comment. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D9 of the New York edition with the headline: Fires Are Big Killer of Indian Women.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »