Advertisement By JANE E. BRODYDEC. 21, 2009
 Marlo Prescott calls her daughter, Alexis,  “our miracle baby.” Born after just 25 weeks in the womb weighing only 13.5 ounces, Alexis is described by her mother as “a very sweet, very kind, ambitious, artistically talented and academically gifted” 11-year-old who has already written and illustrated three books. She is slender and, unlike most children born so early and so small, she is tall for her age. Alexis was born on Jan. 22, 1998, at Inova Fairfax Hospital for Children in Falls Church, Va., where she spent the first five months of her life, coming home at last on May 19 at four and a half pounds. She is one of a growing number of extremely preterm, extremely tiny babies who now survive and even thrive at this and other hospitals, thanks to expert, highly coordinated prenatal and postnatal care. The problem of prematurity has remained stubbornly resistant to change, even increasing in recent years as assisted reproductive techniques have resulted in pregnancies with two or more babies at a time. But there has been no significant increase in extreme prematurity, which can result from a variety of factors — in Alexis’s case, a leakage of amniotic fluid that threatened to rupture her mother’s liver. Advertisement A Host of Problems Of course, not all babies as small as Alexis make it and do as well as she has. Her neonatologist, Dr. Robin Baker, explained in an interview that gestation can make a bigger difference than birth weight. At 25 weeks, Dr. Baker said, Alexis had a much better chance than those born on the cusp of viability, 23 or 24 weeks. Advertisement Unlike Alexis, who was spared the most common hazards of microprematurity, as neonatologists describe babies weighing less than 500 grams (1.1 pounds), many of these tiny survivors face a lifetime of cognitive, developmental and physical deficits. Some physicians question whether it is always wise to try to keep them alive. In 2004, for example, the Vermont Oxford Network, a consortium of about 500 hospitals with neonatal intensive care units, reported the results of 4,172 births of infants who weighed 401 to 500 grams. Only 17 percent — 690 babies — survived to be discharged from the neonatal intensive care unit. Most had multiple problems common to extreme prematurity, among them a hole between heart chambers, retinopathy and chronic lung disease. Most follow-up studies of such tiny survivors have found high rates of poor growth and development, multiple medical problems, including cerebral palsy, and cognitive deficits, including mental retardation. Serious risks remain even for somewhat bigger babies born weighing 500 to 1,000 grams (2.2 pounds), the cutoff for extremely low birth weight. The likelihood that surviving babies will experience developmental lags is especially high among those born to poorly educated and financially challenged parents. Even in these circumstances, however, babies of extremely low birth weight are now doing better than ever. At the MacDonald Women’s Hospital and the Rainbow Babies’ and Children’s Hospital in Cleveland, which serve primarily a poor population, researchers have been studying the survival and neurological development of extremely small babies for several decades. From the 1980s to the early 2000s, major increases occurred in the percentage of surviving babies (to 71 percent, from 49 percent) and babies who survived without neurological impairment (to 71 percent of survivors, from 65 percent) when re-examined at the corrected age of 20 months. Survival at Inova Fairfax, which serves mostly well-educated and middle-class families, is now close to 90 percent. The hospital prides itself in the kind of care its tiny babies get from what Dr. Baker called “a very well-orchestrated, consistent, methodical approach, like a dance.” Care starts prenatally, he said, with everything possible done to delay a baby’s premature birth. Advertisement Once a tiny baby is born, Dr. Baker said, “senior people lead the show, each baby has its own board-certified neonatologist, and the nurses all know what to do. “The focus is on the total infant,” he continued. “Every day each baby is looked at system by system. Every morning and every night, we check with one another and discuss what each baby may need.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Especially close attention is paid the baby’s blood pressure and coagulation, keeping both as normal as possible to reduce the risk of bleeding into the brain, which can cause lasting neurological damage. ‘Million-Dollar Babies’ Four years ago, the hospital hired Ida Sue Baron, an independent clinical neuropsychologist, to evaluate the long-term results of their efforts at saving babies born weighing less than 2.2 pounds. Dr. Baron has so far extensively tested more than 100 of the 6-year-olds and compared them with a similar number of normal children born full-term. This year, in the journal Early Human Development, Dr. Baron and colleagues reported finding {ldquo}age-appropriate neurocognitive and behavioral function{rdquo}  in a group of school-age children whose birth weight had left them “at high risk for impairment.” The team was surprised to find comparable test results among those born before or after 26 weeks’ gestation and those born at less or more than 750 grams (1.65 pounds). “The children are not perfect,” Dr. Baron said in an interview. “They’re more vulnerable to problems with attention, planning and working memory, even among those with average I.Q.’s. But they’re doing much better than predicted. “We’ve begun to look at them again at age 9 and are finding no deterioration as they get into higher grades. Their academic skills have not declined and their behavioral functions have remained stable.” Dr. Michele Walsh, a neonatologist at the children’s hospital in Cleveland, said in an interview that the Vermont network maintained “an active quality-improvement program.” Dr. Walsh listed four changes that could account for recent improvement: more selective use of medications, especially corticosteroids that are intended to protect the babies’ lung function but that can damage the brain when overused; doing everything possible to avoid infection; using better methods of ventilation to reduce lung damage; and improved nutrition. Though it was long feared that feeding these tiny newborns could result in a fatal intestinal infection, now the babies are getting mother’s milk and much more protein intravenously to support their brain development. Advertisement Although Dr. Walsh acknowledged that it was expensive to maintain these “million-dollar babies” for many months in neonatal intensive care unit, “spread over a normal healthy lifespan, it’s very cost-effective: there’s a return on the investment when they get out into the work force and pay taxes.” A version of this article appears in print on December 22, 2009, on Page D7 of the New York edition with the headline: Risks, as Well as Hope, for Very Tiny Infants.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »