Advertisement By ELIZABETH SVOBODAMAY 11, 2009
 On June 7, 2005, Julie Turner of Sheffield, England, told her partner, Darren Akers, that she was heading out to do some shopping. But as the clock inched toward midnight and Ms. Turner, 40,   failed to return, Mr. Akers began to panic. Two days later, on June 9, he received a cryptic text message: “Stopping at jills, back later need to sort my head out.” He was baffled — he didn’t know anyone named Jill, and Julie didn’t usually send text messages. Soon afterward, Mr. Akers received another message: “Tell kids not to worry. sorting my life out. be in touch to get some things.” He  knew Julie was always careful to let her children know where she would be, and he couldn’t shake a feeling that something was off about the text messages. After Ms. Turner disappeared, police officers visited Howard Simmerson, who had been having an affair with Ms. Turner.  They took Mr. Simmerson’s cellphones and a five-page letter he had written about his desire to kill himself and Ms. Turner. John Olsson, the director of the Forensic Linguistics Institute, based in Wales, was struck by linguistic similarities between the letter, the text messages that Julie had supposedly sent, and taped excerpts from Mr. Simmerson’s interview with the police. In the interview, for instance, Mr. Simmerson used the phrases “sorted her life out” and “head sorted out.” “I jumped out of my skin, because this was exactly the same phrasing as the mobile phone texts,” Mr. Olsson said. “When you find something so similar, you need to ask yourself, ‘How rare is this thing you’re looking at?’ ” By analyzing the contents of a 100-million-word corpus (sample of language), Mr. Olsson determined that both phrases were extremely rare in normal use — the phrase “sort my life out,” for instance, appeared only once in the 100-million-word sample. Based on this evidence, Mr. Olsson told the  police that there was an extremely high probability that Mr. Simmerson was the author of the text messages. “Once the police put to him that the similarities were so strong, he said, ‘I was there, I sent those texts,’ ” Mr. Olsson said. The police eventually found Julie Turner’s body in an oil barrel that had once sat in the back of Mr. Simmerson’s Ford Ranger. On Nov. 8, 2005, a judge convicted Mr. Simmerson of  murder and sentenced him to life in prison. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: Speech Patterns In Messages Betray a Killer.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »