Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
 HENRY FOUNTAIN
 
JUNE 1, 2009
 The animals of the Galapágos have been studied extensively since the days of Darwin and his finches. But there’s been less scrutiny of some of the archipelago’s insects, including  mosquitoes. Now, a paper in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, by scientists from the University of Leeds, the Zoological Society of London and Galapágos National Park, sheds light on  the black salt marsh mosquito, Aedes taeniorhynchus. Since it is the only mosquito found throughout the archipelago, the findings raise concerns about the impact of mosquito-borne diseases. Arnaud Bataille and colleagues conducted a genetic analysis that showed that the mosquito, one of three species found in the Galapágos, was not introduced recently by humans but instead arrived  about 200,000 years ago. Since then the insect has evolved so much it is practically a distinct species from the mainland variety. For one thing, the insect has adapted to be able to feast on the blood of lizards, tortoises and other reptiles and not solely on mammals, as it does on the mainland. The mosquito also has a wider range than on the mainland. All of that could spell trouble, the researchers say, if West Nile virus or a similar pathogen were to reach the island. A. taeniorhynchus would appear to be poised to rapidly spread such a virus, with potentially devastating consequences. The researchers suggest that all planes and boats arriving in the Galapágos be treated with pesticides. A report in the Observatory column on Tuesday about a study of the black salt marsh mosquito in the Galapágos misspelled the species name of the mosquito. It is Aedes taeniorhynchus, not taerniorhynchus.  A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Evolving Mosquitoes.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »