Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

MAY 3, 2010
 Smoothies are a wonderful way to enjoy fruits of all kinds  —  not just the bananas and berries we’re used to throwing in a blender but also more unusual choices, like nutrient-dense kiwis. I like a smoothie that has more to it than fresh fruit, though, so lately I’ve been experimenting with adding oatmeal, nuts or nut butters and seeds. I think you’ll like the results. I’ve also been looking at old-fashioned Southern California recipes for “date shakes,” and I’ve come up with a few date-sweetened drinks that have seen me through many a morning workout at the pool. Of course, smoothies aren’t just for fruit. When I began work on this week’s recipes, I had a dim memory of a thick shake I used to make many years ago with carrots. I found the recipe in an old New York Times natural foods cookbook and tweaked it a bit. Now I remember why I liked it so much: it’s nice to have a smoothie you can chew on. Oatmeal Spice Smoothie Oatmeal is a great addition to a smoothie — it’s a thickener with lots of fiber and nutrients. With the pinch of turmeric in this recipe comes curcumin, a compound that has been used for centuries in Ayurvedic and Chinese medicine for its anti-inflammatory properties. Advertisement 1/4 cup rolled oats 1/4 cup water 1/2 cup milk, almond milk or rice drink 1/4 to 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon, to taste Advertisement Pinch of turmeric 1/2 cup unsweetened applesauce 1/2 apple, cored and diced 1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 1 teaspoon maple syrup A few drops of lemon juice 1 fresh date, pitted (optional) 1. Combine the oats and water in a 2-cup Pyrex measuring cup or a 3- to 4-cup microwave-safe bowl. Microwave for two minutes. 2. Combine the microwaved oats and the remaining ingredients, along with a few ice cubes, in a blender, and blend at high speed. Serve at once. Yield: One serving. Advance preparation: Best if served right away. Nutrition per serving: 229 calories; 2 grams fat; 0 grams saturated fat; 2 milligrams cholesterol; 49 grams carbohydrates; 5 grams dietary fiber; 56 milligrams sodium (does not include added salt); 7 grams protein Martha Rose Shulman can be reached at martha-rose-shulman.com. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »