Advertisement By RONI CARYN RABINFEB. 27, 2009
 Federal Officials Investigating University Over Drug Payments Federal officials are investigating Emory University in Atlanta to see if the school misled the National Institutes of Health regarding payments received by a prominent psychiatrist from a drug company, The Wall Street Journal reports. The controversy involves Dr. Charles Nemeroff, who was a chief researcher on a N.I.H. project to study several GlaxoSmithKline drugs while he also was paid hundreds of thousands of dollars by G.S.K. Georgia Lawmakers Propose Ban on Multiple Embryo Transfers A Georgia state legislator has introduced a bill that would bar doctors from transferring more than two donated eggs or embryos in any single fertility treatment cycle, the Los Angeles Times reports. The lawmaker's action follows the birth of octuplets in California late last month. More Drugs Needed to Fight Flu, Researchers Say Experts are urging world governments to stockpile a greater variety of drugs to fight the next flu pandemic and to come up with new medicines to fight the bird flu virus H5N1, Reuters reports. Speaking from a medical conference in Hong Kong, experts said the two drugs stockpiled by most countries are oseltamivir and zanamivir, but there is concern oseltamivir will not stand up against bird flu. F.D.A.: Indian Drug Maker Lied About Test Results The Food and Drug Administration says India's largest drug maker lied about test results on dozens of its generic drugs, the Associated Press reports. Agency officials say the company, Ranbaxy Laboratories, did not test the shelf life of drugs properly and then lied about the results. Six months ago, the F.D.A. stopped allowing 30 generic drugs made at two Indian plants into the country. Malaysia's Losing Field Hockey Team Ordered to Stop Smoking Malaysia national field hockey team has ordered players who smoke to enter rehab and quit after the team failed to qualify for the Beijing Olympics last year and finished last in a tournament held on its home turf, Agence France-Presse says. There are ten smokers on the team. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »