Advertisement By NICHOLAS BAKALARFEB. 23, 2009
 In this occasional feature, Science Times will look at the newspaper’s first mention of world-shaking medical discoveries that may have seemed modest at the time.  Alexander Fleming was an accomplished biologist well before his famous discovery of penicillin, and his name first appeared in The New York Times on May 18,  1922, seven years before any news of the drug. Fleming had discovered that human tears have an antibacterial effect, produced by a substance called lysozyme. Scientists now know that lysozyme is an enzyme, N-acetylmuramide glycanhydrolase, that destroys the cell walls of certain types of bacteria. The Times article led with a literary allusion that might seem unlikely for a science reporter today: “Tennyson, it appears, made a mistake in calling tears ‘idle.’” Then, in 1928, either by experiment or by accident (the historical record is unclear), Fleming found an antibiotic in a mold called penicillium notatum. He called the substance penicillin and published a paper on it in 1929 in the now defunct British Journal of Experimental Pathology. The Times took no note of it. It was Oct. 20, 1940, before the word penicillin appeared in the newspaper, in a 230-word item in a roundup of science news, under the heading “A New ‘Sulfanilamide.’” On May 6, 1941, a full-column article described its first use in humans.  “‘Giant’ Germicide Yielded by Mold” read the headline, with a subhead that said “New Non-Toxic Drug Said to Be the Most Powerful Germ Killer Ever Discovered.” An article on Tuesday about the first mention of penicillin in The New York Times misstated, at one point, the year that occurred. As the article correctly noted, the word first appeared in 1940, not 1922. (Alexander Fleming, the biologist who discovered penicillin, was first mentioned in the newspaper in 1922.) A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D7 of the New York edition with the headline: Penicillin, 1922.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »