Advertisement By RONI CARYN RABINFEB. 23, 2009
 Next on the Administration's Agenda: Health Care Reform Now that the economic stimulus package has been signed, President Obama will turn his attention to health care and this week will outline plans to cover all Americans at prices they can afford, Bloomberg reports. An administration official says President Obama will tell a joint meeting of Congress that reform is a priority; he will say how he plans to pay for it in the budget he submits on Feb. 26. Health Survey Finds Philadelphians Struggling Diabetes, high blood pressure and obesity rates are inching upward in the Philadelphia area, according to a health survey of 10,000 households in southeastern Pennsylvania, the Philadelphia Inquirer reports. And people are cutting back on meals because of financial concerns, with more than one of 10 households in southeastern Pennsylvania and nearly one in five in the city reporting they have had to skip or cut back on meals to make ends meet. Former D.C. Mayor Marion Barry in Intensive Care Former Washington, D.C., mayor Marion Barry is in intensive care at Howard University Hospital after receiving a kidney transplant, The Washington Post reports. Kim Dickens, 47, a longtime friend, donated the kidney to the former mayor, a spokesperson said. Mr. Barry served six months in prison after the F.B.I. caught him smoking crack cocaine in a sting operation in 1990. Indian Authorities Arrest Two Doctors on Murder Charges Police in India have arrested two physicians on murder charges, saying they spread hepatitis B by injecting patients with used needles, the Agence France-Presse reports. At least 34 people have died in an outbreak in western Gujarat state. European Governments Wrestle With Right-to-Die Ethics Two right-to-die cases have been in the headlines in Europe recently, including the case of an Italian woman who was in a vegetative state for 17 years and a British woman who sought to travel to Switzerland to end her life, N.P.R. reports. But European laws are in conflict; while Holland and Belgium legalized euthanasia under strict rules in 2002 and an organization in Switzerland helps the terminally ill with suicide, laws are vague in Germany and restrictive in Spain, France and Italy. In England, Scotland and Wales, assisting with suicide can result in murder charges. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »