Advertisement By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.APRIL 27, 2009
 A vaccine that protects babies against fatal bacterial infections was introduced in Rwanda last week, its first distribution in a third world country. The pneumococcal conjugate vaccine has been sold under the Prevnar brand name in the United States since 2000, and Rwanda will get 2.5 million doses — enough for all its children under age 1 — donated by Wyeth Pharmaceuticals. In the next couple of years, Rwanda hopes to get a more powerful form and donor money to help pay for it. “It’s pretty cool,” Dr. Orin Levine, a pneumonia expert at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, said as he caught a plane to Rwanda for the vaccine’s introduction. “We wanted to make sure the kids who need it the most get it as easily as the kids in rich countries who can pay for it but arguably need it least.” Advertisement Dr. Levine leads the Pneumococcal Vaccines Accelerated Development and Introduction Plan, which was started with a Gates Foundation grant to get the vaccine to poor countries. Streptococcus pneumoniae kills a few American children each year, but is a major killer in poor countries. Anyone infected with the virus that causes AIDS is 40 times as likely as an uninfected person to die of the bacteria, Dr. Levine said. Advertisement The current Prevnar formulation protects against the seven strains that caused 80 percent of the infections when Prevnar was introduced. Since other strains have become more common, several companies are working on new vaccines.  The Global Update on Tuesday, using information from a scientist about the introduction of the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine in Rwanda, misstated the number of doses of vaccine the country will receive and the age of the children who will be covered. Rwanda is to get 2.5 million doses, not 3 million, and those will be for all children 1 and younger, not all children under age 5. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D6 of the New York edition with the headline: Pneumonia: Rwanda Receives Vaccine to Shield Babies Against Bacterial Infections.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »