Advertisement By HENRY FOUNTAINJAN. 4, 2010
 In Southern California, a place where most everything is new, botanists have discovered something very old: a scrub oak that has been cloning itself for at least 13,000 years. The oak, a low thicket of about 70 stem clusters that covers 2,000 square feet in a gulch in the Jurupa Hills of Riverside County, cannot reproduce by sexual means. Instead it reproduces vegetatively, after a fire, with new sprouts growing from the base of burned stems. That means all the plant tissue is genetically identical. “It’s hopped out of the Darwinian struggle for existence,” said Edward Newbigin, a botanist at the University of Melbourne in Australia who was not involved in the research but edited a paper describing the clone in the online journal PLoS ONE. The thicket, of the species Quercus palmeri, or Palmer’s oak, was found about 10 years ago by scientists conducting a survey of plant diversity in the region. Advertisement Several characteristics led researchers to consider that it might be a clone, said Jeffrey Ross-Ibarra, a professor in the department of plant sciences at the University of California, Davis, and senior author of the PLoS ONE paper. “From a botanical standpoint, it was in a place where it shouldn’t be,” Dr. Ross-Ibarra said. Normally, Palmer’s oak is found at higher elevations and in areas with more moisture. Also, the researchers could not find any mature acorns — all of those they found were small, green and incapable of germinating. Advertisement Most oaks need pollen from a different genetic individual to produce fertile acorns. But the Jurupa oak “is the only individual of the species for many miles around,” Dr. Ross-Ibarra said.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. When the oak first grew thousands of years ago, near the end of the epoch of glaciation called the Pleistocene, it most likely had neighbors. But as the climate grew warmer and drier, only it survived, protected in its spot between two large granite boulders. As for determining the plant’s age, Dr. Ross-Ibarra said, “What we were really hoping for was to dig around in the soil and find some old wood left around from the original clone.” That would have allowed them to come up with a precise age using radiocarbon techniques. But plant tissue at the site is at most a few hundred years old, any original stems having long since vanished to decay or, more likely, termites. So the researchers estimated the age by measuring annual growth rates in stems and factoring that in to the size of the thicket. They estimated that the clone is 13,000 to 18,000 years old. That makes it one of the oldest known clones, although not the oldest. Among others, there is a quaking aspen in Utah that dates to at least 80,000 years ago. Dr. Ross-Ibarra said long-lived clones might, in fact, not be all that rare. “No one’s taken the time to look at them,” he said. A version of this article appears in print on January 5, 2010, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: In California, a Scrub Oak Is an Old Pro at Cloning.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »