Advertisement By PAULINE W. CHEN, M.D.MARCH 12, 2009
 During my surgical training, I was taught never to abandon a patient, no matter how difficult the operation or how complex the clinical course. As one senior surgeon put it, “Once you lay your hands on a patient, that patient is yours.” At the time, I embraced the idea of sticking with my patients and believed it was the fundamental value of my chosen field. Since then, however, I have learned two things. First, that every physician, no matter his or her specialty, is taught the same thing. And second, that despite our long-held belief that doctors should never abandon their patients, many of us have already done so. This week, The Archives of Internal Medicine published the results of a study from Seattle that examined feelings of abandonment at the end of life from the perspective of patients, caregivers, nurses and physicians. Investigators from the University of Washington and the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center followed 55 patients with terminal diseases in the year leading up to their death, as well as the dozens of family caregivers, nurses and physicians involved in their care. Most striking, and perhaps most poignant, were the discrepancies the investigators found between doctors and patients. While the doctors were aware that dying patients might feel abandoned and even took what they believed were steps to prevent it, patients and their caregivers continued to feel abandoned by their doctors both in the period leading up to and at the time of death. Advertisement One reason, according to study investigators, was that physicians were unaware of the importance for patients, and caregivers, of closure. A sense of closure helped mitigate any feelings of abandonment, they found. And efforts to achieve closure could range from openly acknowledging that a visit might be the last with the patient, to calling the family or sending a condolence note after death. Advertisement As I read this study, I thought about a patient I had cared for several years ago. John (not his real name) and his niece had come to my clinic after Googling “liver cancer,” “surgery” and “Los Angeles.” At the time, John was 70, trim and prided himself on being part of a family of literary scholars. A lifelong bachelor, John had moved in with his niece after retiring as chief curator of a renowned university collection of rare Asian books and documents. We spent the better part of his first clinic visit talking about the famous professors and diplomats who frequented his reading room and the centuries-old Buddhist texts that were kept under lock in a secret room beyond the stacks. “We ended up getting those scrolls,” John whispered to me, “because the monks wanted to keep them away from the Nazis.” John’s liver tumors turned out to be too large for an operation, so I referred him to an oncologist for chemotherapy. Over the next few months, however, he would remain informally under my care. He and his niece, who was in charge of shuttling him to all his appointments, would call to discuss his progress, and they even invited me to take part in some of his medical decisions. While John ended up living far longer than any of his doctors expected, in the week before his death — which he predicted to the day — he remembered every one of us. He wrote us notes and sent me two handmade, wooden Mandarin ducks. In nature, Mandarin ducks mate for life. John had never found a partner but made it clear from his very first clinic visit that he hoped I, single at the time, eventually would. The oncologist wrote back to John’s niece, thanking her for all the work she had done caring for her uncle and telling her of the wonderful impression John had left on him and his staff. I, on the other hand, never wrote back. Or called. I thought about John, and his niece, when I decided to call Dr. Anthony L. Back, the lead author of the study on abandonment at end of life. As it happens, Dr. Back is a nationally known expert on doctor-patient communication, and I had enthusiastically read many of his previous studies that document the effectiveness of communication skills workshops for physicians. I had also found his new book, “Mastering Communication With Seriously Ill Patients: Balancing Honesty With Empathy and Hope" (Cambridge University Press), to be of immense practical help in broaching difficult subjects with patients. But now I was curious how Dr. Back viewed the disheartening results of his most recent study in light of all his previous work. “We talk a lot about the professional value of non-abandonment,” Dr. Back said to me, referring to the ideal of staying with one’s patients up until the very end. “But we don’t teach this value effectively. There are clearly doctors who aren’t aware of the tremendous therapeutic value of their presence, even on the phone. And then I think there are doctors who are worried about how they will manage their emotions, so they keep things at arm’s length.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “Communication skills can be taught,” he continued. “There’s a whole set of skills involved — learning about your own responses to patients and how you are with them. The more expertise you have managing patients and yourself, the closer you can be without running into problems.” Advertisement I wondered if the lack of closure by doctors might be due in part to their belief that they had somehow failed their patients. “This culture puts a tremendous emphasis on finding the magic bullet,” Dr. Back observed gently, “and a patient’s death can’t help but feel like a kind of failure. But you have to learn to see all the other ways in which your work with someone has meaning.” I asked Dr. Back if he had any advice for patients based on this study’s results. “Patients should say, ‘I want to keep in contact with you and am wondering if I can talk to you on the phone once in a while before I get too sick to talk.’ ” Dr. Back paused, then added, “That would be a very powerful request for doctors. Most of the time patients don’t ask because they are afraid of what the doctor will say. And if they are already in a good relationship with their doctor, they don’t anticipate that they would ever need to ask.” Dr. Back reflected on his own experiences. “When I first started doing this,” he said, “I had to wind myself up because I had all kinds of feelings about these conversations. Now I do it because I get a lot out of it as a doctor. It’s really nice for me to have one last conversation. It is an opportunity for me to ask how they are doing, to tell them how impressed I have been by the work they and their family have done. And people invariably say something about my work with them, so it is nourishing for me.” “Having closure is therapeutic not only for the patient and caregivers but also for the doctors,” he said. “Once we get over this awkwardness of calling somebody, it can be immensely gratifying.” I still have the ducks. One is missing an eye, and the other has a chipped beak, injury wrought by my twin daughters who carted the ducks around with them, one each, like a security blanket when they were just learning to walk. I’ve lost the niece’s phone number but still have her letters to me, with her address, and wrote her this afternoon after completing this column. I told her how much she and her uncle had affected me, and about my husband and family. I wrote the note I should have written years ago. And I apologized that it had taken me so long to do so. Join the discussion on the Well blog, “When Doctors Disappear.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »