Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu.  Ribollita By Mark Bittman About 50 minutes easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Whole Wheat Pappardelle With Fava Purée By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking  Puréed Winter Squash and Red Lentil Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes  Chicken Breasts With Feta and Figs By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus 30 to 60 minutes' marinating  Spring Ramen Bowl With Snap Peas and Asparagus By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours healthy Farro and Vegetable Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 3 hours  Bess Feigenbaum’s Cabbage Soup By Elaine Louie 3 hours healthy Cabbage With Tomatoes, Bulgur and Chickpeas By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes healthy Majorcan Bread and Vegetable Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Tuscan Bread and Tomato Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes  Ribollita By Mark Bittman About 50 minutes easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Whole Wheat Pappardelle With Fava Purée By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking  Puréed Winter Squash and Red Lentil Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes  Chicken Breasts With Feta and Figs By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus 30 to 60 minutes' marinating  Spring Ramen Bowl With Snap Peas and Asparagus By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours healthy Farro and Vegetable Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 3 hours  Bess Feigenbaum’s Cabbage Soup By Elaine Louie 3 hours healthy Cabbage With Tomatoes, Bulgur and Chickpeas By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes healthy Majorcan Bread and Vegetable Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Tuscan Bread and Tomato Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes  Ribollita By Mark Bittman About 50 minutes easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   In Tuscany region of Italy, the way to transform leftover bean and vegetable soup into the ultimate comfort food is to reheat the soup with dry or toasted bread, then blend it into a thick, comforting pap. This is called ribollita, which means “reboiled.” 
Featured in: 
A Bowlful Of Our Daily Bread. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Italian,
                    Country Bread,
                    Vegetable
 By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes By Florence Fabricant 35 minutes By Mark Bittman 35 to 45 minutes with cooked beans By Alison Roman 20 minutes, plus marinating By Melissa Clark 15 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Julia Moskin
         Cooking Guide 
          By Sam Sifton
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.