Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

AUG. 16, 2010
 Use this pungent mixture as a vegetable dip, a spread or a pasta sauce. When you use it as a sauce, thin it with a spoonful of the pasta cooking water. 2 plump garlic cloves, halved, green shoots removed 1/2 cup fresh basil or parsley leaves, or a combination 1 cup low-fat or nonfat cottage cheese Salt and freshly ground pepper to taste 1 tablespoon plain low-fat or nonfat yogurt 1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil 1/4 cup freshly grated Parmesan 1. Turn on a food processor fitted with the steel blade, and drop in the garlic. When the garlic is chopped and adhering to the sides of the bowl, stop the machine and scrape down the bowl with a spatula. Add the basil and/or parsley, and process until finely chopped. Stop the machine, and scrape down the sides of the bowl. Add the remaining ingredients, and process until smooth and creamy. Serve with pasta, or as a dip or spread. If serving with pasta, use 2 to 3 tablespoons of the cottage cheese pesto per serving (in my home, that’s 3 ounces of dry pasta). Add a spoonful of the pasta cooking water to the cottage cheese mixture to dilute it before tossing with the pasta. Advertisement Yield: Makes 1 heaped cup (about 1 cup plus 2 tablespoons). Advance preparation: This will keep for a couple of days in the refrigerator. It will become more pungent, however, and the green will fade.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Nutritional information per 2-tablespoon serving (using 2 percent low-fat cottage cheese): 47 calories; 3 grams fat; 1 gram saturated fat; 5 milligrams cholesterol; 1 gram carbohydrates; 0 grams dietary fiber; 118 milligrams sodium (does not include salt added during preparation); 4 grams protein Nutritional information per 2-tablespoon serving (using fat-free cottage cheese): 43 calories; 2 grams fat; 1 gram saturated fat; 3 milligrams cholesterol; 2 grams carbohydrates; 0 grams dietary fiber; 131 milligrams sodium (does not include salt added during preparation); 4 grams protein Advertisement Martha Rose Shulman can be reached at martha-rose-shulman.com. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »