Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu.  Potato, Carrot And Celery Root Stuffing By Molly O'Neill 50 minutes healthy Endive Salad With Blue Cheese Dressing By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy Fresh Tomato Sauce By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes easy Poached Rhubarb By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Stuffed Peppers With Red Rice, Chard and Feta By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour easy Seared Belgian Endive With Walnut Gremolata By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Stuffed Roasted Yellow Peppers or Red Peppers in Tomato Sauce By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour healthy Celery Root, Potato and Apple Purée By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes  Roasted Root Vegetables By Mark Bittman And Sam Sifton 1 hour 30 minutes easy Root Vegetable Soup By Melissa Clark 1 hour  Thanksgiving Roasted Root Veggies By Tara Parker-Pope 1 hour 15 minutes  Garden Vegetable Gratin By Tara Parker-Pope 2 hours 30 minutes  Potato, Carrot And Celery Root Stuffing By Molly O'Neill 50 minutes healthy Endive Salad With Blue Cheese Dressing By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy Fresh Tomato Sauce By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes easy Poached Rhubarb By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Stuffed Peppers With Red Rice, Chard and Feta By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour easy Seared Belgian Endive With Walnut Gremolata By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Stuffed Roasted Yellow Peppers or Red Peppers in Tomato Sauce By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour healthy Celery Root, Potato and Apple Purée By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes  Roasted Root Vegetables By Mark Bittman And Sam Sifton 1 hour 30 minutes easy Root Vegetable Soup By Melissa Clark 1 hour  Thanksgiving Roasted Root Veggies By Tara Parker-Pope 1 hour 15 minutes  Garden Vegetable Gratin By Tara Parker-Pope 2 hours 30 minutes  Potato, Carrot And Celery Root Stuffing By Molly O'Neill 50 minutes healthy Endive Salad With Blue Cheese Dressing By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   Use turnips, rutabagas, kohlrabi or a mix of these vegetables in this delicate winter gratin. 
Featured in: 
Winter Root Vegetables. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Gluten Free,
                    Gruyere,
                    Root Vegetable
 By Melissa Clark 1 1/2 hours, plus 4 hours or overnight chilling By Melissa Clark 1 hour, plus at least 4 hours’ chilling By Julia Moskin 1 hour 40 minutes By Melissa Clark 1 hour By Pierre Franey 20 minutes By Glenn Collins About 45 minutes By Mark Bittman 2 hours By Alison Roman 30 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Samin Nosrat
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.