Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu.  Fresh Tomato Soup With Basil and Farro By Melissa Clark 1 1/2 hours  Spring Ramen Bowl With Snap Peas and Asparagus By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours  Chicken Tagine With Rhubarb By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes  Garlic Shrimp With Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking  Braised Halibut With Asparagus, Baby Potatoes and Saffron By Martha Rose Shulman 35 minutes  Brown Rice Bowls With Stewed Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes  Tuscan Farro Soup By Mark Bittman 1 1/2 hours healthy Farro and Arborio Risotto With Leeks, Herbs and Lemon By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Collard Greens With Farro By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 10 minutes healthy Farro With Mushrooms By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours  Farro Salad By Jeff Gordinier 45 minutes  Fresh Tomato Soup With Basil and Farro By Melissa Clark 1 1/2 hours  Spring Ramen Bowl With Snap Peas and Asparagus By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours  Chicken Tagine With Rhubarb By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes  Garlic Shrimp With Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking  Braised Halibut With Asparagus, Baby Potatoes and Saffron By Martha Rose Shulman 35 minutes  Brown Rice Bowls With Stewed Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes  Tuscan Farro Soup By Mark Bittman 1 1/2 hours healthy Farro and Arborio Risotto With Leeks, Herbs and Lemon By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Collard Greens With Farro By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 10 minutes healthy Farro With Mushrooms By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours  Farro Salad By Jeff Gordinier 45 minutes  Fresh Tomato Soup With Basil and Farro By Melissa Clark 1 1/2 hours  Spring Ramen Bowl With Snap Peas and Asparagus By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   This thick, hearty meal is inspired by a traditional Provençal harvest soup. Farro (spelt) and the softer emmer wheat are grains that were once peasant staples in the mountainous areas of Provence, though they are less common now. Traditionally, the grain is simmered with a mutton, prosciutto or ham bone. I use Parmesan rinds to enrich the flavor of this version. 
Featured in: 
Soups With Grains. 
   

Learn: How to Make Soup
 
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Farro,
                    Vegetable
 By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours, plus soaking of the beans and farro By Melissa Clark 45 minutes By Mark Bittman 1 1/2 hours By Melissa Clark 1 1/2 to 2 hours By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour, not including chilling in the refrigerator or baking the sweet potatoes By Melissa Clark 1 hour 15 minutes, plus at least 30 minutes’ marinating By Florence Fabricant 20 minutes By Julia Moskin 30 to 40 minutes, plus marinating Cooking Guide 
          By Samin Nosrat
         Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Sam Sifton
         Cooking Guide 
          By Samin Nosrat
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.