Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu.  Chicken Broth By Molly O'Neill About 5 hours, plus overnight refrigeration  Puréed Winter Squash and Red Lentil Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes  Brown Rice Bowls With Stewed Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes  Chicken Breasts With Feta and Figs By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus 30 to 60 minutes' marinating  Braised Halibut With Asparagus, Baby Potatoes and Saffron By Martha Rose Shulman 35 minutes  Chicken Tagine With Rhubarb By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes  Zucchini Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours  Lemon Chicken By Nicole Mones 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Chicken Soup With Leeks and Lemon By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 10 minutes healthy Winter Tomato Soup With Bulgur By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour  Basic Chicken Soup By Molly O'Neill 3 1/2 hours easy Bulgur By Craig Claiborne 30 minutes  Chicken Broth By Molly O'Neill About 5 hours, plus overnight refrigeration  Puréed Winter Squash and Red Lentil Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes  Brown Rice Bowls With Stewed Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes  Chicken Breasts With Feta and Figs By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus 30 to 60 minutes' marinating  Braised Halibut With Asparagus, Baby Potatoes and Saffron By Martha Rose Shulman 35 minutes  Chicken Tagine With Rhubarb By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes  Zucchini Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours  Lemon Chicken By Nicole Mones 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Chicken Soup With Leeks and Lemon By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 10 minutes healthy Winter Tomato Soup With Bulgur By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour  Basic Chicken Soup By Molly O'Neill 3 1/2 hours easy Bulgur By Craig Claiborne 30 minutes  Chicken Broth By Molly O'Neill About 5 hours, plus overnight refrigeration  Puréed Winter Squash and Red Lentil Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   Bulgur is just one grain you can add to this lemony soup; quinoa or rice, which is traditional, work equally well. If you use all of the shredded chicken called for in this recipe (you don’t have to), the soup becomes much like a stew. Make the broth the day before; after it chills overnight in the refrigerator, skim the fat from the surface. 
Featured in: 
Soups With Grains. 
   

Learn: How to Make Soup
 
Healthy,
                    Bulgur,
                    Chicken
 By Julia Moskin 1 hour By David Tanis 1 hour 15 minutes By Marian Burros 35 minutes By Jennifer Steinhauer About 2 hours 30 minutes By Amanda Hesser 30 minutes By Jonathan Reynolds 1 hour 15 minutes, plus 45 minutes' refrigeration and up to 8 hours' steeping By Mark Bittman 15 minutes, plus overnight resting time By Alison Roman 20 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Samin Nosrat
         Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Sam Sifton
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.