Advertisement By KENNETH CHANGSEPT. 24, 2011
 A dead NASA satellite, intently tracked by people around the world over the last couple of days, finally fell back to Earth — and it may turn out that no one will ever know when and where it fell. On its final orbital trajectory, the six-ton Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite passed to the south of Australia and then headed to the northeast across the Pacific toward Vancouver, British Columbia. The Air Force’s Joint Space Operations Center at Vandenberg Air Force Base in California, which tracks space debris, predicted re-entry at 12:16 a.m. Eastern time on Saturday over the northeastern Pacific. While NASA did receive reports of people who saw lights in the sky that they thought were pieces of the disintegrating satellite, none of them occurred at a time and place where the satellite would have been passing by, and people looking at the correct time and place did not see anything. Mr. Cole said NASA was awaiting more details from the Joint Space Operations Center. There were no reports of damage or injuries. Advertisement The satellite had been expected to re-enter Friday afternoon, but its rate of fall slowed. At least 26 pieces, the largest at 330 pounds, had been expected to survive the plunge and land along a path 500 miles long. NASA had forecast a 1-in-3,200 risk that debris from the satellite could injure someone. There are no known instances of anyone being injured by falling space debris (though in 1997, a woman in Oklahoma was brushed by a piece of mesh from a Delta 2 rocket booster that did her no harm). When the space shuttle Columbia disintegrated during re-entry in 2003, the seven astronauts aboard died, but no one on the ground was hurt as 42.5 tons of debris showered down from West Texas to southwest Louisiana. Advertisement The UARS satellite was launched in 1991 by the space shuttle Discovery and was decommissioned in 2005, when it was placed into a lower orbit so it would not cause any problems for the International Space Station. A version of this article appears in print on September 25, 2011, on Page A20 of the New York edition with the headline: Satellite Falls, But Where Is a Mystery.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »