Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

JUNE 28, 2011
 I prefer to cook my own black beans for this pâté. With white and red beans, the difference between canned and home-cooked isn’t significant enough to matter in the pâté. It does matter with the black beans, though. This tastes like a very light version of refried beans. 1 can black beans, rinsed, or (preferably) 1 2/3 cups cooked black beans 1/4 cup extra virgin olive oil 1/2 cup finely chopped onion 3 garlic cloves, minced 2 teaspoons cumin seeds, ground 1 teaspoon mild chili powder 2 eggs 1/4 cup finely chopped cilantro Salt to taste (about 3/4 teaspoon) Freshly ground pepper to taste Advertisement 1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Butter or oil a 5-cup pâté tureen or baking dish, or a bread pan. Advertisement 2. Heat 2 tablespoons of the olive oil over medium heat in a medium skillet. Add the onion. Cook, stirring, until tender, about five minutes. Add 2 cloves of the garlic, the cumin and the chili powder. Cook, stirring, until the garlic is fragrant, about one minute. Stir in the cilantro. Remove from the heat. 3. Turn on a food processor fitted with the steel blade, and drop in the remaining clove of garlic. When the garlic is chopped and adhering to the sides of the bowl, stop the food processor and scrape down the bowl. Place the beans and eggs in the food processor, and turn on the machine. Add the remaining 2 tablespoons of olive oil, and process until smooth. Add the onion mixture, and pulse to combine. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Scrape into the prepared baking dish, and cover tightly.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 4. Bake for 40 to 45 minutes until the pâté is set and the top is just beginning to color. Remove from the heat, and allow to cool. For best results, refrigerate overnight. Serve at room temperature or cold. Yield: Serves 8 to 10. Advance preparation: This pâté keeps for about five days in the refrigerator. Nutritional information per serving (eight servings): 131 calories; 1 gram saturated fat; 1 gram polyunsaturated fat; 5 grams monounsaturated fat; 47 milligrams cholesterol; 9 grams carbohydrates; 3 grams dietary fiber; 394 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 5 grams protein Nutritional information per serving (10 servings): 105 calories; 1 gram saturated fat; 1 gram polyunsaturated fat; 4 grams monounsaturated fat; 37 milligrams cholesterol; 7 grams carbohydrates; 3 grams dietary fiber; 315 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 4 grams protein Martha Rose Shulman is the author of "The Very Best of Recipes for Health."  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »