Advertisement By GARDINER HARRISJUNE 10, 2011
 WASHINGTON — Government scientists are expected today to declare styrene a likely human carcinogen, a move that manufacturers have long feared. Styrene is used to make those ubiquitous white foam coffee cups and food containers and is widely used in building materials. The primary risk to the general public from styrene exposure, however, comes from breathing indoor air, since its use is widespread in building materials and the exposure that comes from coffee cups and food containers is small. Still, styrene in food and water are risk factors, according to government scientists. Tobacco smokers are also exposed to styrene. Formaldehyde is also expected to be declared a possible carcinogen in the Report on Carcinogens, put together by the National Toxicology Program, which is part of the National Institutes of Health. Studies suggest that exposure to formaldehyde — used widely in the funeral industry and building materials and even found in some popular hair treatments — could cause a form of leukemia. Manufacturers have been lobbying fiercely for years against both designations, saying that no good studies have shown that either chemical causes cancer. Spokesmen for manufacturers said they would appeal the designations. Advertisement “It will unfairly scare workers, plant neighbors and could have a chilling effect on the development of new products,” said Tom Dobbins, a spokesman for the American Composites Manufacturers Association. “Our companies are primarily small businesses, and this could hurt jobs and local economies.” Styrene, an important component of polystyrene, is used primarily in the manufacture of plastic packaging, thermal insulation in buildings, and disposable cups and food containers. It is also an important component of fiberglass and is found in boats, shower stalls and carpet backing. Advertisement Workers at plants that use styrene can be exposed to high levels of the substance. Studies of workers in styrene plants have suggested that they suffer relatively high levels of cancer. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »