Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

JUNE 28, 2011
 This is an adaptation of a dish that I created in my early vegetarian days, when we cooked a lot with soybeans — although nobody really liked them. It occurred to me one day to add Marmite or Savorex, yeast extracts with an intense, somewhat meaty taste, and to use other seasonings from traditional pâtés to achieve a liverlike flavor. Now, of course, shelled edamame is available on most produce shelves, so there is no need to cook up dried soybeans. I recreated this pâté with fresh green soybeans, which takes all the hassle out of the original recipe. A quick word about the yeast extract, which many of you may object to because of the high glutamate content. If you use Vegemite, which is lower in glutamates than Marmite, one serving of this pâté (if serving eight) will contain 29 milligrams of free glutamates. To put that in perspective, one ounce of Parmesan cheese contains 300 milligrams of glutamates. 3 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 1/2 cup finely chopped onion 1 12-ounce bag frozen edamame (or use 2 heaped cups unfrozen), simmered for five minutes in lightly salted water and drained Advertisement 2 eggs 1/3 cup milk (1 percent or 2 percent) 2 tablespoons brandy (optional; if not using, add 2 more tablespoons milk) Advertisement 2 teaspoons yeast extract, like Vegemite, Savorex or Marmite 2 teaspoons tamari soy sauce 2 garlic cloves 1 teaspoon fresh thyme leaves, chopped, or 1/2 teaspoon dried thyme 1/8 teaspoon ground allspice 1/8 teaspoon ground ginger 1/4 teaspoon salt (more to taste) 1/4 teaspoon freshly ground pepper 1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Oil a 5-cup pâté tureen, casserole or bread pan.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 2. Heat 1 tablespoon of the olive oil over medium heat in a small skillet. Add the onion. Cook, stirring often, until tender, about five minutes. Remove from the heat. 3. Place the edamame in a food processor fitted with the steel blade, and pulse several times. Add all of the remaining ingredients except the onion, and process until smooth. Stop the machine and scrape down the sides, then process again until completely smooth. (This is important.) Add the onion, and pulse a few times to combine. 4. Scrape the mixture into the prepared baking dish, cover tightly, and bake 40 to 45 minutes until set. Remove from the heat, and allow to cool. Refrigerate overnight for the best flavor. Yield: Eight to 10 servings. Advance preparation: This pâté will keep for about five days in the refrigerator. Nutritional information per serving (eight servings): 135 calories; 1 gram saturated fat; 1 gram polyunsaturated fat; 4 grams monounsaturated fat; 47 milligrams cholesterol; 6 grams carbohydrates; 2 grams dietary fiber; 233 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 8 grams protein Nutritional information per serving (10 servings): 108 calories; 1 gram saturated fat; 1 gram polyunsaturated fat; 3 grams monounsaturated fat; 38 milligrams cholesterol; 5 grams carbohydrates; 2 grams dietary fiber; 187 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 4 grams protein Advertisement Martha Rose Shulman is the author of "The Very Best of Recipes for Health."  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »