Advertisement Supported by Reactions By The New York Times Antidepressants A Decision for Mothers TO THE EDITOR:  Re “Pills May Put Babies at Risk” (The Consumer, Sept. 2): Every decision that a pregnant woman makes has an inherent risk to her newborn. As a psychiatrist, when a pregnant woman comes into the office and engages in an active dialogue about the risks and benefits of continuing their S.S.R.I.s, the scenario reflects that there is no easy, black or white answer to this question. Indeed, there are studies that indicate the potential complications and risks of use of S.S.R.I.s on prenatal development.  At the same time, many women also remember the despair of their depressive or anxiety episodes and how they came to initiate medications such as S.S.R.I.s for the treatment of their symptoms, which improved their functioning and in some instances kept them safe from their suicidal ideations. The decision to continue or discontinue S.S.R.I.s during pregnancy should be a collective one made by the mother-to-be and her provider, and should be one where all risks and benefits are thoughtfully considered.  Let’s not allow the opinion of one physician to prevent mothers-to-be from seeking out a potentially lifesaving treatment. Annie S. Li, M.D. Portland, Me. For all those women freaking out: I was on Prozac most of my pregnancy, and my son doesn’t have autism or congenital defects, and he spoke early. He just aced his college entrance exams. I am more worried about the hideous depression I suffered through during my first trimester, without Prozac. Could a constant bath of cortisol in utero be the reason he gets anxiety? But then, mood disorders also run in our family. Comp, MD, posted to nytimes.com Nutrition The Carb Conundrum TO THE EDITOR:  “A Call for a Low-Carb Diet” (Sept. 2) classifies diets containing 30 percent of calories from fat as low in fat. It’s no wonder Americans are confused about what to eat. A truly low-fat diet, one that’s clinically proven to boost metabolism, lower blood pressure and stabilize blood sugar, contains only 10 percent of calories from fat. The secret? Loading up with fiber. The participants in this study readjusted macronutrient profiles but only consumed about 15 grams of fiber a day — far less than the recommendation. Large bodies of research continue to show study participants who opt for fiber-packed, plant-based staples — grains, vegetables, fruits, and legumes — fare better in the long run.  Susan Levin Washington The writer is director of nutrition education for the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine.  It seems that every other day, somebody is writing abut what’s good and not good for you. Enough. I am thoroughly convinced that for most people, staying away from fast food, junk food, processed foods and excess amounts of anything will lead to good health. A balanced diet of real food, hopefully prepared at home, was the cornerstone of the American diet for years, and it worked just fine. No need to reinvent the wheel. H Silk, Tennessee, posted to nytimes.com Science Times welcomes letters, comments on nytimes.com and social media posts from readers. Email should be sent to scitimes@nytimes.com.  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS