Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

JUNE 8, 2012
 I’m always tweaking the way I cook quinoa, and this week I changed my method for basic quinoa. I’d been cooking it sort of like pasta, in 3 parts water, then draining it and letting it dry out in a towel-covered pan. Ordinarily, this is a good way to obtain very fluffy grains, and you get a lot of volume too. But lately I’ve been finding that my quinoa is soggy – more waterlogged than fluffy – when I cook it this way, even after it rests under the towel. Are the grains different? I don’t know. Whatever the reason, I decided to change the grain-to-water ratio and followed the directions on my Alter Eco quinoa packages (Alter Eco is a company dedicated to fair-trade foods, and they import red, rainbow and pearl quinoas). I cooked the pearl and the red quinoas in 1 1/2 parts water and the rainbow in 2 parts water. The black quinoa in the rainbow mix takes a little longer to soften and requires a little more liquid to be properly hydrated. The grains were tighter and less moist than quinoa cooked in abundant water, and the yield was not as great because the grains don’t swell as much. But I liked the results, especially for salads, which were the destination for my quinoa experiments. Quinoa makes great salads because it has such a vegetal flavor. It can be the main ingredient or a lesser element added for texture and variation. This week’s recipes have great staying power, so make some of these on a Sunday and take them to work during the week. Quinoa and Asparagus Salad For this salad I cook 1 cup of quinoa in 1 1/2 cups water to get a slightly tighter, drier grain. The dressing is a lemony buttermilk dressing. 1 cup quinoa 1 1/2 cups water Salt to taste 1 pound asparagus, ends trimmed 6 radishes, sliced 2 tablespoons toasted pine nuts Advertisement 3 tablespoons finely chopped chives 2 teaspoons finely chopped tarragon 1 ounce feta cheese, crumbled (about 1/4 cup) Advertisement   For the dressing: 2 tablespoons freshly squeezed lemon juice 1 small garlic clove, puréed Salt to taste 1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil 5 tablespoons buttermilk Freshly ground pepper Lemon-scented olive oil for drizzling (optional)   1. Place the quinoa in a strainer and rinse several times with cold water. Place in a medium saucepan with 1 1/2 cups water and salt to taste. Bring to a boil, cover and simmer 15 minutes, until the grains display a threadlike spiral and the water is absorbed. Remove from the heat, remove the lid and place a dish towel over the pan, then return the lid to the pan and let sit for 10 minutes or longer undisturbed. Transfer to a salad bowl and fluff with forks.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 2. Steam the asparagus for 3 to 4 minutes, until just tender. Rinse with cold water, pat dry and cut on the diagonal into 1-inch pieces. Add to the quinoa, along with the radishes, pine nuts, chives and tarragon. 3. Whisk together the lemon juice, garlic, salt, olive oil, buttermilk and pepper. Shortly before serving, toss with the quinoa and asparagus mixture. Sprinkle the feta over the top and serve. If desired, drizzle a teaspoon of the lemon-scented olive oil over each serving. Yield: 4 to 6 servings. Advance preparation: You can assemble the salad up to a day ahead, but don’t toss with the dressing until shortly before serving so that the asparagus maintains its bright color. Nutritional information per serving (4 servings): 260 calories; 10 grams fat; 2 grams saturated fat; 3 grams polyunsaturated fat; 4 grams monounsaturated fat; 7 milligrams cholesterol; 35 grams carbohydrates; 5 grams dietary fiber; 109 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 11 grams protein. Nutritional information per serving (6 servings): 173 calories; 6 grams fat; 2 grams saturated fat; 2 grams polyunsaturated fat; 3 grams monounsaturated fat; 5 milligrams cholesterol; 23 grams carbohydrates; 4 grams dietary fiber; 73 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 8 grams protein. Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »