Advertisement JUNE 13, 2011
 To the Editor: Re “Law on End-of-Life Care Rankles Doctors” (Personal Health, June 7): As a practicing general internist and educator and someone who advocates for palliative care, I too am “rankled” by the concept that a law mandating that physicians discuss any health topic with every patient will effect change, improve outcomes or cut costs. The New York State law does not provide a framework to address the issue systematically or to educate patients (the other half of this equation), but it will add one more unproven checkbox to office and hospital notes. New Jersey has a similar law mandating that patients be queried about a living will or advance directive. Some are open to the discussion, but many elderly patients with medical issues specifically say they have no interest in discussing their mortality, and family members often share their denial. Michael P. Carson, M.D. Neptune, N.J. ♦ To the Editor: Jane Brody argues that physicians should offer options, including information regarding palliative and hospice care, to patients who would benefit little, if at all, from more aggressive treatment. I agree; however, this discussion should occur before a person reaches the end of life. Advance directives, including living wills and durable powers of attorney for health care, should be a part of everyone’s medical record and kept in the possession of close relatives or friends who could advocate for people who might be incapacitated and unable to make their own decisions. Carole York Lakewood, Calif. ♦ To the Editor: While I very much concur with Dr. James Tulsky’s position about the importance of allowing patients with a terminal illness to hold on to hope while at the same time addressing treatment decisions, I have learned through the journey of my closest friend, who is living with Stage IV breast cancer and has a determined will to live for as long as possible, that the use of language by professionals — doctors, social workers, support group leaders — can be a powerful force in preserving hope. In listening to their patients, professionals must take their lead from them, rather than imposing their agendas. Shelley Meyers Bloomfield, Conn. Science Times welcomes letters from readers. Those submitted for publication must include the writer’s name, address and telephone number. E-mail should be sent to scitimes@nytimes.com. Send letters to Science Editor, The New York Times, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018. A version of this letter appears in print on June 14, 2011, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: Palliative Prerogatives.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »