Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Lasagna With Roasted Eggplant, Mushrooms and Carrots By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours 15 minutes  Puréed Winter Squash and Red Lentil Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes  Greens and Chayote Enchiladas With Salsa Verde By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours  Zucchini Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours  Braised Halibut With Asparagus, Baby Potatoes and Saffron By Martha Rose Shulman 35 minutes  Monkfish à la Provençale By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking  Spinach Lasagna By Mark Bittman 1 hour healthy Stuffed Collard Greens By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours healthy Pasta With Collard Greens and Onions By Martha Rose Shulman 35 minutes healthy Lasagna With Spinach and Roasted Zucchini By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes healthy Lasagna With Roasted Broccoli By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 45 minutes healthy Lasagna With Roasted Eggplant, Mushrooms and Carrots By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours 15 minutes  Puréed Winter Squash and Red Lentil Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes  Greens and Chayote Enchiladas With Salsa Verde By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours  Zucchini Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours  Braised Halibut With Asparagus, Baby Potatoes and Saffron By Martha Rose Shulman 35 minutes  Monkfish à la Provençale By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking  Spinach Lasagna By Mark Bittman 1 hour healthy Stuffed Collard Greens By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours healthy Pasta With Collard Greens and Onions By Martha Rose Shulman 35 minutes healthy Lasagna With Spinach and Roasted Zucchini By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes healthy Lasagna With Roasted Broccoli By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 45 minutes healthy Lasagna With Roasted Eggplant, Mushrooms and Carrots By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours 15 minutes  Puréed Winter Squash and Red Lentil Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   Collard greens are so big and flat that they fill in for a layer of noodles in this easy, satisfying lasagna. When you make lasagna, be careful not to use up your ingredients on the first layers. You should have enough for three layers here. 
Featured in: 
Collard Greens, Fast Or Slow. 
   

Learn: How to Make Pasta
 
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    High Fiber,
                    Nut Free,
                    Italian,
                    Collard Green,
                    Marinara Sauce,
                    No Boil Lasagna Noodle
 By Sam Sifton 15 minutes, plus 1 hour to heat oven By Melissa Clark 1 1/4 hours plus at least 6 hours marinating By Pierre Franey About 15 minutes By Florence Fabricant 1 hour By Melissa Clark 20 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes By Julia Moskin about 2 hours By Florence Fabricant 20 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Samin Nosrat
         Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Sam Sifton
         Cooking Guide 
          By Sam Sifton
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.