Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

JUNE 19, 2012
 This anise-scentedsoup is reminiscent of the classic potato and leek soup known as vichyssoise,but it’s lighter and contains no dairy. It’s good hot or cold. 2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 1/2 large or 1 medium onion, diced 2 stalks celery, sliced 2 pounds bulbfennel, trimmed, washed and diced 1 pound Yukon gold potatoes, peeled and diced 6 garlic cloves or1/2 head green garlic, peeled and cut in half Salt to taste A bouquet garni made with a bay leaf, a couple of sprigs each parsley and thyme, 1/2 teaspoon fennel seeds and 1/4 teaspoon black peppercorns, tied in cheesecloth Advertisement 2 quarts water, vegetable stock or chicken stock Freshly ground pepper For garnish, choice of: Chopped fresh fennel fronds Lightly crushed fennel seeds Advertisement Paper-thin slices of fennel bulb Garlic croutons Shaved Parmesan 1. Heat the olive oil in a large, heavy soup pot or Dutch oven over medium heat and add the onion, celery, chopped fennel and a generous pinch of salt. Cook gently forabout 5 to 8 minutes, until the vegetables have softened and lost some of their volume. Add the potatoes, garlic, bouquet garni and the water or stock and bringto a boil. Reduce the heat, add salt to taste, cover and simmer 45 minutes.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 2. Remove the bouquet garni. Blend the soup until smooth with an immersion blender, or ladle into a blender, working in 1 1/2-cup batches. Remove the center from theblender cover, place a towel over the cover and pull it down tightly to prevent splashing. Blend and return to the pot. Heat through, add salt and pepper totaste and serve, or chill and serve cold, with your choice of garnishes. Yield: 6 servings. Advance preparation: This will be good for 2 to 3 days. Whisk the soup before reheating or serving cold. Nutritional information per serving (6 servings): 159 calories; 5 grams fat; 1 gram saturated fat; 1 gram polyunsaturated fat; 3 grams monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 28 grams carbohydrates; 7 grams dietary fiber; 105 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 4 grams protein    Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »