Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu.  Salmon With Smoked Salmon Butter By Florence Fabricant 20 minutes easy Poached Rhubarb By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes easy Seared Belgian Endive With Walnut Gremolata By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Asian Red Cabbage and Walnut Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes  Roasted Pepper and Goat Cheese Sandwich By Martha Rose Shulman 5 to 10 minutes healthy Berry Coconut Almond Smoothie By Martha Rose Shulman 3 minutes  Grilled Vanilla-Ginger Pineapple By Martha Rose Shulman 25 minutes easy Gently Smoked Salmon By Paul Greenberg 30 minutes healthy Lavash Pizza With Onions and Anchovies By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 20 minutes healthy Lavash Pizza With Greens, Baby Broccoli and Mushrooms By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes healthy Lavash Pizza With Zucchini and Goat Cheese Topping By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Lavash Pizza With Tomatoes, Mozzarella and Goat Cheese By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes  Salmon With Smoked Salmon Butter By Florence Fabricant 20 minutes easy Poached Rhubarb By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes easy Seared Belgian Endive With Walnut Gremolata By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Asian Red Cabbage and Walnut Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes  Roasted Pepper and Goat Cheese Sandwich By Martha Rose Shulman 5 to 10 minutes healthy Berry Coconut Almond Smoothie By Martha Rose Shulman 3 minutes  Grilled Vanilla-Ginger Pineapple By Martha Rose Shulman 25 minutes easy Gently Smoked Salmon By Paul Greenberg 30 minutes healthy Lavash Pizza With Onions and Anchovies By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 20 minutes healthy Lavash Pizza With Greens, Baby Broccoli and Mushrooms By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes healthy Lavash Pizza With Zucchini and Goat Cheese Topping By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Lavash Pizza With Tomatoes, Mozzarella and Goat Cheese By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes  Salmon With Smoked Salmon Butter By Florence Fabricant 20 minutes easy Poached Rhubarb By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   This is inspired by Wolfgang Puck’s signature smoked salmon pizza, and it’s a great way to work more salmon, rich in omega-3 fats, into your diet. The trick here is to bake the lavash just until the edges are crisp, but not so long that it’s too crisp all the way through to cut easily. 
Featured in: 
Pizza Without The Dough. 
   
Healthy,
                    Lavash,
                    Smoked Salmon
 By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour, plus 4 hours' marinating By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour By Marian Burros 15 minutes By Amanda Hesser 30 minutes By Rosie Schaap 3 minutes By Margaux Laskey 1 hour Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Tejal Rao
         Cooking Guide 
          By Samin Nosrat
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.