Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Lavash Pizza With Zucchini and Goat Cheese Topping By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Gingered Winter Fruit Ambrosia By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour healthy Pesto-Stuffed Portobello Burgers By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus marinating easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking healthy Stuffed Peppers With Red Rice, Chard and Feta By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour easy Seared Belgian Endive With Walnut Gremolata By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes easy Poached Rhubarb By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes easy Glazed Onions By William Grimes 30 minutes healthy Pizza With Spring Onions and Fennel By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Provençal Onion Pizza By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Lavash Pizza With Greens, Baby Broccoli and Mushrooms By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes healthy Lavash Pizza With Smoked Salmon By Martha Rose Shulman About 20 minutes healthy Lavash Pizza With Zucchini and Goat Cheese Topping By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Gingered Winter Fruit Ambrosia By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour healthy Pesto-Stuffed Portobello Burgers By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus marinating easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking healthy Stuffed Peppers With Red Rice, Chard and Feta By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour easy Seared Belgian Endive With Walnut Gremolata By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes easy Poached Rhubarb By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes easy Glazed Onions By William Grimes 30 minutes healthy Pizza With Spring Onions and Fennel By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Provençal Onion Pizza By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Lavash Pizza With Greens, Baby Broccoli and Mushrooms By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes healthy Lavash Pizza With Smoked Salmon By Martha Rose Shulman About 20 minutes healthy Lavash Pizza With Zucchini and Goat Cheese Topping By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Gingered Winter Fruit Ambrosia By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   This is inspired by the Provençal onion pizza called pissaladière. Omit the anchovies if you’re watching your sodium intake or you’re just not a fan. 
Featured in: 
Pizza Without The Dough. 
   
Healthy,
                    French,
                    Anchovy,
                    Lavash,
                    Onion
 By Julia Moskin 90 minutes By Yotam Ottolenghi 45 minutes By Julia Moskin About 3 hours By Julia Moskin 15 minutes By Pierre Franey 20 minutes By Alex Witchel 15 minutes By David Tanis 1 hour By Samin Nosrat 10 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Sam Sifton
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.