Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
 HENRY FOUNTAIN
 
SEPT. 28, 2009
 A tiny bubble can do a lot of work. In the ocean, for example, rising air bubbles in the surf drag certain compounds to the surface. These compounds, called surfactants, have a water-loving end (which stays in the water) and a water-avoiding end (which stays inside the bubble); when the bubbles reach the surface and pop, the surfactants are released. The effect is to concentrate these compounds in the air in the vicinity of the surf. A glass of Champagne, it turns out, is like a mini-ocean. When the cork is popped, bubbles of carbon dioxide form and rise to the surface. And a study by European researchers shows that these bubbles concentrate surfactants, many of which contribute to Champagne’s odor and flavor, in the air above the beverage. Gérard Liger-Belair of the University of Reims (in the Champagne region of France, naturally), Philippe Schmitt-Kopplin of the German Research Center for Environmental Health and colleagues used extremely high-resolution mass spectrometry to analyze the differences between the Champagne in the glass and in the air just above it. The researchers note in their paper, in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, that Champagne potentially produces on the order of 100 million bubbles per bottle. Given an average bubble diameter of about one-fiftieth of an inch, that means there is a total of about 100 square yards of surface area separating the bubbles from the bubbly. That is a lot of area to harbor surfactants. The researchers first used a scattershot approach that revealed potentially hundreds of compounds that were, essentially, being dragged out of the Champagne and becoming concentrated in the air above it. More discriminating analysis showed that several dozen of these compounds probably played a role in producing the beverage’s aroma or flavor. The researchers suggest that Champagne bubbles act like an elevator, bringing aromatic compounds up out of the liquid and into the air above it. The effect continues over and over as bubbles continue to form. A version of this article appears in print on September 29, 2009, on Page D3 of the National edition with the headline: Flavor and Aroma Rise In Champagne Bubbles.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »