Advertisement 

 Claudia Dreifus
 
 
A CONVERSATION WITH
NOV. 16, 2004
 CHICAGO - For much of her career, Dr. Martha McClintock, the experimental psychologist, has been stunning the scientific world with research on how social interactions affect biology  in humans and animals. The director of the University of Chicago's Institute for Mind and Biology, Dr. McClintock tends to investigate matters that are at once important and obvious. In 1971 she published her first scientific paper - a study showing that women living together in a Wellesley College dormitory tended to menstruate at the same time. The idea grew out of her own undergraduate observations. Dr. McClintock, 57, has demonstrated chemical communication between humans in laboratory experiments,  again in influencing menstrual cycles.  Whether pheromones play a role in human life outside the lab remains unknown. In animals pheromones affect the whole panoply of behavior  -  mating, aggression and fear. In other work with colleagues, she has proved that rats that fear change have shorter lives than their more flexible counterparts, and that social isolation can also affect the longevity of rodents. Advertisement "I've focused my work on downward causation, the idea that the social and psychological world changes the fundamental mechanisms of biology, and vice versa," Dr. McClintock said on a recent afternoon at her offices at the University of Chicago. "I've tried to situate biology in a rich social and psychological context and make it simple." Advertisement Q. You recently made news with your discovery of an airborne chemical that increases sexual desire in women, a compound usually found in breast-feeding women and their infants. Why is the finding important? A. This is the first natural compound to be found that can increase libido in women, other than hormones. It is also the first found human social chemosignal or pheromone to affect this type of behavior. Until my lab confirmed their existence in humans in 1998, pheromones were only thought to exist in the animal world. Q. Mothers have long maintained that breast-feeding is sexy. Does your research confirm this? A. No, that's a different phenomenon. Here, we were looking at the effect of chemosignals from a breast-feeding woman and her infant on other women who smelled them. It was the non-breast-feeding women who were aroused by the chemosignal. Molecules produced by a person or animal that can change behaviors of others, even though they are not detected as an odor. What we did was that for two months, we exposed nonlactating women to this breast-feeding compound, which is found naturally in nursing mothers and infants. Women with regular sex partners reported a 24 percent increase in sexual desire; those without partners increased their sexual fantasies by 17 percent. Julie Mennella, who studies breast-feeding women, designed the study with me after hearing anecdotes from breast-feeding women suggesting that their ovarian cycles were affected by this. I had observed something similar with rats. From an evolutionary perspective, it made sense that we'd find increased sexual motivation in women who were spending time around lactating mothers and smelling their chemosignals. Childbearing has always been risky and the presence of another breast-feeding woman in your immediate environment is an excellent indicator that now is a good time to conceive your own child. Q. When you published your first scientific paper in 1971 - the one that showed how women living together in a college dormitory tended to synchronize their times of menstruation - it created a huge sensation among scientists. Why so strong an impact? A. Because in the 1970's, it was a new idea that a menstrual cycle could be affected by social interactions. Pheromones happen to be the reasons for that, though there may be other factors involved. I felt that looking at women's menstrual cycles as a purely biological phenomenon, independent of what else women were doing, was wrong. Advertisement In the 1970's, some scientists were only looking at bodily mechanisms. And others were looking at the natural world. I wanted to put everything together. It's pretty obvious that what happens inside the skin is affected by what happens outside, which is why biologists need to work with social scientists. My entire career has been devoted to showing that psychology has a big role in the biological sciences.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Evolutionary biology shows that an organism is selected because of his/her behavioral interactions with the environment. When I first began working, I used to feel like a salmon swimming upstream. But now, this idea of connecting the social with the genetic and everything in between to attack diseases is catching on. Q. Your institute has just received $7.3 million from the federal government to study the social and medical aspects of breast cancer among African-American women who live in the neighborhoods around the University of Chicago. What do you and your colleagues hope to learn from them? A. We have social workers, physicians, psychologists and geneticists looking at different aspects of one question: Why do some African-American and Nigerian women develop a highly aggressive form of breast cancer, which they typically get prior to menopause. White women typically get breast cancer after menopause. Our hypothesis is that some of it comes because of a genetic mutation in black women here and in Nigeria. But that can't be all of it. Less than 25 percent of the women with this cancer have this inherited mutation, according to my colleague Funmi Olopade. So it's dysfunction of the genes that have been activated during the woman's lifetime. What is the route from outside of the body in? My part involves looking at psychological and social factors that might change the genes: loneliness, hypervigilance. In this laboratory, we've shown how rats who suffer hypervigilance and social isolation have shorter lives than those who do not. We want to see if this applies to humans. We want to know what is the psychological state that changes the neuroendrocrine system to the point where it changes the way cancer-promoting genes function. Q. Black writers have long maintained that the everyday indignities of racism can set off illness. Are you trying to use science to prove that? A. We're asking about getting this disease because you feel isolated, or if you get it because the demands in your life outstrip your social supports? Does getting the disease have something to do with the timing of puberty and breast development, something that sets up a risk in the mammary tissue? Is it that the social structure of the household, which is often headed by women, somehow, is changing the biology? I can't give you any answers yet. Q. Your study includes a comparison group of women who live in Nigeria, a society where almost everyone is black. What specifically do you hope to learn from them? A. We're going to Nigeria to look at a population that is black, but isn't in a minority. Life may be stressful there, but nobody is lonely in an African village - or so anthropologists tell me. They may well be lonely after they move into African cities, but we will have to investigate that further. The bottom line is that women in Nigeria also have this genetic mutation and so we can look at isolation and hypervigilance in a context different from that of black Americans. Q. You began your training in the early 1970's, when it was unusual for a woman to enter science. What made you go for a scientific career? Advertisement A. I was, from a very young age, interested in molecular biology. When I was in grade school, my father took me to see Watson and Crick, when they first came out with the double helix. My father was an M.I.T. professor and my mother is a naturalist. When I chose a college, I picked Wellesley because I knew I could get a good education there without the pressures of "girls don't do science." I only ran into discrimination at graduate school - Harvard, where, because I was a woman, I was barred from the stacks at the Widener Library. I remember a moment when the chairman of the psychology department took his first-year students to lunch at the faculty club. I had to sit at a card table in the vestibule because I wasn't allowed into the dining room. But Harvard also gave me the chance to study with E. O. Wilson - a wonderful mentor. Things have changed since then. A woman was just named president of M.I.T. I head an institute here. Culturally, these facts mean that it's now easier for women who are truly interested in science to do it. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »