Advertisement 
Global Health  By                     
 DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.
 
JUNE 22, 2009
 International migrant workers, foreign students and political refugees are often endangered by laws that discriminate against people with AIDS, the advocacy group Human Rights Watch reported last week. About a third of the world’s countries limit the right of people with H.I.V. to enter or stay, even if their disease is under control with drugs. Some restrict their access to health care. The report describes how guest workers from poor countries like the Philippines and Sri Lanka working in wealthy ones like Saudi Arabia may be given mandatory H.I.V. testing — sometimes without their knowledge — and deported, often without being able to claim back wages and sometimes after imprisonment without treatment. The group said the visa restrictions had led people to commit fraud or stop treatment, risking their lives. The report detailed one study in which travelers from Britain stopped taking their AIDS pills or tried to mail them ahead, sometimes unsuccessfully, out of fear that they would be denied visas to the United States if they admitted being infected, or would be searched at the border. Wealthy countries often deport people without considering whether they will have access to medical care elsewhere, the report said. South Korea, for example, has deported hundreds of foreign workers, and some deportees from the United States, especially those with criminal records, have been jailed without treatment and died in custody. The International Organization for Migration estimates 3 percent of the world’s population — 192 million people — live outside the country where they were born. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D6 of the New York edition with the headline: AIDS: Discrimination in Visa Laws Poses Risk To Those With AIDS, Rights Group Says.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »