Advertisement By ERIC NAGOURNEYJUNE 29, 2009
 A new study finds that as the drinking age has gone up, binge drinking has gone down — except among college students. Writing in The Journal of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, researchers said that binge drinking among 18- to 20-year-old men who did not attend college had declined more than 30 percent. But the rate remained steady — and significant — among male college students. And it went up among female students. In 1984, the federal government decided to withhold highway money from any state that did not have a minimum drinking age of 21, and over time all the states fell into line. As a result, public health experts say, highway fatalities have gone down, among other health benefits. Advertisement But some college officials have raised questions about whether the higher age has forced drinking underground and encouraged excessive alcohol use. And some state lawmakers have been taking a new look at the issue.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. For the study, researchers looked at information gathered from 1979 to 2006 by the National Survey on Drug Use and Health about binge drinking, which is defined as having five or more drinks. Advertisement Over all, the researchers, led by Richard A. Grucza of the Washington University medical school, found that binge drinking had gone down — a change they attributed at least in part to the increased drinking age. But if that change has made it harder for high school students to get alcohol, it is less the case for college students. Living in close quarters with someone who can legally buy alcohol, Dr. Grucza said, makes it much more accessible. The study found that almost half  the college men surveyed, and almost 40 percent of the women, had reported engaging in binge drinking. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D6 of the New York edition with the headline: Patterns: Drinking Age Affects Bingeing, to a Point.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »