Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
 HENRY FOUNTAIN
 
JUNE 19, 2009
 Controlling the mosquito that is largely responsible for infecting people with the dengue fever virus isn’t easy. That’s because the bug, Aedes aegypti, has evolved in parallel with humans, living around them and breeding in even the smallest puddles of water — rainwater in a discarded can, say, or the saucer under a flower pot. With so many possible breeding sites, spreading pesticide can be a painstaking, door-to-door activity. But Gregor J. Devine of Rothamsted Research, an agricultural institute in Britain, had a different idea: why not let the mosquitoes do the work? Building on laboratory studies that showed that adult mosquitoes could pick up an insecticide and transfer it, he and his colleagues conducted field experiments in Iquitos, Peru, using pyriproxyfen, a compound that kills larvae but is not harmful to adult mosquitoes (or to people, either, in the amounts used). After having a meal of blood from a human, a female A. aegypti likes to find a dark, damp spot to rest while its eggs develop, buzzing off later to find water to deposit the eggs in. Dr. Devine said the team’s work, described in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, took advantage of this routine. He and his team set up “dissemination stations,” consisting of dark, damp cloths dusted with pyriproxyfen, in the nooks and crannies of aboveground tombs in a cemetery. When a female rested on the cloth, its legs picked up some of the pesticide, which came off when it  landed in a breeding pool. The researchers found that putting stations in as few as 3 percent of the available spots in the cemetery resulted in coverage of almost all the breeding habitats in the immediate area, and mortality of up to 98 percent of the mosquito larvae. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Getting Mosquitoes To Spread Poison To Their Own Larvae.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »