Advertisement By DANA JENNINGSFEB. 15, 2010
 I’ve trudged through Stage 3 prostate cancer and its treatment in good shape. Nearly two years after learning I had cancer, I’m an active 52-year-old, I exercise regularly, my blood tests are where they need to be and my oncologist wants to see me only twice a year. But there is one side effect of my treatment that has proved especially stubborn: erectile dysfunction. After a radical open prostatectomy, radiation and hormone therapy, it’s still difficult to get the old engine of desire to turn over. And now that I’m dosing my post-treatment depression with Zoloft — which also disrupts sexual function — sometimes I can’t even find the key. Oh, and my testosterone level is low, too. I’m not complaining, though. There’s no percentage in being erect and dead. Prostate cancer and its treatment strike men where they live, often causing impotence and incontinence. (My bladder control gradually returned. But I can still be caught off guard by the stray sneaky sneeze.) Advertisement It’s not that I’m ready to fold up my tent. We are sexual creatures, after all, and I am working with my surgeon to reclaim that part of myself. In the past two years, though, I’ve insisted on trying to learn what having cancer could teach me. And here I’m just trying to understand, trying to articulate, what it feels like to be damaged goods in our oversexualized culture. Advertisement We founder in a mere surface culture of smirk, snark and innuendo. The greedy objectification of the body — in both women and men — accelerates, speeding so fast that the objections can’t even be heard over the roar of the mass media. We are told to worship washboard abs and Everest biceps, improbably perky breasts and buns of titanium. It sometimes seems that every image spewed forth by the electronic media resonates with just one unsubtle subtext: sex. Where does that leave a man who has erectile dysfunction? I’m not so much interested in male biophysical mechanics, about Levitra and Viagra and Cialis (an erection that lasts more than four hours? How about four seconds?), about penile injections and pumps. To me, the ads for the magic pills never seem to strike quite the right note. The men often look as furtive as teenagers buying condoms. And the narrators are hushed and ominous, like the voice-over in a campaign attack ad. In the popular mind, manhood and womanhood have become ever more confused with the sexual act. But manhood isn’t about prodigious feats of lovemaking or how many partners you can bed. There are no official standings. True manhood is about love and kindness. It’s about responsibility and honor, about working hard and raising your children the best way you know how, with love, respect and discipline.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Yes, my erectile function is still a work in progress, but I don’t feel diminished; I don’t feel that I’m less of a man. My voice is still as deep as a well, my eyes a steely blue. I still relish a strong stout, and I can hold forth on the arcane points of the safety blitz. (Though sometimes I am tempted to say, “It’s O.K., ladies, I’m harmless.”) Libido comes and goes at odd hours, like a child home on a  college break. But curiously, I feel that the life my wife, Deb, and I lead is more intimate than ever. I was the one who was sick, but we peered into the bleak chasms of cancer together. As I was buffeted by diagnosis, treatment and the aftermath, she was my advocate, my confidante, my unwavering caregiver. And everything she did was suffused by her love for me. Advertisement It was an intimacy beyond words. And believe me, I have a lot to live up to if the time comes for me to care for Deb. True intimacy isn’t about the hydraulics of the flesh. It’s the smell of a certain shampoo in the hair, a passing touch in the kitchen, the taste of cold blueberry soup on a hot summer day, the gentle nostalgia of “Aja” by Steely Dan, and your heart melting at the sight of your wife of 28 years sound asleep after midnight — the murmur of HGTV  having lulled her to slumber. Despite everything that has happened the last couple of years, I’m a lucky man. I love my work, I’m blessed with two fine sons, and I have my compassionate and indispensable wife to snuggle with on these  winter nights. Everything else will mend in its own time. Dana Jennings is a reporter at The New York Times. His postings on coping with prostate cancer are at nytimes.com/well. A version of this article appears in print on February 16, 2010, on Page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: After Surviving Cancer, a Focus on True Manhood.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »