Advertisement OCT. 27, 2014
 The High School Challenge Re “Hard Lesson in Sleep for Teenagers” (Personal Health, Oct. 21): What is a parent supposed to do when a child has to be up at 6:30 a.m. to get to school on time and doesn’t get home until 6 p.m. and then has hours of homework? You can take away all the electronics you want (but not really, as all homework is assigned and submitted online), but if there simply aren’t enough hours in the day and too much homework it becomes a far bigger issue than one individual family.Malka F. Margolies, posted to Facebook Blaming electronics isn’t really fair. I was a teenager when dinosaurs roamed the earth, and I went under my blankets with a flashlight and read books, sometimes into the wee, small hours.Christy Wolfe, posted to Facebook Start high school at 11 a.m. Not only will you address the sleep deprivation issue, you’ll cut back on undesirable activity after school as well. Going to school 11-5 gets kids home close to parents. I promise you, they won’t get up at 7 a.m. to go shoplift at the convenience store — but between 3 and 5 they’re looking for something to get up to.Nuna Bosler, posted to Facebook Global Inequities TO THE EDITOR: Steroids are successfully administered to women in preterm labor here in the United States to effectively speed up their babies’ lung development and have saved the lives of many premature babies. Advertisement The research referenced in “Steroids Are No Boon to World’s Poorer Women” (Global Health, Oct. 21) does not change that practice in the United States or other countries, regardless of their economic standing, where medical care is provided in hospitals or other advanced care settings with neonatal intensive care units. Advertisement However, accelerated development of better-equipped facilities and a stronger, more sustainable maternal and child health infrastructure is sorely needed in many parts of the world. Edward R.B. McCabe, M.D.Jennifer L. HowseWhite Plains, N.Y.Dr. McCabe is chief medical officer and Dr. Howse is president of the March of Dimes Foundation.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Addressing a Gap TO THE EDITOR: “Dentists Open a Closed Door for Autism” (Oct. 21) points to the fact that people with intellectual and developmental disabilities are medically underserved. To address this health inequity, Special Olympics, a global movement that transforms lives through the power and joy of sport, has also become the largest public health organization focused on people with intellectual disabilities. We and our volunteers and supporters offer free health examinations and train health care professionals in seven disciplines, including vision, hearing, dental care and physical therapy. Through this Healthy Athletes program, we’ve learned that 45.7 percent of Special Olympics athletes in the United States have the wrong eyeglass prescriptions, 41.5 percent have a fully or partially blocked ear canal, and, in line with the challenges reported in the Science Times article, 24.6 percent have untreated tooth decay. We provide comprehensive care to correct the distressing status quo behind these statistics through our Healthy Communities program. Our dream for these two programs is that one day they become extinct, because people are finally getting the equitable health care they deserve. Janet FroetscherWashingtonThe writer is chief executive of Special Olympics. · TO THE EDITOR: This article gives good insight into the dental profession’s efforts to give special-needs patients access to care. However, it gives the mistaken impression that it’s possible to provide comprehensive dental care to most autistic patients without anything other than mild behavioral modification techniques. Sadly, this is not the case. The research cited dealt mainly with providing simple dental cleanings to higher-functioning autistic children, which unfortunately are the least of the many challenges facing many autistic dental patients. Some may have had little or no dental care for many years, if ever. Often autistic patients present with multiple, severe problems, some of which cannot wait for the slow desensitizing approach described. Another obstacle to getting treatment for special needs patients is cost, and the severe lack of resources and insurance coverage for the unique treatment requirements of this population. For example, some of these patients require cleanings far more often than every six months, yet little or no coverage is available for the patients’ extra needs. It is imperative that insurance carriers, as well as the federal and state governments, start to recognize the issues involved in treating autistic and other special-needs patients (both children and adults) to enable us to help treat them in an effective, comprehensive manner. Proper treatment early can prevent bigger problems later. Alan N. Queen, D.D.S.QueensThe writer is director of the Special Care Dental Clinic at New York Hospital Queens. Science Times welcomes letters, comments on nytimes.com and social media posts from readers. Email should be sent to scitimes@nytimes.com.  A version of this letter appears in print on October 28, 2014, on Page D3 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »