Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Tunisian Style Baked Cauliflower Frittata By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes  Garlic Shrimp With Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Provençal Greens Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Greens and Chayote Enchiladas With Salsa Verde By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours  Zucchini Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours  Greek Stewed Green Beans and Yellow Squash With Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman About 55 minutes healthy Parsley Hummus By Martha Rose Shulman About 20 minutes healthy Grilled Sardines By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy Green Tomato Frittata By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour healthy Ricotta and Spinach Frittata With Mint By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes healthy Carrot Purée By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Tunisian Style Baked Cauliflower Frittata By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes  Garlic Shrimp With Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Provençal Greens Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Greens and Chayote Enchiladas With Salsa Verde By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours  Zucchini Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours  Greek Stewed Green Beans and Yellow Squash With Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman About 55 minutes healthy Parsley Hummus By Martha Rose Shulman About 20 minutes healthy Grilled Sardines By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy Green Tomato Frittata By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour healthy Ricotta and Spinach Frittata With Mint By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes healthy Carrot Purée By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Tunisian Style Baked Cauliflower Frittata By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes  Garlic Shrimp With Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   This delicate Italian frittata is traditionally made on top of the stove but also works well when baked. 
Featured in: 
Healthier Frittatas, Straight From The Oven. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Gluten Free,
                    Kosher,
                    Low Sugar,
                    Italian,
                    Egg,
                    Ricotta
 By Mark Bittman 20 minutes By Matt Lee And Ted Lee 5 minutes By Melissa Clark 2 hours 30 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman By Nigella Lawson 50 minutes By Mark Bittman 20 minutes By Melissa Clark 45 minutes By The New York Times 50 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Julia Moskin
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.