Advertisement 
Books  By                     
EMILY ANTHES

SEPT. 29, 2014
 Across the United States, laboratory chimps are being sprung from their cages. Last year, the National Institutes of Health announced that it would be retiring most of its chimpanzees and sending hundreds of its hairy, knuckle-walking charges to live out their lives in sanctuaries. Many news organizations, including this one, chronicled this remarkable turnaround, as one of the world’s premier research agencies acknowledged that chimpanzees are not necessary for most biomedical experiments. But even as the captive chimps made headlines, the plight of their endangered wild cousins largely escaped media attention. Wild chimpanzees are “facing catastrophe,” Dr. Nancy J. Merrick writes in this sobering and cleareyed new book. Dr. Merrick, a physician, briefly studied wild chimps in the 1970s, and when she returned to Africa four decades later, she was horrified to discover that ape populations had plummeted. “Among Chimpanzees” is part memoir, part travelogue and part clarion call to action. “At times, it has been overwhelming to see how imminently threatened chimpanzees are in today’s world,” Dr. Merrick writes. “But to allow a world without chimps is unconscionable — so you and I must get involved or risk losing them forever.” In 1970, when she was a senior in high school, Dr. Merrick saw a film about Jane Goodall, a young woman who had gone into the forests of Tanzania — without sophisticated equipment or even a college degree — and promptly began making significant discoveries about our closest living relatives. The young student was enchanted. “As I sat watching,” she recalls, “I was filled with the desire to be in this woman’s place, studying wild chimpanzees.” Advertisement And soon after, she was — one of a handful of Stanford students selected to work as a field assistant on Dr. Goodall’s team. For seven months, she trailed chimps through Gombe Stream National Park in Tanzania, taking meticulous notes on their behavior. The animals were clever and beguiling; the author once watched as a chimp named Mustard used a banana box to trap a pet mongoose that had been terrorizing all of Gombe’s primates — humans and apes alike. Major federal agencies have taken steps toward ending almost all biomedical experimentation on chimpanzees. “As I witnessed the tremendous intelligence and complexity of the chimps, my human-centered worldview was thrown into disarray,” she writes. It was “the beginning of a lifelong fascination with chimps.” After her term at Gombe came to a close, she returned to Stanford and worked with captive chimps before ultimately deciding on a career in medicine. She continued to feel a connection to the animals, however, and in 2008, she took her family on an ape-centered African vacation. Advertisement But during a week they spent volunteering at a chimpanzee sanctuary in Uganda, Dr. Merrick began to wonder about the rise of such wildlife refuges. In the 1970s, there had been just a single chimp sanctuary in all of equatorial Africa. Now there were lots of them, each one teeming with apes. Why had such sanctuaries become necessary, and why were so many chimps ending up there?  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. As she traveled around East Africa in search of answers, she discovered that wild chimps, along with many other great apes, were under assault from all sides: hunted for meat, killed for raiding farmers’ fields, trafficked as exotic pets. Their DNA is similar enough to ours that they are vulnerable to many of the same diseases; Ebola, which is currently making a frightening resurgence in West Africa, has devastated ape populations. Chimps can also get diseases — including tuberculosis, polio, scabies, and dysentery — from us, especially as humans and apes have more frequent encounters. But the greatest threat to chimpanzees is the rapid destruction of their habitat. The forests where they live are being rapidly cleared for timber, farming, and mining, particularly for coltan, an ore used in cellphones and other electronics. “Wilderness areas are disappearing at a rate that most of us simply cannot imagine,” Dr. Merrick writes. The losses squeeze chimps into smaller and smaller territories and fragment their habitats, stranding different chimp communities in islands of forests. Cut off from one another, they are susceptible to inbreeding and at risk of being wiped out by a single accident or outbreak. The news is bleak, but Dr. Merrick believes that it is still possible to build a better future for wild apes. To do so, she argues, we’ll need to recognize that the lives of humans and chimpanzees are intertwined and to implement programs that make life better for members of both species. “Great ape conservation is doomed to failure if it doesn’t also address human need,” she writes, “particularly if locals are living in extreme poverty.” For instance, training farmers in sustainable agricultural techniques — and providing them with funding and support — could keep soils fertile longer, boost crop yields, and increase food security, alleviating the need to transform more forest into farmland. Teaching wildlife poachers new kinds of skills, like beekeeping and carpentry, may give them alternative ways to earn a living. And programs that improve human health also lower the odds that we will pass diseases along to great apes. Dr. Merrick can be overly worshipful of the ape advocates she meets, who are, by turn, “gifted,” “inspirational” and “among the planet’s greatest heroes.” But she cares deeply, and she writes with a justified urgency. “It is not too late to save the great apes,” she writes. But soon, it could be. Emily Anthes is the author of “Frankenstein’s Cat: Cuddling Up to Biotech’s Brave New Beasts.”  A version of this review appears in print on September 30, 2014, on Page D6 of the New York edition with the headline: Visiting an Ailing Relative.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »