Advertisement MARCH 14, 2011
 To the Editor: Re “On the Left Hand, Answers Aren’t Easy” (18 and Under, March 8): As we learn more about left-handedness, old stigmas and misperceptions continue to fade. No longer, I’m reasonably sure, do schools try to make young children write with their right hand. That was what was attempted in my case, but my mother marched into the public school principal’s office and told her, so to speak, “Hands off!” — so a southpaw I have remained. Yet the stigma is still there, and it carries over to other languages. Accordingly, from the French, one is considered “gauche” or “maladroit” when exhibiting clumsiness. It gets worse. In Italian, the word for left is “sinistre.” I’m sure there are other examples, and every one of them deserves to be banished by anybody in his or her right mind. Ed Grimm New York ♦ To the Editor: If only 10 percent of the population is left-handed, why did evolution select a preference for right-handedness? In a fascinating 1983 essay, “The Throwing Madonna,” William H. Calvin proposed that our ancestors developed a preference for throwing with their right arm because it had survival value, whereas throwing with the left arm did not. His argument goes something like this: Throwing stones was an effective technique for hunting small animals. Women not only had to hunt for food, but they also had to care for their infants. Infants cry, which is not a good thing when you are trying to sneak up on an animal, but they can be soothed by the sound of their mother’s heartbeat (this has been confirmed in several laboratory studies). Advertisement Holding infants with the left arm places them nearer to the sound of their mother’s beating heart, keeping the infant quiet, and freeing the right arm for throwing (even today, women, but not men, are more likely to carry their infants with their left arm). Thus, mothers who were genetically predisposed to throw with their right arm were more successful hunters than mothers who held their infants with the right arm and threw with their left, and they survived to pass their right-armed preference on to their offspring. Jeffrey W. Fagen Queens   The writer is dean and professor of psychology, St. John’s College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. Advertisement   Science Times welcomes letters from readers. Those submitted for publication must include the writer’s name, address and telephone number. E-mail should be sent to scitimes@nytimes.com. Send letters to Science Editor, The New York Times, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »