Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

JUNE 14, 2010
 Chickpea flour crêpes make great wrappers for all sorts of fillings. This savory combination of tomato sauce with roasted pepper and goat cheese is easy to make with ingredients you can keep on hand in the refrigerator and pantry. 2 medium-size red bell peppers 1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil 1 small onion, finely chopped 2 to 4 garlic cloves (to taste), minced 1 (28-ounce) can chopped tomatoes, with juice Salt to taste 1/4 teaspoon sugar 1 teaspoon fresh thyme leaves 2 sprigs basil, plus 2 large leaves, chopped or cut in thin slivers Freshly ground pepper 3 ounces goat cheese Advertisement 8 chickpea flour crêpes 1. Roast the bell peppers. When they have cooled, peel, seed and cut in small dice. Set aside. Advertisement 2. Heat the oil in a large, heavy skillet over medium heat, and add the garlic. Cook, stirring, until fragrant, 30 seconds to a minute. Stir in the tomatoes, salt, sugar, thyme and basil sprigs. Bring to a simmer. Stirring often and mashing with the back of your spoon to help break down the tomatoes, simmer until the tomatoes have cooked down and the sauce is thick and fragrant, about 15 minutes. Taste and adjust seasoning with salt and pepper. Remove the basil sprigs, and stir in the diced roasted pepper and chopped fresh basil.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 3. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Oil a baking dish large enough to accommodate all of the rolled crêpes in a single layer. Place about 1/4 cup of the tomato-pepper sauce on the bottom half of each crêpe. Sprinkle a little goat cheese over the sauce. Roll up the crêpe like an enchilada, and place in the pan, seam side down. When all of the crêpes have been filled, cover the dish with foil and heat through in the oven for 20 minutes or until the cheese has softened. Serve hot. Yield: Eight crêpes, serving four. Advance preparation: The crêpes will keep for a couple of days in the refrigerator, and they freeze well. The filling will keep for about three days in the refrigerator. The filled crepes can be kept in a covered baking dish in the refrigerator for a couple of days. They can also be frozen; to reheat, transfer directly from the freezer to the oven, and add 15 minutes to the baking time. Nutritional information per serving: 319 calories; 18 grams fat; 6 grams saturated fat; 118 milligrams cholesterol; 27 grams carbohydrates; 3 grams dietary fiber; 850 milligrams sodium (does not include salt added during cooking); 14 grams protein Martha Rose Shulman can be reached at martha-rose-shulman.com. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »