Advertisement 

 Dennis Overbye
 
 
OUT THERE
SEPT. 15, 2014
 EDINBURGH, Scotland — On Oct. 8 last year, when the Nobel Prize in Physics was to be announced, Peter Higgs decided it would be a good day to get out of town. Unfortunately, his car wasn’t working. He got as far as lunch before a neighbor intercepted him and told him that he had won the prize. “What prize?” he joked. It was in 1964 that Dr. Higgs, then a 35-year old assistant professor at the University of Edinburgh, predicted the existence of a new particle — now known as the Higgs boson, or the “God particle” — that would explain how other particles get mass. Half a century later, on July 4, 2012, he pulled out a handkerchief and wiped away a tear as he sat in a lecture hall at CERN, the European Organization of Nuclear Research in Geneva, and heard that his particle had finally been found. Dr. Higgs, now 85, doesn’t own a television or use email or a cellphone. Not that he is uninterested or uninformed about the world around him. Over lunch recently, he and a colleague, Alan Walker, spent half an hour parsing the implications of Scottish independence from Britain, should voters approve it Thursday. Among other things, Dr. Higgs, a longtime supporter of the Labour Party, pointed out, the departure of Scottish members would leave the British Parliament even more conservative than it is now, although he declined to say how he would vote. Advertisement But his public appearances are as rare and fleeting as the tracks of an exotic particle in the underground detectors of CERN. In a decade of covering the search for the Higgs boson, I had never managed to get a word with Dr. Higgs himself. Advertisement So I reached out to Mr. Walker, a physics professor at Edinburgh who acts as Dr. Higgs’s “digital seeing-eye dog,” in the words of a former student. As a result of his bubblelike existence, Dr. Higgs doesn’t really know how much commotion his award has caused, Mr. Walker said, adding, “I’m his filter.” I found Dr. Higgs looking suitably relaxed and rumpled in a lightweight parka, perusing the menu in a corner of the Cafe Royal, a downtown Victorian bistro. Dr. Higgs said he had adjusted, sort of, to his Nobel celebrity. “I’ve learned to just say no,” he said of people stopping him on the street and asking for a photograph. Dr. Higgs was born in Newcastle-upon-Tyne, England, in 1929, the son of a BBC engineer and a Scottish mother. His interest in physics was tweaked when as a schoolboy in Bristol, he realized he was attending the same school as had Paul Dirac, the British theorist who was the father of quantum field theory, which describes the forces of nature as a game of catch between force-carrying bits of energy called bosons, the same field in which Dr. Higgs would rise to fame. Now retired from the University of Edinburgh, he lives in a fifth-floor walkup in the city’s historic New Town neighborhood, around the corner from the birthplace of James Clerk Maxwell, the 19th-century Scottish theorist. As Mr. Walker, the curator of a new show at the Royal Society of Scotland, “From Maxwell to Higgs,” put it, “Scotland gave England Maxwell, and England gave Higgs to Scotland.” Advertisement It was Maxwell, as a professor at King’s College London, who had accomplished the first great unification of physics, showing that electricity and magnetism were different manifestations of the same force, electromagnetism, that constitutes light. It would be Dr. Higgs’s fate to help physics along the next step toward a theory you could write on a T-shirt: showing that Maxwell’s electromagnetism and the so-called weak force that governs radioactivity are different faces of the same thing. As is often the case in the zigzag progress of science, however, that’s not what Dr. Higgs thought he was doing. When he invented his boson in 1964, he said, “I wasn’t sure it would be important.” He explained, “At the time the thought was to solve the strong force.” According to theory, bosons that carried that force, which holds nuclei together, should be massless, like the photon that transmits light. But while light crosses the universe, the strong force barely reaches across an atomic nucleus, which by quantum rules meant the particle carrying it should be almost as massive as a whole proton. Unfortunately, the theorists could not explain how the carriers of the strong force would acquire such masses. Adapting an idea that Philip W. Anderson of Princeton had used to help explain superconductivity, Dr. Higgs suggested that space was filled with an invisible field of energy, a cosmic molasses. It would act on some particles trying to move through it, sort of like an entourage attaching itself to a celebrity trying to make it to the bar, imbuing them with what we perceive as mass. In some situations, he noted, a bit of this field could flake off and appear as a new particle, what would come to be called the Higgs boson. Detecting this particle would be proof of the pudding that the whole spooky idea was right. His first paper on the subject was rejected. He rewrote it, spicing it up with a new paragraph at the end, emphasizing the prediction of a new particle.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. It turned out that François Englert and Robert Brout of the Free University of Brussels had beaten him into print by seven weeks with the same idea of how mass arose, although they were not as emphatic about the new particle. “They were first,” said Dr. Higgs, adding that he had not known that until told as much by Yoichiro Nambu, who approved Dr. Higgs’s paper for the journal that published it. Shortly thereafter, three more physicists — Tom Kibble of Imperial College London, Carl Hagen of the University of Rochester and Gerald Guralnik of Brown University — chimed in. Dr. Englert shared the Nobel last year with Dr. Higgs; Dr. Brout had died. But Dr. Higgs’s work turned out to be irrelevant to research on the strong force, which was ultimately transformed by the discovery of quarks. Advertisement The physicist Sheldon Glashow, now of Boston University, had proposed a theory in 1961 that unified the weak force and electromagnetic forces, but it had the same problem of explaining why the carriers of the weak part of the “electroweak force” weren’t massless. Dr. Higgs’s magic field would have been just the ticket, but he and Dr. Glashow had just missed each other earlier and didn’t know each other’s work. It was the longest, most costly manhunt in science for an elusive particle that was said to be key to the workings of the universe. For a generation of physicists, it was an appointment with history. One of Dr. Higgs’s duties as a beginning professor at Edinburgh was to supply daily refreshments for a Scottish summer conference in 1960. Dr. Glashow and his friends would stash wine bottles in a grandfather clock and then come back and stay up all night drinking the wine and talking about the electroweak theory while Dr. Higgs was in bed. “I didn’t know they were drinking my wine,” he said. The boson became a big deal in 1967 when Steven Weinberg of the University of Texas at Austin made it the linchpin unifying the weak and electromagnetic forces. It became even bigger in 1971 when the Dutch theorist Gerard ’t Hooft proved that it all made mathematical sense. Dr. Higgs said that Benjamin Lee, a Fermilab physicist who later died in a car crash, first called it the Higgs boson at a conference around 1972, perhaps because Dr. Higgs’s paper was listed first in Dr. Weinberg’s paper. The name stuck, not just to the particle, but to the molasseslike field that produced it and the mechanism by which that field gave mass to other particles — somewhat to the embarrassment of Dr. Higgs and the annoyance of the other theorists. “For a while,” Dr. Higgs said, laughing, “I was calling it the ‘A.B.E.G.H.H.K.H’ mechanism,” reeling off the initials for all those who had contributed to the theory. Interest in the boson, he said, has come and gone in waves. His first round of interviews came in the late 1980s when CERN started up a new accelerator, the Large Electron-Positron collider. There was another round when the L.E.P. was closing down in 2000 despite claims from some scientists that they had seen traces of the Higgs boson. Dr. Higgs said he was skeptical. “They were pushing the machine beyond its limit,” he said. Advertisement By then, Dr. Higgs had given up doing research, concluding that high-energy particle physics had moved beyond him. He was trying to work on a fashionable new theory called supersymmetry that would further advance the unification of forces, but “I kept making silly mistakes,” he said. Indeed, he told the BBC last winter that his lack of productivity probably would have gotten him fired long ago if he had not been nominated for a Nobel Prize. Even before the Nobel sealed his place in history, he had become an Edinburgh tourist attraction, a sort of walking monument to science, winner of the 2011 Edinburgh Award for his “outstanding contribution to the city.” In 1999, he turned down an offer of knighthood but in 2014 was named a Companion of Honor by Queen Elizabeth II. He continued to teach until he retired in 1996, but his lack of research has kept him out of the fray and the fury that has resulted from the discovery of the boson. The Higgs boson was the final piece of what physicists have come to call the Standard Model, which sums up knowledge of the forces and particles of nature. But it is incomplete, not explaining, for example, why there is anything in the universe at all, or what dark matter or dark energy are. Moreover, lacking any evidence for supersymmetry or a more encompassing theory, physicists can’t explain the mass of the Higgs itself, which standard quantum calculations suggest should be almost infinite. This has led some theorists to propose that our universe is only one in an ensemble of universes, the multiverse, in which the value of things like the Higgs is random. Asked about that, Dr. Higgs lit up with a big grin. “I’m not a believer,” he said. “It’s hard enough to have a theory for one universe.” A version of this article appears in print on September 16, 2014, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: A Pioneer as Elusive as His Particle.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »