Advertisement JUNE 14, 2010
 To the Editor: “Daring to Discuss Women in Science” (Findings, June 8): Bravo to John Tierney for bringing up the topic of whether innate differences exist between men’s and women’s aptitude for math and science. He unfortunately failed to point out that if these differences do exist, they should be evident well before seventh grade. I’d be truly convinced only by data that show significant differences in aptitude between boys and girls at age 3 or 4, when they’ve had less opportunity to be affected by our (potentially still-biased) educational system. Josh Miner La Crosse, Wis. ♦ To the Editor: I hold a research position at a top institution in my field, which is particle physics. In all my experiences, I have never seen evidence that women have inferior quantitative skills. However, I have battled the constant message that we are newcomers to the field; from the time I was the only woman in my college math classes to my status of putting off a family to pursue a career track designed for someone with a wife at home. Advertisement Science has a long way to go before it can declare success in gender equality. It hurts me to see this article reinforce negative stereotypes that many, including myself, have worked hard to disprove. Advertisement Lauren Hsu La Grange Park, Ill. ♦ To the Editor: I must have missed all the times when boys are discouraged from going into reading and writing disciplines because girls are better at reading and verbal communication. If you can point to those, then I’ll agree that we should be able to discuss a potential disparity in abilities.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. However, as far as I can tell, Mr. Tierney’s “discussion” is one-sided. I have a Ph.D. in physics, and couldn’t even count the times I was either actively discouraged from continuing or passively told that it was okay if I failed, because physics is hard, especially for girls. Amihan Huesmann Minneapolis ♦ To the Editor: In the event that Lawrence Summers’s hypothesis is correct, and the extreme ends of the intelligence bell curve are more densely populated by men, there is little to be gained by proving it. Such a finding would not be predictive on an individual basis. But it is inevitable that a carefully worded scientific finding, “there are more extremely intelligent men than extremely intelligent women,” would be taken colloquially to mean “men are smarter than women.” For this reason, attempts to investigate innate intellectual differences between the genders — or races, for that matter — inevitably lead to discrimination. Elspeth Green Wilmette, Ill. Science Times welcomes letters from readers. Those submitted for publication must include the writer’s name, address and telephone number. E-mail should be sent to scitimes@nytimes.com. Send letters to Science Editor, The New York Times, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018. A version of this letter appears in print on June 15, 2010, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: Science And Equality.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »