Advertisement By WALECIA KONRADJULY 25, 2011
 In the heat of summer, when yard sales and flea markets are in full swing, it is tempting to take advantage of sidewalk bargains on everything from toys to hedge trimmers. But caution is in order: Buying used can be hazardous to your health, experts say. “There are some things that should simply never be passed on,” said Donald Mays, senior director of product safety at Consumer Reports. The list of items to avoid is a long one, he added. Baby cribs, for instance: From 2007 to 2010, 150 deaths were caused by strangulation or suffocation in unsafe cribs, according to the Consumer Product Safety Commission. Some deaths were caused by so-called drop-side cribs, which allowed parents to lower one side of the crib for easier access; in some terrible instances, infants were trapped in the gap and suffocated. Other deaths were caused by weak mattress supports and soft bedding. In response, the commission issued strict new regulations, which took effect on June 28, prohibiting the sale of all drop-side cribs and ordering manufacturers to strengthen slats and mattress supports, make hardware more durable and subject their products to tougher testing. Advertisement “A missing piece of hardware could over time lead to a gap in a crib which could lead to a baby’s death,” said Scott Wolfson, director of public affairs for the commission. Advertisement Yet despite the regulations, dangerous used cribs may be sold at yard sales and garage sales. As of early July, they were still available on Craigslist and eBay, even some with drop sides. “There’s the law, and then there’s reality,” Mr. Wolfson acknowledged. He said the federal government’s Internet surveillance unit for product safety was working closely with auction sites like eBay to stop the sale of cribs that do not meet the new safety standards. (For more information on the new standards and how to make sure the crib you are buying complies, go to www.cpsc.gov/info/cribs/index.html.) But the availability of unsafe cribs shows that for many consumers, the secondhand shop can be a minefield. Some of the products most likely to cause concern, like cribs, were intended to protect children. Many older car seats for children do not have the latest safety and installation features. In addition, used seats that have been through one crash do not offer the same level of protection in a second crash, Mr. Mays said. But how can you tell whether a child’s car seat may have been weakened in a crash? Used bicycle helmets, for children or adults, are another bad idea. Like car safety seats, once these devices are in a crash, they will no longer provide the full level of protection. And because helmets are frequently exposed to the elements, they deteriorate over time. Ozone and sunlight can degrade the plastic, Mr. Mays said. Luckily, many inexpensive new helmet models offer excellent protection, according to the Bicycle Helmet Safety Institute.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Sometimes even small, seemingly innocuous items can be deadly. Those vending machine and dime store trinkets for children? The ones imported from other countries may be full of lead, cadmium and other toxic materials, according to the safety commission. Advertisement “There’s no guarantee if you buy children’s jewelry used that it won’t contain high levels of toxic materials,” Mr. Mays said. Children often put the jewelry in or close to their mouths, exposing them to the dangerous materials. In 2006, a child died because he swallowed jewelry that was nearly pure lead, Mr. Wolfson said. The commission has recorded more than 50 recalls involving more than 180 million pieces of children’s jewelry because of excessive lead alone. On June 1, customs officials in Chicago seized a large shipment of contaminated children’s jewelry from China. The safety commission prohibits the sale of recalled products or any toys or children’s jewelry with unsafe levels of lead. But these rules are extremely hard to police at thrift stores, tag sales and other places where used items are sold. According to Stacy Genovese, technical director of the Good Housekeeping Research Institute, the list of secondhand items to avoid includes plasticware used to store or reheat food, which may contain toxic chemicals; toys made before the early 1970s, which may be covered in lead paint; and, more obviously, mattresses and pillows, which may host bedbugs and dust mites. Mr. Mays advises shoppers to do their own investigating before buying used. No matter what type of product you are considering, always check to see if the model has undergone a recall. In the past few weeks thousands of power garden trimmers have been recalled because of blade detachments or because fuel leaks out of the machines, potentially causing burns and fires. The only good health news from the yard sale: In many cases, the manufacturer of a recalled product will replace it or send parts that will fix the problem, even if the product was bought used. To see if a product you are considering buying or have already bought used might pose a health hazard, go to www.cpsc.gov/cpscpub/prerel/prerel.html?tab=recalls. And don’t hesitate to ask questions of the previous owner. Often people are forthcoming, and you may find the product has a history you don’t care to inherit. A version of this article appears in print on July 26, 2011, on Page D6 of the New York edition with the headline: Bargains on Used Goods May Prove Costly.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »