Advertisement By THE NEW YORK TIMESJULY 21, 2014
 Medical Mistakes Waiting for an Apology TO THE EDITOR: I appreciate the ethical and perhaps legal questions Abigail Zuger raises in “Saying Sorry, but for What?” (Hard Cases, July 15), but it was hard for me to get past the paragraphs about preventable errors and the benefits, emotionally and financially (for the institutions), of apologies. Our family’s experience — and the experience of so many others who tell me their stories — looks more like denial of preventable mistakes. After the clinical staff at a well-known hospital validated the concerns I shared and began to work at making some changes, the claims department dismissed all the concerns as “unfortunate miscommunication.” No apology, no frank and open dialogue and no amicable ending. “Sorry” may work in these kinds of situations, but no one I know has ever heard the word. Carol Coven Grannick”Evanston, Ill. Contraception A Significant Downside TO THE EDITOR: “New Contraceptive Shot Being Released in Africa” (Global Health, July 15) neglects to point out the continuing controversy about the safety of Depo-Provera. Depo-Provera may be associated with a doubling of the risk of H.I.V. transmission and acquisition. Given that sub-Saharan Africa has the highest prevalence of H.I.V. in the world, promoting Depo-Provera may entail significant health risks. For this reason, the government of South Africa is phasing out Depo-Provera in its family planning program. Betsy HartmannAnne Hendrixson Amherst, Mass. The writers lead the Population and Development Program at Hampshire College. Advertisement Medication Dosing Dangers Re “A Spoonful of Medicine May Put Children at Risk” (Family, July 15): If the prescription says to give “5 somethings” and the dosing syringe is marked in the same somethings, even the least educated parent can match 5 to 5. But I’m a native English speaker, a practiced cook and scientifically literate, and I still have to look twice at tsp. and tbsp. to figure out what a recipe is calling for. I’d hate to have my child’s life depend on my ability to distinguish them at 3 a.m.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Adina, of Ohio, posted to nytimes.com Can we finally move to the metric system? MMc, of Sacramento, posted to nytimes.com Advertisement Infectious Diseases A Mystery of Leprosy TO THE EDITOR: “Leprosy, Still Claiming Victims” (July 1) contains a wealth of useful information. However, as a physician who has spent the past 40 years treating and studying the disease, I must disagree with the statement, “Of the 200 cases of leprosy diagnosed annually in the United States, most are thought to stem from contact with armadillos.” The medical world still does not know exactly how leprosy is transmitted. There have been a few case reports of armadillo handlers in the Southwest contracting leprosy. But the New York Hansen’s Disease Clinic at Bellevue Hospital Center, where I am an attending physician, is treating more than 200 people for leprosy, and from what we know, none of them have had contact with armadillos. Again, my colleagues and I are thankful for the attention brought to this disease, which is not yet a thing of the past. We continue to see new cases, some of which go undiagnosed for years because of the lack of attention paid to leprosy. William Levis, M.D.Manhattan Science Times welcomes letters, comments on nytimes.com and social media posts from readers. Email should be sent to scitimes@nytimes.com. A version of this letter appears in print on July 22, 2014, on Page D6 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »