Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
 HENRY FOUNTAIN
 
JULY 27, 2009
 Say you’re a scientist trying to study the effects of human-produced noise on bird communities in the wild — an interesting topic given how dependent birds are on vocal communication. You could choose a study area near a highway, perhaps, but that creates a problem: how to isolate the effects of noise from other effects, like the death of the occasional animal that strays onto the road. For Clinton D. Francis, a doctoral student at the University of Colorado, the solution was an area with plenty of noise but no traffic (or much else, either). The study sites were in a piñon-juniper woodland in northwestern New Mexico that is home to many natural-gas wells. Some of the wells  have huge compressors that run constantly and sound like jet engines. “They’re definitely loud enough that you need ear protection if you spend even a few minutes near them,” Mr. Francis said. Mr. Francis, with Alexander Cruz of the University of Colorado and Catherine P. Ortega of Fort Lewis College, counted bird nests near compressor sites and near quiet wells that lacked compressors. Unlike some earlier studies of the effects of road noise, they found no difference in the density of birds at both kinds of sites. But the noise did keep some kinds of birds away: the quiet sites had nests of 32 species, while only 21 species were found at compressor sites. The findings were reported in Current Biology. The researchers also studied reproductive success — how many eggs, hatchlings and fledglings were produced at the nests. Mr. Francis said he expected that the birds at noisy sites would have less reproductive success because they would not be able to hear the sounds of predators as they approached. But the study found that noisy sites were actually more productive,  probably because the major predatory bird in the area, the Western scrub jay, doesn’t appear to like noise either. Very few of them were found at the noisy sites. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Some Birds Thrive In Noisy Neighborhoods.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »