Advertisement By PAULINE W. CHEN, M.D.JULY 23, 2009
 Like most doctors I know, every time I see a patient in clinic, questions scroll down my mind’s eye like credits at the end of a movie. Over the years, I have whittled down the number of questions, from the exhausting repertoire I memorized as a medical student to the streamlined clinical checklist I use today. Some of the questions I ask are generic: What brings you here today? What medications are you taking? Some are specialized: Was your liver transplant done “piggy back”? Have you had any episodes of rejection? But a few of the questions have nothing to do with the work I do or the care I am trained to offer. Rather, they are questions about being well and preventing disease: Are you exercising? Do you smoke? Have you had a mammogram? For years I believed that this last group of questions was a clinician’s equivalent of performing a good deed. After all, discussing such topics could help a patient avoid the kind of potentially preventable diseases I had seen other patients suffer from. And since I knew that countless health care resources had been depleted while caring for those patients, I also couldn’t help but feel as if bringing up these questions with patients, however briefly, was like contributing to some greater public good. Any kind of preventive care that I could offer as a doctor, I believed, had to save money. But it turns out that at least one of my assumptions — that I could help to save money — was erroneous. Sort of. Advertisement In the enormous pie that makes up health care expenditures, only 1 to 3 percent can be attributed to preventive interventions. The miniscule size of this share is due in part to the fact that very few clinical preventive services actually result in savings. In fact, the data for savings is so lackluster that some economists have argued that it is less cost-effective to prevent illness than it is to simply let people get sick. Other economists have taken that argument even further, contending that preventive care adds to societal costs by extending lives and thus the time we must care for people (though one would hope that costly treatments might result in the same “problem”). Advertisement But according to Dr. Steven H. Woolf, a professor of family medicine at the Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond and a leading expert on preventive care, all of these assertions are premised on the wrong question. In a commentary published earlier this year in The Journal of the American Medical Association, Dr. Woolf maintains that the economic argument for disease prevention rests not on how much people save but on how much value they gain for each dollar spent. “Health is a good, like food or gas,” Dr. Woolf said. “When you go to a grocery store or gas up a car, you don’t ask whether it will produce a net savings. You don’t expect the cashier to give you money back. The more appropriate question is whether we are getting good value for the money we’re spending.” To help determine value, Dr. Woolf utilizes a unit of measurement — the Quality Adjusted Life Year, or QALY. QALY has been used historically in studies to assess the relative value of different interventions, with each intervention carrying a “price tag” or a rough estimate of the cost to save a comparable year of life. Viewed in terms of QALY value then, there are indeed some clinical preventive services that confer few health benefits for the amount of money spent. But several preventive interventions turn out to be downright bargains. Childhood immunizations and smoking cessation cost so little per QALY (less than $5,000 per QALY gained) that they may actually end up yielding net savings. Other preventive services, like taking aspirin daily if you are at high risk for cardiovascular disease, cost roughly a third to a fifth of more expensive disease interventions that are now routinely paid for, like angioplasty, the procedure that widens or “roto-rooters” narrowed heart vessels. There is also value added beyond these cost efficiency calculations. Last fall, the National Commission on Prevention Priorities found that by increasing just five preventive services, clinicians could save more than 100,000 lives per year. These services include breast cancer screening in women 40 and older, flu immunizations in adults 50 and over, colorectal cancer screening in adults 50 and over, smoking cessation counseling, and a daily aspirin in high risk cardiovascular patients. Much of the responsibility of these preventive services currently rests on clinicians’ shoulders. This focus has contributed in part to the poor data regarding preventive medicine’s results, since relying on clinical settings alone is a relatively inefficient way of changing health behaviors and preventing illness. “Putting it all on doctors and the clinical setting is not a powerful formula,” Dr. Woolf noted. “What is unique about prevention is that so much is happening outside of the clinical setting. Good preventive care requires breaking down the boundaries and getting beyond the constraints of a doctor’s appointment. It requires thinking more broadly in terms of a community-based approach.” It is in this way that preventive medicine offers an additional public good: the potential to strengthen and broaden how we define the patient-doctor relationship.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. To that end, Dr. Woolf and his colleagues recently spearheaded a program using electronic medical records to link nine physician practices to several community services that offered telephone and group counseling services. “If their patients who smoked were interested,” Dr. Woolf said, “doctors could click a button and auto-enroll the patient with the state’s quit smoking line. Two days later, those patients would receive a call to enroll.” Dr. Woolf’s group created similar electronic links to Weight Watchers and to Alcoholics Anonymous. Advertisement These quick and reliable connections between physicians and community-based programs resulted in significant improvements for patients and a higher rate of referrals from doctors. “It’s not feasible for doctors to offer intensive smoking cessation counseling in 15 minutes and to be there through the whole process,” Dr. Woolf said. “The barriers to change are at home, work, school, the store. That’s where people need help with behavior change. The last physician or emergency room visit only goes so far.” Such connections are even more critical for patients with chronic diseases, since these individuals often have complicated care plans and can benefit tremendously from increased coordination with preventive and caregiving resources in the community. All of these links, however, require additional outside support, at least initially. “What is needed is a third party,” Dr. Woolf said, “individuals apart from the busy physicians or busy community organizations who can work out the logistical details. Once you have done that, it takes literally seconds to connect the dots for patients.” But as long as the focus is on savings and not on value, such support is not likely to be forthcoming, and preventive care stands to remain a nearly negligible part of our health care expenditures. “Community health and wellness have been pushed aside in the health care reform debate partly because we have been focused on net savings, not value,” Dr. Woolf observed. “That analysis has not been favorable with preventive medicine, so people continue to get highly expensive studies and procedures that are ineffective, even though we have cost-effective public health interventions at our fingertips.” “It’s as if our house is going up in flames,” Dr. Woolf continued. “There is one room, filled with explosives, that hasn’t yet caught on fire. But people are hesitating to put out the fire because they believe they don’t have the data.” Join the discussion on the Well blog, “The Value of Prevention.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »