Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
 HENRY FOUNTAIN
 
JUNE 8, 2009
 If you are a female Soay sheep-to-be in the womb, you’re better off if you’re developing alongside another female than a male. That’s the conclusion of a study in Biology Letters that looked at the short- and long-term effects of sexual conflict in developing twins. The work, by Peter Korsten of the University of Edinburgh and colleagues, made use of two decades of data from an unmanaged population of Soay sheep that had been closely monitored on the Scottish island of Hirta. Because males and females differ morphologically and physiologically, they can have different needs as they are developing. Males are often bigger, for example, so they can require more energy. In mammals that produce multiple offspring, the differences can lead to competition for resources in the womb. The Soay sheep on Hirta  produce twins only about 25 percent of the time; the other births are all singletons. And among twin births, the researchers found no discernible impact when the twins were of the same sex. But when a female and male shared the womb, females were about 10 percent lighter at birth than females from a same-sex womb. Developing in a mixed-sex womb resulted in another difference, over the longer term: the researchers found that these females produced fewer lambs over their lifetimes, on average, than other females. Developing males produce and require more testosterone than females, and this hormone can pass through fetal membranes. So in a mixed-sex womb, the female may be exposed to more testosterone, which in some species can slow  their maturation and shorten their reproductive life. But the researchers found no indication that this was the case among Soay sheep. The impact on females, they suggest,  probably comes from  the fact that developing males are bigger and thus use more of the resources available in the womb. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D3 of the National edition with the headline: In the Womb, Male Sheep Take More Than Their Share.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »