Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

MAY 24, 2010
 This recipe is inspired by a Spanish dish that’s made with the flat green beans that we call romanos. Those beans aren’t yet in season here, but the dish is just as delicious made with other varieties of green beans, like Blue Lake. 3/4 pound green beans, trimmed and broken in half 1 pound red waxy potatoes, scrubbed and cut in 2-inch wedges 2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 2 to 3 large garlic cloves (to taste), minced Salt and freshly ground pepper to taste 2 hardboiled eggs, diced (optional) 1. Steam the green beans above 1 inch of boiling water for four to five minutes until tender. Remove from the steamer, and rinse with cold water. Set aside. Add the potatoes, and steam for 10 to 15 minutes until tender. Advertisement 2. Heat the oil over medium heat in a large, nonstick skillet. Add the garlic, and cook for a minute or so until the garlic is fragrant. Stir in the beans and cook, stirring, for three minutes until quite tender and coated with oil (but still bright green).  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 3. Gently stir in the potatoes, and add salt and pepper. Cook, stirring, until they begin to color lightly. Scatter the diced hard-boiled eggs over the top, cover and turn heat to low. Cook another three minutes. Serve hot or warm. Advertisement Yield: Serves four. Advance preparation: Because this dish is good at room temperature or hot, you can make it several hours ahead. The color of the beans will fade. The steamed green beans and potatoes will keep for three or four days in the refrigerator. Nutritional information per serving: 168 calories; 7 grams fat; 1 gram saturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 25 grams carbohydrates; 5 grams dietary fiber; 12 milligrams sodium (does not include salt added during cooking); 4 grams protein Martha Rose Shulman can be reached at martha-rose-shulman.com. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »