Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

MAY 10, 2010
 This looks like a lot of salad to squeeze between two hamburger buns — but persist. Once you wrap the sandwich, the salad will compress. It makes a beautiful and delicious lunch, and it keeps well. If you can find jarred sweet, thin-fleshed red piquillo peppers, use them. But regular roasted red peppers will suffice, too. 1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice Salt and freshly ground pepper 1 small garlic clove, finely chopped or pureed 1/4 teaspoon Dijon mustard, plus extra for the bread 1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil 2 cups (about 2 ounces) baby spinach, washed and dried 2 roasted red piquillo peppers, or 1 small red bell pepper, roasted, seeded and cut in wide strips 1 ounce soft goat cheese Advertisement 2 whole wheat or whole wheat sesame hamburger buns 1. Whisk together the lemon juice, salt, pepper, garlic, mustard and olive oil.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 2. Place the spinach in a bowl, and toss with the dressing to coat thoroughly. 3. Spread a little mustard over the bottom half of each hamburger bun. Spread half the goat cheese over each bottom bun and the other half over the top buns. Make a layer of half the spinach salad on the bottom buns. Press down, and layer the roasted pepper over the spinach. Layer the remaining spinach salad over the peppers, and top with the other half of the hamburger buns. Press down and wrap tightly in plastic. Allow to sit for 10 to 15 minutes, or for several hours in the refrigerator, before eating. Yield: Two servings. Advance preparation: This will keep for a day in the refrigerator. Nutritional information per sandwich: 430 calories; 22 grams fat; 6 grams saturated fat; 13 milligrams cholesterol; 45 grams carbohydrates; 6 grams dietary fiber; 635 milligrams sodium (does not include salt added during cooking); 15 grams protein Advertisement Martha Rose Shulman can be reached at martha-rose-shulman.com. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »