Advertisement NOV. 29, 2010
 To the Editor: “Florida Keys Declare Open Season on the Invasive Lionfish” (Nov. 23) should have given more emphasis to an important fact about this species: it can be highly poisonous, with no known antivenom. When we lived in Hollywood, Fla., back in the ’90s, my then-husband and I purchased a lionfish for our saltwater aquarium. While cleaning the tank, he was stung in the palm by a quill. He was not a person to react to bites and stings — bees, wasps, fire ants and jellyfish never gave him much trouble. But in less than three minutes his hand blew up like a catcher’s mitt, his breathing became extremely labored and he almost passed out. He ended up spending three days in the hospital, during which he experienced the initial sting reaction two more times. Advertisement The article notes that lionfish “are considered excellent eating.” That could tempt amateurs to try to catch them — a potentially fatal mistake.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Stephanie Kiyak Dunkirk, N.Y. ♦ To the Editor: The headline “Florida Keys Declare Open Season on the Invasive Lionfish” incorrectly suggests that there is a closed season, when the species is off limits to fishing. Advertisement You may have intended “open season” metaphorically, but context matters. Would you casually say “stop the presses” to a Times printing supervisor when all you wanted was to get his attention? Few (I hope) would break out the nets if an October headline mentioned “open season on moderate congressmen.” But in the context of a story about free-living animals, any hunter, trapper or fisherman (recreational or commercial) knows exactly what “open season” means and who has the authority to declare or enforce one. Matthew K. Chew Tempe, Ariz. The writer is assistant research professor, Arizona State University School of Life Sciences. Science Times welcomes letters from readers. Those submitted for publication must include the writer’s name, address and telephone number. E-mail should be sent to scitimes@nytimes.com. Send letters to Science Editor, The New York Times, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018. A version of this letter appears in print on November 30, 2010, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: The Fish That Roared.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »