Advertisement By C. CLAIBORNE RAYOCT. 18, 2010
 Q. I’ve heard that if a penny is dropped from the Empire State Building it could kill someone. But what about hail? It’s often much larger and falls from much higher, so why do I never hear about any deaths caused by it? A. Hail can cause human fatalities, but does not usually do so, according to the National Severe Storms Laboratory of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. While one hail event in India in 1888 caused 246 deaths, this was truly exceptional. In the United States, most years see no deaths at all, though one or two are very rarely reported. It has been suggested that one reason for this is that Americans spend less time out in the open than people who live in regions like northern India where hail is a greater risk to human life. Another important factor is that hail does not fall uninterrupted from the high reaches of the atmosphere, but is tossed up and down by the winds of a thunderstorm, bumping into raindrops and other hailstones, a process that slows the fall. The winds also frequently make the hailstones fall at an angle. The friction with other precipitation deforms a hailstone from a perfect sphere, making its velocity hard to calculate when it does become heavy enough to fall to earth. One estimate is that a half-inch stone falls about 30 feet a second, while a three-inch stone falls nearly 160 feet a second. C. CLAIBORNE RAY  An answer in the Q&A column on Oct. 19 about the hazards of hail  misstated the year that a hailstorm in India caused 246 deaths. It was  1888, not 1988. Readers are invited to submit questions by mail to Question, Science Times, The New York Times, 620 8th Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018, or by e-mail to question@nytimes.com.  A version of this article appears in print on October 19, 2010, on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: Stone Power.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »