Advertisement By TARA PARKER-POPEDEC. 13, 2010
 In recent years, women have heard only bad news about the use of estrogen and progestin to ease symptoms of menopause. In 2002, researchers halted a major government study of so-called combination therapy, part of the Women’s Health Initiative, when women taking these hormones were shown to have a higher risk of breast cancer, heart attack and stroke. Frightened women abandoned hormones in droves. But now a controversial new review of data suggests some good news: certain women who take estrogen alone, without progestin, to treat menopause symptoms may actually be protected from breast cancer. The review, released last week during a poster session at the San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium, drew immediate criticism from researchers who said it was merely a rehash of old data. But the oncologist behind the report, Dr. Joseph Ragaz, a clinical professor at the University of British Columbia, said the evidence that estrogen can protect against breast cancer had been largely ignored, and that it was time to shine a spotlight on the findings. “The data were absolutely missed. They weren’t emphasized, and they weren’t brought to the attention of oncologists,” said Dr. Ragaz, who said he had no ties to any drug firms. “These data are nevertheless very much important because they add to the evidence for estrogen being protective.” Advertisement The part of the Women’s Health Initiative that was halted in 2002 involved 17,000 women taking combination therapy. But a second part involved about 10,000 women who had undergone hysterectomies and took only estrogen or a placebo. (Progestin is taken to counteract harmful effects of estrogen on the uterus.) Advertisement The estrogen-alone study was stopped early, in 2004, before estrogen’s effects could be fully evaluated. But in additional analyses published in The Journal of the American Medical Association in 2004 and 2006, and reviewed again at the San Antonio conference, researchers showed statistically meaningful data suggesting that taking estrogen significantly lowered the risk of breast cancer in certain women. For instance, among 8,500 women with no family history of the disease, use of estrogen lowered breast cancer risk by 32 percent, compared with similar women taking a placebo. Among the 7,600 women with no history of benign breast disease, like lumps or cysts, those taking estrogen had a 43 percent lower risk of  breast cancer.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Nobody is suggesting women should start using estrogen to prevent breast cancer. But the accruing data should be reassuring to women who have had hysterectomies and are taking estrogen to relieve menopause symptoms. (Up to a third of postmenopausal women have undergone hysterectomies.) More important, these analyses suggest a promising new area of research for breast cancer prevention. Unfortunately, say Dr. Ragaz and other experts, ever since the 2002 Women’s Health Initiative results were released, funding for new estrogen research has all but dried up. “I think the findings are intriguing,” said Dr. JoAnn Manson, a Women’s Health Initiative investigator and chief of preventive medicine at Harvard’s Brigham and Women’s Hospital. “They are still preliminary, but the real implication would be in developing new strategies for breast cancer prevention, and building on these findings to understand why estrogen alone appears to be reducing the risk of breast cancer. “ However, other investigators were critical of the review. “There is absolutely nothing new here that the entire medical and scientific community haven’t taken in and digested,” said Dr. Rowan T. Chlebowski, a professor of medicine at the University of California, Los Angeles. It is not clear why women who were taking only estrogen were protected from breast cancer, but it may be that estrogen treatment blocks the effects of a woman’s natural estrogen, much like the estrogen-blocking drug tamoxifen. “It really was not given sufficient attention in 2004 and in 2006 when the more detailed paper came out,” Dr. Manson said. “All the focus on hormone therapy was on the risk, and the estrogen-plus-progestin results got more attention.” A version of this article appears in print on December 14, 2010, on Page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: Old Data, New Claim: Debating Estrogen.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »