Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu.  Goat cheese filling for ravioli By Craig Claiborne And Pierre Franey 15 minutes  Deep Purple Blueberry Smoothie With Black Quinoa By Martha Rose Shulman 5 to 10 minutes  Whole Wheat Sesame Rings (Simit) By Martha Rose Shulman About 5 hours (30 minutes active work)  Smoked Sardines Rillettes By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes  Walnut Apricot Bundt Cake By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours  Cauliflower and Tomato Frittata With Feta By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Marinated Goat Cheese By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes, plus several hours' steeping healthy Tomato and Goat Cheese Tart By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 10 minutes  Quiche With Herbs and Goat Cheese By David Tanis About 1 hour, with pre-made dough healthy Baked Lentils With Goat Cheese By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour  Baked Figs and Goat Cheese By David Tanis 25 minutes   Goat cheese filling for ravioli By Craig Claiborne And Pierre Franey 15 minutes  Deep Purple Blueberry Smoothie With Black Quinoa By Martha Rose Shulman 5 to 10 minutes  Whole Wheat Sesame Rings (Simit) By Martha Rose Shulman About 5 hours (30 minutes active work)  Smoked Sardines Rillettes By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes  Walnut Apricot Bundt Cake By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours  Cauliflower and Tomato Frittata With Feta By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Marinated Goat Cheese By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes, plus several hours' steeping healthy Tomato and Goat Cheese Tart By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 10 minutes  Quiche With Herbs and Goat Cheese By David Tanis About 1 hour, with pre-made dough healthy Baked Lentils With Goat Cheese By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour  Baked Figs and Goat Cheese By David Tanis 25 minutes   Goat cheese filling for ravioli By Craig Claiborne And Pierre Franey 15 minutes  Deep Purple Blueberry Smoothie With Black Quinoa By Martha Rose Shulman 5 to 10 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   Crepes make delicious, easy finger foods. Cut them in half, top with a filling, then fold them in half and again in half, so they’re like little coronets. These thin pancakes are easy to make in today’s heavy nonstick crepe pans. Give the batter plenty of time to rest so that the flour swells and softens; that will make the crepes delicate.   
Featured in: 
Healthy Holiday Appetizers. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    French,
                    Egg,
                    Fresh Herb,
                    Goat Cheese
 By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour, plus 30 minutes’ resting By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 10 minutes By Tamar Adler 10 minutes By Jacques Pépin 35 minutes By Nigella Lawson 45 minutes By Julia Moskin about 2 hours By David Tanis 30 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.