Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Raspberry Crumble By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 45 minutes Trending Stir-Fried Beef and Sugar Snap Peas By Melissa Clark 30 minutes Trending Lemon-Spice Visiting Cake By Dorie Greenspan 1 hour 25 minutes Trending Jonathan Waxman’s Roast Chicken By Glenn Collins About 45 minutes Trending Strawberry Cassata By David Tanis 1 1/2 hours, plus chilling Trending Salty-Sweet Salmon With Ginger and Spicy Cucumber Salad By Amanda Hesser 3 hours 30 minutes, plus overnight soaking of ginger Trending Salmon Roasted in Butter By Mark Bittman 15 minutes healthy Quinoa and Squash Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman 50 minutes healthy Pear Ginger Crumble By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Fruit Crumble With Quinoa-Oat Topping By Martha Rose Shulman 3 hours healthy Berry-Rose Crumble By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes healthy Quinoa-Oat Crumble Topping By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes healthy Raspberry Crumble By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 45 minutes Trending Stir-Fried Beef and Sugar Snap Peas By Melissa Clark 30 minutes Trending Lemon-Spice Visiting Cake By Dorie Greenspan 1 hour 25 minutes Trending Jonathan Waxman’s Roast Chicken By Glenn Collins About 45 minutes Trending Strawberry Cassata By David Tanis 1 1/2 hours, plus chilling Trending Salty-Sweet Salmon With Ginger and Spicy Cucumber Salad By Amanda Hesser 3 hours 30 minutes, plus overnight soaking of ginger Trending Salmon Roasted in Butter By Mark Bittman 15 minutes healthy Quinoa and Squash Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman 50 minutes healthy Pear Ginger Crumble By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Fruit Crumble With Quinoa-Oat Topping By Martha Rose Shulman 3 hours healthy Berry-Rose Crumble By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes healthy Quinoa-Oat Crumble Topping By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes healthy Raspberry Crumble By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 45 minutes Trending Stir-Fried Beef and Sugar Snap Peas By Melissa Clark 30 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   At a farmers’ market, seek out sweet plums, ripe but firm, for this dazzling crumble. I also like a reddish, pink-fleshed hybrid called a plumcot, which is an apricot-plum hybrid. Plums are high in antioxidants called phenols, a very good source of vitamin C and, to a lesser extent, of vitamin A, riboflavin and potassium. 
Featured in: 
For Desserts Without Gluten, Crumbles Take The Cake. 
   
Healthy
 By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour By Matt Lee And Ted Lee 1 hour By Amanda Hesser About 1 hour By Melissa Clark About 2 hours, plus 1 to 1 1/2 hours’ chilling and baking By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus several hours of chilling By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour, plus 4 hours' marinating Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Tejal Rao
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.