Advertisement By NICHOLAS BAKALAROCT. 4, 2010
 The first scientific description of measles dates from the ninth century, and the disease was first mentioned in The New-York Daily Times on Oct. 14, 1851, when the newspaper was not yet one month old. A front-page “Weekly Report of Deaths” that day noted that the disease had killed two people in Brooklyn. Other front-page news on Oct. 14: A man tied his foot to a hot-air balloon and dangled above the streets of Paris. (Parisians, apparently easier to impress than they are today, were “tickled with each repetition of the spectacle.”) The first measles preventive mentioned in The Times, on Feb. 10, 1924, was an account of the advice of one Dr. William H. Park, who had concluded that if one member of a family contracted the disease, it could be prevented in the rest “by injecting into the veins a few drops of blood taken from any other convalescent person within six days after recovery.” The Times reported no evidence that the procedure worked, but on May 14, 1944, in a “Science in Review” roundup, Waldemar Kaempffert wrote that researchers had found a “new weapon against measles,” gamma globulin, a blood protein that contains antibodies and is still used today in the treatment of some diseases. A small study “at a girls’ college in the East,” the report said, demonstrated that injections of the substance could prevent the disease. Advertisement Gamma globulin became widely used, but it was only partly effective. On Nov. 29, 1958, The Times reported that there were 410 measles deaths the previous year, nearly twice the number caused by polio. “The Salk polio vaccine was largely responsible,” the Associated Press dispatch said. “There is no measles vaccine.” Advertisement But there would be one soon. On Oct. 4, 1960, The Times reported that a vaccine developed by Dr. John F. Enders of Harvard and colleagues, using the measles virus itself, was being tested in New York City. With what today would appear as serene indifference, the reporter wrote that it was being given to 1,500 “retarded children” at the Willowbrook School on Staten Island, in addition to 4,000 children in Nigeria, where the disease was epidemic. By  Sept. 17, 1961, The Times was ready to announce that the vaccine had “proved itself 100 per cent effective” in preventing measles and hailed Dr. Enders’s “triumph” as  “one of the great achievements of medicine.” In a letter to the editor on Oct. 1, Dr. Enders refused to accept credit for himself, acknowledging six other scientists and adding, with becoming modesty, “To me it seems most desirable that the collaborative character of these investigations should be understood, not solely for personal reasons but because much of all modern medical research is conducted in this way.” NICHOLAS BAKALAR   A version of this article appears in print on October 5, 2010, on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: Measles Vaccine, 1960.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »