Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. easy Green Beans Provencal By Marian Burros 15 minutes  Greek Stewed Green Beans and Yellow Squash With Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman About 55 minutes  Spring Ramen Bowl With Snap Peas and Asparagus By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours  Braised Halibut With Asparagus, Baby Potatoes and Saffron By Martha Rose Shulman 35 minutes easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking  Apple and Swiss Chard Pie By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus resting  Pasta With Green Beans And Potatoes With Pesto By Nancy Harmon Jenkins 30 minutes  Risotto With Parsnips and Greens By David Tanis About 40 minutes healthy Rice Sticks With Walnut and Basil Pesto and Green Beans By Martha Rose Shulman 35 minutes healthy Pasta With Salsa Crudo and Green Beans By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes  Green Beans With Lemon By Mark Bittman 15 minutes easy Green Beans Provencal By Marian Burros 15 minutes  Greek Stewed Green Beans and Yellow Squash With Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman About 55 minutes  Spring Ramen Bowl With Snap Peas and Asparagus By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours  Braised Halibut With Asparagus, Baby Potatoes and Saffron By Martha Rose Shulman 35 minutes easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking  Apple and Swiss Chard Pie By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus resting  Pasta With Green Beans And Potatoes With Pesto By Nancy Harmon Jenkins 30 minutes  Risotto With Parsnips and Greens By David Tanis About 40 minutes healthy Rice Sticks With Walnut and Basil Pesto and Green Beans By Martha Rose Shulman 35 minutes healthy Pasta With Salsa Crudo and Green Beans By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes  Green Beans With Lemon By Mark Bittman 15 minutes easy Green Beans Provencal By Marian Burros 15 minutes  Greek Stewed Green Beans and Yellow Squash With Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman About 55 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   This is a luxurious risotto, enriched with pesto at the end of cooking. This time I used pumpkin seeds for the pesto, with terrific results. They contributed not only great flavor but a rich green color to the pesto.   
Featured in: 
Beyond Pesto: New Ideas For Basil. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Italian,
                    Arborio Rice,
                    Basil,
                    Green Bean
 By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 45 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours 30 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman About 35 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes By Florence Fabricant 40 minutes By Melissa Clark 1 hour plus cooling By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes By Melissa Clark 1 hour 15 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Samin Nosrat
         Cooking Guide 
          By David Tanis
         Cooking Guide 
          By Robert Simonson
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.