Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu.  Spaghetti Squash With Pesto By Florence Fabricant 45 minutes  Monkfish à la Provençale By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes  Whole Wheat Pappardelle With Fava Purée By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours  Chicken Tagine With Rhubarb By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes  Brown Rice Bowls With Stewed Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes  Chicken Breasts With Feta and Figs By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus 30 to 60 minutes' marinating  Lemon Risotto with Summer Squash By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes  Spaghetti With Fresh Tomato and Basil Sauce By The New York Times 40 minutes healthy Spaghetti Squash With Garlic, Parsley and Breadcrumbs By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes healthy Winter Squash and Potato Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours healthy Quinoa and Squash Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman 50 minutes  Summer Squash Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour  Spaghetti Squash With Pesto By Florence Fabricant 45 minutes  Monkfish à la Provençale By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes  Whole Wheat Pappardelle With Fava Purée By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours  Chicken Tagine With Rhubarb By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes  Brown Rice Bowls With Stewed Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes  Chicken Breasts With Feta and Figs By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus 30 to 60 minutes' marinating  Lemon Risotto with Summer Squash By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes  Spaghetti With Fresh Tomato and Basil Sauce By The New York Times 40 minutes healthy Spaghetti Squash With Garlic, Parsley and Breadcrumbs By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes healthy Winter Squash and Potato Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours healthy Quinoa and Squash Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman 50 minutes  Summer Squash Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour  Spaghetti Squash With Pesto By Florence Fabricant 45 minutes  Monkfish à la Provençale By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   Recently on the Recipes for Health page on Facebook, I asked readers what they were finding in their weekly delivered produce boxes. Requests for spaghetti squash recipes came pouring in. I was working on basil dishes already, so I decided to combine the two ingredients in this gratin. 
Featured in: 
Beyond Pesto: New Ideas For Basil. 
   
Healthy,
                    Gluten Free,
                    Gruyere,
                    Spaghetti Squash
 By Melissa Clark 1 1/2 hours, plus 4 hours or overnight chilling By Melissa Clark 1 hour, plus at least 4 hours’ chilling By Julia Moskin 1 hour 40 minutes By Melissa Clark 1 hour By Alex Witchel 15 minutes By Mark Bittman 20 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes By Melissa Clark 10 minutes, plus marinating Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.