Advertisement 
Basics  By                     
 NATALIE ANGIER
 
OCT. 4, 2010
 If you want to talk about bolstering science and math education in this country, I’ll gladly break out my virtual pompoms and go rah. Who wouldn’t? Our nation’s economy, global allure and future tense all depend on the strength of its scientific spine. But mention the odious and increasingly pervasive term “STEM education,” and instead of cheerleading gear, I reach for my ... pistil. In my disgruntlement, I am not alone. For readers who heretofore have been spared exposure to this little concatenation of capital letters, or who have, quite understandably, misconstrued its meaning, STEM stands for Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics, supposedly the major food groups of a comprehensive science education. Aficionados pronounce STEM exactly as you’d imagine  — like the plant part, like the cell type, like what you do to a tide and I wish I could do to this trend, but it’s probably too late. Go to any convention, Congressional hearing or science foundation bagel chat on the ever ominous theme of “Science in the Classroom, and why can’t our students be more like Singapore’s when they take international tests anyway?” and you’ll hear little about how to teach trigonometry or afford all those Popsicle sticks needed for the eighth-grade bridge-building competition, but you’ll be pelted by references to STEM. Advertisement A new report from the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology offers many worthy ideas for improving science education, like creating a “master corps” of the nation’s finest science teachers who would in turn train others; but the STEM word keeps thudding up its pages like so many gristle nubs in a turkey burger. It’s greasy-peasy: collapse down education, and you’ve got a buzz phrase to rival phys ed. Advertisement As even those who use the term admit, it is deeply, serio-comically flawed. For starters, it is opaque and confusing. “Everybody who knows what it means knows what it means, and everybody else doesn’t,” said Eric Lander, co-chairman of the president’s advisory council and head of the Broad Institute of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard University. When he first heard the term, he figured it was a too-cute reference to botany. “I thought, stem education? What about flower education?” he said. These days, given the public’s fixation on embryonic stem cells  — progenitor cells that give rise to all the different tissues of the body  — the potential for confusion is even worse. “People hear about STEM education, and they think some harm has come to an embryo in the process,” Dr. Lander said. The term also sounds didactic and jargony, which is why Sally Ride, the former astronaut who now travels the country promoting the glories of science education to girls and other interested parties, said she consciously avoids it. “With my NASA heritage, I’m perfectly capable of speaking entirely in acronyms, including the verbs,” she said. “But this is not very helpful when talking to the public.” Dr. Ride’s instincts are well grounded. According to survey results released last month by the nonprofit group Entertainment Industries Council, when some 5,000 participants were asked whether they understood the term “STEM education,” 86 percent said no. “They said it made them think of stem cells, branches, leaves and broccoli stems,” said Brian Dyak, the group’s president. “I have no clue on that last one.” Clearly, he added, “we have a branding issue here.” But is it a brand worth pitching? Some critics argue that the term is unnecessary and potentially self-defeating. What’s wrong with a simple science education, or if need be, science and math education? What’s with all the discipline call-outs that demanded the invention of an acronym? “A program officer from a foundation recently asked me, ‘Is the work you’re doing STEM education or science education?’ ” said Elizabeth Stage, the director of the Lawrence Hall of Science at the University of California, Berkeley. “I drew him a Venn diagram, showing him what’s central about science and how that overlaps with technology, engineering and math.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Dr. Stage, a mathematician by training, thinks it’s a “false distinction” to “silo out” the different disciplines, and would much prefer to focus on what the fields have in common, like problem-solving, arguing from evidence and reconciling conflicting views. “That’s what we should have in the bulls’-eye of our target,” she said. Advertisement The decision to include engineering and technology in the education “messaging” dates roughly to the 1990s, when the National Science Foundation and other government agencies began trying to draw up national standards for science education, specifying what students in kindergarten through 12th grade should know by the end of every school year. “I remember it being made explicit that science encompassed more than straight-up science, and you started hearing requests to include mention of math, technology and engineering,” Dr. Stage said. Pragmatism and economics are also part of the equation. As government has turned ever more avidly to industry to help pay for expensive improvements in the science classroom, the need to emphasize the link between a well-rounded science education and tomorrow’s techie work force has grown accordingly. “A lot of corporations are now talking to each other about what they’re doing in STEM education,” said Dr. Stage, and those corporations include engineering and computer heavyweights like Exxon Mobil, Intel and Hewlett-Packard. Dr. Lander argues that that there is a basic rightness to the itemizing spirit behind STEM. “Science is discovering the laws of the natural world, and mathematics isn’t that, it’s logical, deductive truth, and its experiments don’t have error bars,” he said. “And when you get to technology and engineering, it’s the constructed world, and that’s different than the discovered one.” He’d like a better term than the current one, but said he’s tried “all four factorial permutations” of the letters, and the alternatives are either unpronounceable or already claimed by a baseball team. Dr. Ride points out that an earlier version of the official acronym was, in fact, SMET, “and thankfully we’ve moved away from that,” she said. Yet others don’t frame the word “science” so narrowly, as the province of the given rather than of the forged. Science has always encompassed the applied and the basic, and the impulses to explore and to invent have always been linked. Galileo built a telescope and then trained it on the sky. Advances in technology illuminate realms beyond our born senses, and those insights in turn yield better scientific toys. Engineers use math and physics and the scientific mind-set in everything they design; and those who don’t, please let us know, so we can fly someone else’s airplane and not cross your bridge when we come to it. Whatever happened to the need for interdisciplinary thinking? Why promote a brand that codifies atomization? Besides, acronyms encourage rampant me-tooism. Mr. Dyak said that some have lobbied for the addition of medicine to the scholastic program, complete with a second M. “It’s called STEM squared,” he said. Even the arts are hankering for an orthographic position, he added. STEAM education: great books, labs and motherboards, and free rug cleaning, too. A version of this article appears in print on October 5, 2010, on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: STEM Education Has Little to Do With Flowers.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »