Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Whole-Wheat Breadsticks With Sesame By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours 30 minutes easy Quick Pickles By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes healthy Gingered Winter Fruit Ambrosia By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour easy Poached Rhubarb By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Frittata With Red Peppers and Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Endive Salad With Blue Cheese Dressing By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes  Whole-Wheat Date Bread By Melissa Clark 1 hour 10 minutes, plus cooling easy Parmesan Cream Crackers By Mark Bittman 20 minutes  Golden Whole Wheat Bread By Harold Mcgee 1 1/2 hours, plus 5 hours’ rising healthy Homemade Whole Grain Crackers By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Cheddar Cheese Crackers By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Whole-Wheat Breadsticks With Sesame By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours 30 minutes easy Quick Pickles By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes healthy Gingered Winter Fruit Ambrosia By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour easy Poached Rhubarb By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Frittata With Red Peppers and Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Endive Salad With Blue Cheese Dressing By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes  Whole-Wheat Date Bread By Melissa Clark 1 hour 10 minutes, plus cooling easy Parmesan Cream Crackers By Mark Bittman 20 minutes  Golden Whole Wheat Bread By Harold Mcgee 1 1/2 hours, plus 5 hours’ rising healthy Homemade Whole Grain Crackers By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Cheddar Cheese Crackers By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Whole-Wheat Breadsticks With Sesame By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours 30 minutes easy Quick Pickles By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   I like to top these with a little Parmesan cheese and a generous sprinkling of za’atar, a spice mix made with thyme, sesame seeds and sumac. You can find it in Middle Eastern groceries or make your own. 
Featured in: 
Homemade Whole Grain Crackers. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Parmesan,
                    Whole Wheat Flour
 By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/4 hours, plus 1 1/2 hours' cooling By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus several hours of chilling By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 3/4 hours By Pierre Franey 20 minutes By Alex Witchel 15 minutes By Kim Severson 40 minutes By Melissa Clark 1 hour, plus 1 1/2 hours' rising Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Sam Sifton
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.