Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
SINDYA N. BHANOO

OCT. 21, 2010
 Little fish are cautious and timid around big, hungry fish, and rightly so. But when populations of predators like tuna and shark shrink because of human fishing, small prey are more adventurous, according to a coming study in The American Naturalist. “They took bigger excursions to feed, or to go to find mates,” said Elizabeth Madin, the study’s lead author and a postdoctoral fellow at the University of Technology in Sydney, Australia. Dr. Madin did the research in the remote Line Islands, in the central Pacific Ocean, while pursuing her Ph.D. at the University of California, Santa Barbara. Using snorkels, scuba equipment and video cameras, she and her colleagues captured the behavior of more than 600 parrotfish, damselfish and surgeonfish. Advertisement Two of the northern Line Islands are owned by the United States, which has designated them a protected no-fishing zone.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Three other islands are part of the Republic of Kiribati and are home to active human settlements that fish. In waters untouched by humans, the researchers found that the little fish were spotty in their feeding habits. Some parts of the coral reefs, where fish feed on seaweed, were heavily grazed. In other areas, perhaps where predators lurked, there were large tufts of untouched seaweed. Advertisement But where fishing was happening, their grazing formed a more even pattern across the reefs. Further study is needed, but this feeding pattern could affect coral growth, since coral grows where seaweed is not present, Dr. Madin said. An earlier version of this article misidentified a species of fish that researchers observed for its feeding habits. It is surgeonfish, not sturgeon. A version of this article appears in print on October 26, 2010, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Predators Gone, Small Fish Get Bolder.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »