Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
SINDYA N. BHANOO

JAN. 28, 2011
 Researchers from seven countries have collaborated to analyze how a single strain of Streptococcus pneumoniae bacteria has morphed over 30 years and spread across the world, in an attempt to overcome the development of antibiotics and vaccines. The research is the first detailed genetic picture of the evolution of a specific strain of pneumonia, resulting in a family tree of sorts. The researchers analyzed samples from North and South America, Africa and Southeast Asia. Their findings appear in the current issue of the journal Science. In looking at more than 240 samples, they found that since 1984, when the strain was first identified in Spain, it has turned over about three-quarters of its genome. Over time, the bacteria mutated to better resist antibiotics and vaccines. The researchers found that it underwent both recombination, in which the DNA shuffles around, and base substitutions, in which individual nucleic acids in a DNA sequence change. Advertisement That means that certain samples they tested are not treatable with existing vaccines, which target certain gene clusters that have now changed.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In the past, genomic sequencing of bacteria was time-consuming and laborious, but new technology has sped up the process, and will perhaps help speed up the development of new vaccines, said Stephen Bentley, a geneticist at the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute and one of the study’s authors. “I think this going to be really important going forward,” he said. “We can start to do this kind of analysis routinely; then we will be able to have really valuable information for how to introduce antibiotics and new vaccines.” Advertisement He and his colleagues are now studying several other strains of the pneumonia bacteria. A version of this article appears in print on February 1, 2011, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Pneumonia DNA Morphs To Dodge Vaccines.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »