Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Quinoa Pancakes By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes  Apple and Swiss Chard Pie By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus resting  Monkfish à la Provençale By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes  Greek Stewed Green Beans and Yellow Squash With Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman About 55 minutes healthy Provençal Greens Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Zucchini Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours healthy Quinoa Pilaf With Sweet Peas and Green Garlic By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour healthy Quinoa and Asparagus Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes healthy Quinoa, Spinach and Mushroom Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 35 minutes  Quinoa and Carrot Kugel By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours healthy Quinoa and Squash Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman 50 minutes healthy Quinoa Pancakes By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes  Apple and Swiss Chard Pie By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus resting  Monkfish à la Provençale By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes  Greek Stewed Green Beans and Yellow Squash With Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman About 55 minutes healthy Provençal Greens Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Zucchini Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours healthy Quinoa Pilaf With Sweet Peas and Green Garlic By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour healthy Quinoa and Asparagus Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes healthy Quinoa, Spinach and Mushroom Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 35 minutes  Quinoa and Carrot Kugel By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours healthy Quinoa and Squash Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman 50 minutes healthy Quinoa Pancakes By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes  Apple and Swiss Chard Pie By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus resting 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   I love the contrast between sweet beets and pungent, garlic-infused yogurt. With a layer of nutritious grains seasoned with sweet spices, this dish easily takes center stage on your plate. To save time, grind all of the spices together in a spice mill. 
Featured in: 
Vegetable Casseroles For Frigid Nights. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Gluten Free,
                    Beet,
                    Quinoa
 By Mark Bittman About 30 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes By Joan Nathan 1 hour By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 40 minutes By Mark Bittman 20 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes By Sam Sifton 1 1/2 hours By Julia Moskin 30 minutes, plus chilling Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By David Tanis
         Cooking Guide 
          By Tejal Rao
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.