Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
SINDYA N. BHANOO

JUNE 3, 2011
 To stay warm in Antarctica’s bitterly cold conditions, emperor penguins are known to form tight huddles. Researchers now report that while in these huddles, the penguins move in a coordinated periodic wave. This allows every penguin a chance to move from the colder outer region of the huddle into the warmer inner region. Penguins form such tight huddles that it would be impossible for an individual to make an isolated movement, said Daniel P. Zitterbart, a physicist from the University of Erlangen-Nuremberg and the study’s first author. Instead, they move in a coordinated wavelike fashion every 30 to 60 seconds at a speed of about five inches per second, he and his colleagues write in the journal PloS One. The wave is much like the coordinated waves of spectators during sporting events, Mr. Zitterbart said. Advertisement But the penguins’ movement is so slight that it is invisible to the naked eye. The researchers captured high-resolution time-lapse images of an emperor penguin colony near the Neumayer Station, an Antarctic research facility, for several hours, recording images every 1.3 seconds. They were then able to track and analyze the movements of the penguins over time. Half of a penguin colony during the aggregation and huddling process. As the temperatures fall, larger and more stable huddles form until nearly all the penguins formed one large huddle. “We see that they definitely have to be altruistic in their behavior to survive,” Mr. Zitterbart said. There are still unanswered questions about the penguins’ behavior. It is unclear, for instance, whether a single penguin or multiple penguins trigger the wave. Advertisement Mr. Zitterbart and his colleagues plan to set up a remote-controlled observatory in Antarctica that will allow for year-round observation. A version of this article appears in print on June 7, 2011, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Waves of Warmth In a Penguin Huddle.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »