Advertisement By JOHN NOBLE WILFORDMAY 9, 2011
 Those stars among the hunter-gatherers of fossils related to human origins, Donald C. Johanson and Richard Leakey, returned last week to the American Museum of Natural History in New York, the scene of a bitter televised brawl between the two 30 years ago. They were older, presumably wiser and definitely much more temperate. The title of the program, “Human Evolution and Why It Matters: A Conversation with Leakey and Johanson,” signaled that this was not to be a re-enactment. At the start, Mr. Leakey called attention to scars on his face and a thick bandage on his scalp, the result of skin-cancer treatment. With a smile and a wink in his voice, he said, “I assure you this was the work of a doctor, not a colleague.” Everyone laughed, including Dr. Johanson, and relaxed for the next hour and a half as the two paleoanthropologists conducted a tour of their science’s unfinished business, from the search for the last common ancestor of the chimpanzee and human lineages to a deeper understanding of how early modern Homo sapiens developed the gift of symbolic thinking and language. In a field as contentious as theirs, it was probably inevitable that by 1981 the two men, both in their mid-30s, had become rivals who clashed over interpretations drawn from the meager sampling of bones coming to light. Dr. Johanson was riding a wave of fame as the discoverer of the skeleton nicknamed Lucy, then the earliest known hominid species and judged by him to be a direct ancestor of humans. Advertisement Mr. Leakey, a rising member of the family whose name is synonymous with fossil hunting in Africa, held a sharply divergent view. The Leakeys thought the earliest ancestors of the Homo genus preceded Lucy’s species, Australopithecus afarensis, which meant it could not be an ancestor of the human lineage. Advertisement The whole issue, compounded by a history of slights and misunderstandings, came to a head in front of a television camera and none other than Walter Cronkite. In the heat of debate, Dr. Johanson held up a chart showing his Lucy version of the human family tree. Next to it was a blank space in which he invited Mr. Leakey to draw his version. Feeling trapped, Mr. Leakey finally took a pen and placed a large X through Dr. Johanson’s tree. “Well, what would you draw in its place?” Dr. Johanson asked. “A question mark,” said Mr. Leakey, and so he did with a bold flourish. The public eruption of the feud shook paleoanthropology at a time of mounting opposition by Christian fundamentalists to the implications of Darwin’s evolution of species by natural selection as “just a theory.” To this day, recalcitrant creationists who live and think in terms of the Book of Genesis cite the argument as an example of how weak the case for evolution must be if even scientists cannot agree on their interpretations of the fossil evidence. In their talks and in interviews the next day, Dr. Johanson, founding director of the Institute of Human Origins at Arizona State University, and Mr. Leakey, chairman of the Turkana Basin Institute in Kenya and a professor at Stony Brook University in New York, said one of the most appealing objectives now is to find the last common ancestor to humans and chimpanzees. Judging by the few fossils dated at six million years or more, they said it would probably be hard to distinguish the common ancestor from just another ape. Another unresolved mystery centers on the first hominids to stand erect on their two hind legs. It was literally a big step, taken much earlier than was previously thought, separating them from other primates. Dr. Johanson said bipedalism was “a breakthrough adaptation that clearly had a lot of benefits.” An approach to solving the mystery, he said, is to frame the investigation around the question of what were the advantages to hominid ancestors of standing tall. Fossil hunters have so far drawn a virtual blank on the period from 3 million to 2.4 million years ago. Yet somewhere in that period, our own genus, Homo, is thought to have emerged. Who was that immediate ancestor? Because scientists have found much more diversity within the species of our genus and the australopithecines, Dr. Johanson said it will be anyone’s guess how the transition to Homo took place. Mr. Leakey was intrigued by recent reports that complex language — not just grunts but some expressive syntax — evolved among modern humans while still in Africa. He wanted to know more about these people who lived more than 60,000 years ago. They were etching symbols on stone and pieces of ochre and showing the creative urges that would come to the fore later, most dramatically in the cave art of Europe. This symbolic thinking and creativity, Dr. Johanson said, “is the final leap that makes us what we are today.” Advertisement In the last 30 years, scientists have uncovered hominid fossils twice the age of the 3.2 million-year-old Lucy. Their genetic studies show that the ape and the human lineages probably diverged six million to eight million years ago and that anatomically modern humans emerged in Africa less than 200,000 years ago. “Evolution is a fact,” said Dr. Johanson. “It is the best explanation of what is known from observations. It’s a theory as powerful as the theory of gravity.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Ian Tattersall, a paleoanthropologist at the American Museum, who was in the audience, noted that the science of human origins has moved well beyond the Leakey-Johanson debate. The discovery of several more extinct species and possible side branches, he said, has changed the shape and complexity of the family tree. It is bushier than the ones Dr. Johanson and Mr. Leakey argued over. If anything, Dr. Tattersall said, the family tree as conceived today “looks more like Don had it.” He pointed out that Mr. Leakey was “responsible for the recovery of an incredible number of fossils, but extremely cautious in interpreting them, whereas Don was being pretty imaginative.” Science is a testing of ideas, discarding bad ones, narrowing possibilities, happening on entirely new ideas in the process. The creationists who tend to believe that things only are right or wrong, Dr. Tattersall said, fail to understand this fundamental aspect of science. “What is really bad in science is if you start being authoritarian,” he concluded. “Then you get in the same narrow territory that creationists occupy.” A version of this article appears in print on May 10, 2011, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: Tracking Lineage Through a Bramble.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »