Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu.  Goat's Cheese Souffle By Moira Hodgson 1 hour easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Monkfish à la Provençale By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes  Garlic Shrimp With Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes  Zucchini Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours  Greens and Chayote Enchiladas With Salsa Verde By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours  Spring Ramen Bowl With Snap Peas and Asparagus By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours healthy Marinated Goat Cheese By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes, plus several hours' steeping healthy Tomato and Goat Cheese Tart By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 10 minutes healthy Spaghetti With Romano Beans, Black Pepper and Goat Cheese By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes  Baked Figs and Goat Cheese By David Tanis 25 minutes   Tomatoes Stuffed With Goat Cheese By Linda Wells 20 minutes  Goat's Cheese Souffle By Moira Hodgson 1 hour easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Monkfish à la Provençale By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes  Garlic Shrimp With Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes  Zucchini Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours  Greens and Chayote Enchiladas With Salsa Verde By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours  Spring Ramen Bowl With Snap Peas and Asparagus By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours healthy Marinated Goat Cheese By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes, plus several hours' steeping healthy Tomato and Goat Cheese Tart By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 10 minutes healthy Spaghetti With Romano Beans, Black Pepper and Goat Cheese By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes  Baked Figs and Goat Cheese By David Tanis 25 minutes   Tomatoes Stuffed With Goat Cheese By Linda Wells 20 minutes  Goat's Cheese Souffle By Moira Hodgson 1 hour easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   For these quesadillas, I prefer to use my own cooked black beans, which I try to keep on hand in the freezer. Canned baked beans are also an option, but they are higher in sodium than home-cooked beans. 
Featured in: 
Fast Food For Harried Days. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Gluten Free,
                    Black Bean,
                    Corn Tortilla,
                    Goat Cheese
 By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes By Kim Severson 30 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 5 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman About 10 minutes By Mark Bittman 45 minutes By Mark Bittman 20 minutes By Florence Fabricant 20 minutes By David Tanis 30 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By David Tanis
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.