Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
SINDYA N. BHANOO

MARCH 16, 2011
 With age comes wisdom, an old adage goes. Now researchers report that there is truth to this among African elephants. Groups of elephants led by older matriarchs are more adept at locating and fending off predatory male lions. “People had speculated before that older leaders had more knowledge, but it’s really hard to measure,” said Karen McComb, an evolutionary ecologist at the University of Sussex in England who led the study. Dr. McComb and her colleagues used loudspeakers to blast lion roars, and then judged the reactions of elephants. They report their findings in the current issue of the journal Proceedings of the Royal Society B. Groups with matriarchs older than 60 were able to determine more easily whether a lion’s roar was from a male or a female (males pose a greater threat), and respond accordingly. Advertisement Elephants with older matriarchs were also able to organize themselves more quickly as a united front and march toward a roar to challenge the supposed predator.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The younger elephants are presumably taking cues from the matriarch, Dr. McComb said. In total, the researchers studied about 1,300 elephants in 39 family groups at Amboseli National Park in Kenya. Matriarchs ranged in age from 24 to 70. Matriarchs remain group leaders until they die, seemingly never losing their cognitive abilities, Dr. McComb said. Most live well into their 60s, and suffer no hearing loss, the key ability required to identify lion roars. Advertisement “Otherwise you might expect them to marginalize until they die, but this suggests that they don’t have the same sort of cognitive decline as humans,” Dr. McComb said. “Of course, human women in their 60s are doing quite fine, aren’t they?” A version of this article appears in print on March 22, 2011, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Older Elephant Matriarchs Keep the Lions at Bay.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »