Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Carrot Cake Muffins By Martha Rose Shulman 25 minutes  Greens and Chayote Enchiladas With Salsa Verde By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours  Monkfish à la Provençale By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes healthy Pesto-Stuffed Portobello Burgers By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus marinating easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Chicken Breasts With Feta and Figs By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus 30 to 60 minutes' marinating easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking  Carrot Soup By Patricia Leigh Brown 1 hour healthy Cabbage and Carrot Noodles With Egg By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Tomato and Carrot Marinara Sauce By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes healthy Potato and Onion Frittata By Martha Rose Shulman 8 minutes healthy Purée of Winter Vegetable Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Carrot Cake Muffins By Martha Rose Shulman 25 minutes  Greens and Chayote Enchiladas With Salsa Verde By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours  Monkfish à la Provençale By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes healthy Pesto-Stuffed Portobello Burgers By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus marinating easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Chicken Breasts With Feta and Figs By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus 30 to 60 minutes' marinating easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking  Carrot Soup By Patricia Leigh Brown 1 hour healthy Cabbage and Carrot Noodles With Egg By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Tomato and Carrot Marinara Sauce By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes healthy Potato and Onion Frittata By Martha Rose Shulman 8 minutes healthy Purée of Winter Vegetable Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Carrot Cake Muffins By Martha Rose Shulman 25 minutes  Greens and Chayote Enchiladas With Salsa Verde By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   Tarragon enhances the sweetness of the carrots and leeks in this bright frittata. 
Featured in: 
A Better Way To Serve Eggs. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Gluten Free,
                    Carrot,
                    Egg
 By Mark Bittman 10 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes By David Tanis About 15 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour By Mark Bittman 20 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours By Samin Nosrat 20 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Sam Sifton
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.