Advertisement By C. CLAIBORNE RAYFEB. 28, 2011
 Q. You know the five-second rule for dropped food? Is it really safe if you pick it up in time? A. “The five-second rule probably should become the zero-second rule,” said Dr. Roy M. Gulick, chief of the division of infectious diseases at Weill Cornell Medical College. “Eating dropped food poses a risk for ingestion of bacteria and subsequent gastrointestinal disease, and the time the food sits on the floor does not change the risk.” In general, if there are bacteria on the floor, they will cling to the food nearly immediately on contact, Dr. Gulick said. Factors that influence the risk and the rate of bacterial transfer include the  type of floor; the type of food; the type of bacteria; and how long the bacteria have been on the floor. In a study published in 2007 in The Journal of Applied Microbiology, Clemson University researchers tested salmonella placed on wood, tile or carpet, and dropped bologna on the surfaces for 5, 30 or 60 seconds. With both wood and tile, more than 99 percent of the bacteria were transferred nearly immediately, and there was no difference by the time of contact. Carpet transferred a smaller number of bacteria, again with no difference by contact time. The amount transferred decreased over hours, but there were still thousands of the bacteria per square centimeter on the surfaces after 24 hours, and hundreds survived on the surfaces for as long as four weeks. As few as 10 salmonella bacteria can cause gastroenteritis.C. CLAIBORNE RAY An answer in the Q&A column on Tuesday misstated the year a study  was published in The Journal of Applied Microbiology examining the  transfer of salmonella to bologna left on various kinds of flooring for  varying amounts of time. It was 2007, not 2006. Readers are invited to submit questions by mail to Question, Science Times, The New York Times, 620 8th Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018, or by e-mail to question@nytimes.com.  A version of this article appears in print on March 1, 2011, on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: The 5-Second Rule.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »