Advertisement SEPT. 1, 2014
 Social science The Decisive Marriage Re “Marital Bliss, One Decision After Another” (Well, Aug. 26): What an incredibly sad article! Nowhere is the word “love” even mentioned. And without romantic love and passion, why marry at all? The kind of marriage described here seems to be something between a business merger and a prayer meeting. If people in such relationships are happy with them, it only indicates how impoverished their idea of happiness is! Mor, California, posted to nytimes.com You can “intentionally define a relationship” with a small wedding, too. Research is always a little subjective... Davina Goldammer-Utz, posted to Facebook Couldn’t afford a big wedding, so we are doomed. After 44 years, I should prepare myself. Divorce/unhappiness should happen anytime now. Rose Portillo, posted to Facebook Commitment matters? What a finding! The more interesting thing is that people would choose to marry without talking about it, actually wanting it, not being able to imagine it otherwise. Inertia together with the fear of being alone makes for a powerful force. Advertisement Marc, New York, posted to nytimes.com neuroscience Spotless Minds? Re “Scientists Take the Edge Off Bad Memories in Mice” (Aug. 28): I wouldn’t want to lose my bad memories because they are a part of me and who I became. This is a nightmare. Advertisement A.c. Ross, posted to Facebook Any way scientists can find out where our deep-seated issues come from? Ann Bolotin, posted to Facebook Sign me up. Rebecca Podmore, posted to Facebook 
@jeffdelviscio @nytimeshealth That would seem like a dangerous idea - if we failed to remember danger, trauma from the past.         
@nytimeshealth In the presence of a positive stimulus, it is easier for the brain to forget about bad memories. If we could only stay happy.         
            What could go wrong? RT @nytimesscience Could science create a dimmer switch for the bad memories in your brain? http://t.co/YlyouoiRgW  End-of-Life Care Last Meals Re: “Food and the Dying Patient” (Aug. 21, nytimes.com/well): It is up to the medical community to fervently explain that people who are dying do not need food. The body and its organs are shutting down and calories are something that just makes the process longer. Hospice care with meticulous attention to comfort and body integrity, along with the loving and soothing touch of caregivers, is by far the most dignified and essential component of the dying process. Renolady, Reno, Nev., posted to nytimes.com Science Times welcomes letters, comments on nytimes.com and social media posts from readers. Email should be sent to scitimes@nytimes.com. A version of this article appears in print on September 2, 2014, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Readers’ Thoughts on Spotless Minds and Big Weddings.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »