Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

APRIL 19, 2010
 This is inspired by a dish that Mexican chef Rick Bayless makes with huitlacoche, a black fungus that grows in lobes on ears of corn. It’s a great delicacy in Mexico but not easy to get in the United States (though you can find mail order sources on the Internet). Mushrooms are a lot easier to find, and they make a delicious taco filling. Epazote is an earthy Mexican herb that you might be able to find in a Mexican market or a farmers’ market. If you can’t find it, use cilantro. 1 pound fresh poblano chiles (3 large or 4 medium) 2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 1 medium or large white onion, halved and thinly sliced across the grain 4 garlic cloves, minced 1 1/4 pounds mushrooms, sliced (about 6 cups) Salt to taste 3 to 4 tablespoons chopped epazote or cilantro 12 corn tortillas 2 ounces crumbled Mexican queso fresco or feta (optional) 1. Roast the chiles. Light a gas burner, and place the pepper directly over the flame. As soon as one section has blackened, turn the chiles with tongs to expose another section to the flame. Continue to turn until peppers are blackened all over. Alternatively, roast under a broiler. Preheat the broiler. Cover a baking sheet with foil, and place the peppers on top. Place under the broiler until charred on one side, about three to four minutes. Turn and continue to grill, turning every three minutes or so, until uniformly charred. Place in a bowl, and cover tightly. Allow to sit until cool, then remove the charred skin. You may need to run the pepper briefly under the faucet to rinse off the final bits of charred skin. If so, pat dry with paper towels. Cut the pepper in half, remove the seeds and membranes and cut into 1/4-inch dice. Set aside. Advertisement 2. Heat the olive oil in a large, heavy skillet over medium-low heat, and add the onion. Cook, stirring, until tender and lightly colored, about 10 minutes. Add a generous pinch of salt and the garlic. Cook, stirring, until fragrant, 30 seconds to a minute. Add the mushrooms, and turn the heat up to medium-high. Cook, stirring, until they begin to soften, then season with salt. Turn the heat down to medium, and cook, stirring often, until the mushrooms are tender and moist, about eight minutes. Sir in the poblanos and epazote or cilantro, and cook, stirring, for another minute or two. Taste and adjust seasonings. Remove from the heat and keep warm.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 3. Wrap the tortillas in a heavy kitchen towel and place in a steamer basket over 1/2 inch of water. Bring to a boil, cover the pot and steam one minute. Turn off the heat, and allow to sit for 15 minutes without uncovering. Pass the tortillas, top with the mushroom mixture, sprinkle with a little cheese if desired, fold the tortillas over the filling and enjoy. Advertisement Yield: Twelve tacos, serving four to six. Advance preparation: The mushroom filling will keep for two or three days in the refrigerator. Reheat gently on top of the stove or in a microwave, and proceed with the recipe. Nutrition information per taco (does not include optional ingredients): 74 calories; 3 grams total fat; 0 grams saturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 11 grams carbohydrates; 2 grams dietary fiber; 27 milligrams sodium (does not include salt added during cooking); 3 grams protein Martha Rose Shulman can be reached at martha-rose-shulman.com. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »