Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

APRIL 19, 2010
 Pan-cooked, slightly caramelized winter squash contrasts beautifully with the spicy, rich-tasting chipotles that are canned in a sort of Mexican-style barbecue sauce and stocked by most supermarkets along with other Mexican ingredients. These tacos bring you lots of vitamin A, as well as vitamin C, potassium, manganese and folate. 3 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 2 pounds winter squash, such as butternut or banana squash, peeled and cut in 1/2 inch dice Salt to taste 2 to 4 chipotle chiles in adobo (to taste), removed from the adobo and minced 1/2 cup plain low-fat yogurt 1/4 pound Mexican queso ranchero or feta 8 corn tortillas 1. Cook the squash. Heat half of the olive oil in a large, heavy cast iron or nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. Add half the squash in a single layer. Turn the heat down to medium. Cook five minutes or until the squash is nicely browned on one side; shake the pan to turn the squash or use tongs. Cook for another five to 10 minutes, shaking the pan often or stirring with a wooden spoon, until the squash is nicely browned and tender when pierced by a knife or skewer. Season to taste with salt, and transfer to a bowl. Repeat with the remaining olive oil and squash. Advertisement 2. When the second batch of squash is tender, return the first batch of squash to the pan and stir everything together. Add the chipotles, and toss in the pan for one more  minute. Remove from the heat, stir for a minute and then stir in the yogurt. Keep warm while you heat the tortillas, but don’t allow the yogurt to boil or it will curdle. Advertisement 3. Heat the tortillas. Fill the bottom of a steamer with 1/2 inch of water, and bring to a boil. Meanwhile, wrap the tortillas in a heavy kitchen towel, and place in the steamer basket above the boiling water. Cover tightly and steam one minute, then turn off the heat but do not uncover. Let stand for 15 minutes.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 4. Pass the hot tortillas, and top with the squash. Sprinkle on the queso fresco, fold the tortillas over and enjoy. Yield: Eight tacos, serving four. Advance preparation: The cooked squash will keep for a few days in the refrigerator, without the addition of the yogurt. Reheat on top of the stove or in a microwave, then stir in the yogurt and proceed with the recipe. Nutrition information per taco (does not include optional ingredients): 178 calories; 9 grams total fat; 3 grams saturated fat; 14 milligrams cholesterol; 22 grams carbohydrates; 3 grams dietary fiber; 246 milligrams sodium (does not include salt added during cooking); 5 grams protein Martha Rose Shulman can be reached at martha-rose-shulman.com. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »