Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

APRIL 26, 2010
 Beets and their greens go well with a garlicky sauce. This twist on a Mediterranean classic pairs them with a garlic mayonnaise flavored with toasted orange peel. Serve the greens with cooked bulgur, wheat berries, quinoa or barley. The mayonnaise is delicious  with roasted or steamed vegetables and makes a great condiment for a sandwich. 2 organic oranges 1 whole egg 1 teaspoon Dijon mustard 2 large garlic cloves, green shoots removed, mashed in a mortar and pestle with 1/2 teaspoon salt 2 to 3 teaspoons fresh lemon juice (to taste) 1/2 cup canola oil 1/4 cup extra virgin olive oil 1 or 2 bunches red, yellow or chioggia beets, the beets roasted, the greens stemmed, washed and steamed or blanched just until tender Cooked wheat berries, bulgur, barley or quinoa 1. Preheat the oven to 250 degrees. Using a potato peeler, remove the orange zest, without the pith, from the oranges, and place on a baking sheet in the oven for 45 minutes or until completely dried. Check often, and be careful that it doesn’t burn. Allow the peel to cool, then grind in a spice mill. Measure out 1 tablespoon. Advertisement 2. Mash the garlic in a mortar and pestle with the salt, and add 1 teaspoon of the lemon juice. Let sit for 10 minutes. This will soften the sharpness of the garlic.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 3. Place the egg in a food processor fitted with the steel blade. Add the mustard, and turn on the machine. When the egg is frothy, begin to slowly drizzle in the canola oil and then the olive oil with the machine running. Stop the machine, and add the garlic, remaining lemon juice and orange peel. Process until well blended. Taste, adjust salt and remove to a bowl. Serve with roasted beets, peeled and cut in wedges or sliced, their cooked greens, and cooked bulgur, barley, quinoa or wheat berries. Advertisement Yield (aioli): 1 cup, serving six to eight. Advance preparation: The beets and greens will keep for four or five days in the refrigerator. The aioli will keep for about three days. Nutritional information per serving (aioli only): 260 calories; 29 grams fat; 3 grams saturated fat; 35 milligrams cholesterol; 1 gram carbohydrates; 0 grams dietary fiber; 223 milligrams sodium (does not include salt added during cooking); 1 gram protein Martha Rose Shulman can be reached at martha-rose-shulman.com. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »