Advertisement By NICHOLAS BAKALARAPRIL 12, 2010
 Whooping cough has been a well-known disease for hundreds of years, and the term “pertussis” has been in use since the 18th century. Its symptoms are vivid: severe coughing spells ending with a whooping gasp for breath and a face that turns red or purple, often followed by vomiting and then a return to feeling fine until the next episode. But until the early 20th century, no one knew what caused it. During the 19th century, The New-York Daily Times, as it was then called, mentioned pertussis several times in passing. On March 19, 1853, it used the word in an account of the city inspector’s mortality report for the previous year, which listed 177 deaths caused by “teething,” 68 by “abscess” and 3 by “eruption.” No figure was given for pertussis. The first substantive mention of pertussis came on Aug. 23, 1913, in an article that began, “It has just been definitely established that whooping cough is caused by a germ which has been named the bacillus pertussis by Bordet and Gengou, its discoverers.” On April 10, 1914, The Times ran an unsigned article under the headline “Physicians in War on Whooping Cough,” reporting on a medical meeting that recommended setting up special wards for the isolation and treatment of pertussis cases. “In New York City in 1913, from the imperfect statistics available,” the article said, “500 children fell victims to the disease.” In the absence of an effective vaccine, treatment or cure, false hope flourished. On March 8, 1923, The Times reported that two Boston physicians had announced that “the X-ray may prove of more value in the treatment of whooping cough than any other form of treatment,” and told of “definite improvement” in “most of twenty-six cases of active pertussis treated with the X-ray.” The doctors admitted that “they could not give any rational explanation” for the effect, which we now know was imaginary. Even though a number of vaccines and treatments of variable efficacy were developed starting soon after the discovery of the bacillus, The Times considered few worthy of serious attention until Oct. 18, 1941. That day, an unsigned article reported that the Michigan Department of Health had had “favorable results with pertussis vaccine, either alone or in combination with diphtheria toxoid.” In December 1941, The Times reported that there had been 6,865 cases of pertussis in New York City that year, and 38 deaths. After declining for some years after World War II, the number of pertussis infections rose steadily from 1990 to a peak of more than 25,000 cases nationwide in 2005, when the rate began to decline, possibly helped by the introduction of a new vaccine that year. There are now widely used pertussis vaccines and booster shots that are safe and effective for children and adults. Still, according to Dr. Thomas Clark, a medical epidemiologist with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, there were just over 13,000 pertussis infections nationwide in 2008, and 19 children, all less than a year old, died from whooping cough.  A version of this article appears in print on April 13, 2010, on Page D7 of the New York edition with the headline: Pertussis, 1913.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »