Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

MARCH 17, 2010
 This is a very simple, satisfying plate of food that relies on foods from the pantry and vegetables that store well. The quinoa and bean recipes make more than one serving. Both are good keepers, so you can eat the leftovers for lunch or dinner the next day. Pan-cooked winter squash has become a favorite in our house; it’ll satisfy any cravings you might have for fries. 1/2 cup quinoa Salt to taste 1 can (15 oz.) white beans, drained and rinsed 2 stalks celery, from the inner heart of the celery, or 1 fat stalk from the outside of the bunch, diced 4 large or 8 small fresh sage leaves, cut into slivers or finely chopped 2 tablespoons lemon juice (more to taste) 1 small garlic clove, minced Freshly ground pepper 1/4 cup extra virgin olive oil 1/4 pound winter squash, cut in 1/2-inch dice (about 1 cup less 2 tablespoons) or into 1/2-inch wide sticks (like French fries) Advertisement Lettuce leaves (optional) 1. Place the quinoa in a bowl, and cover with cold water. Let sit five minutes. Drain through a strainer and rinse until the water runs clear. Advertisement 2. Bring 1 1/2 cups of water to a boil in a medium saucepan. Add salt (about 1/4 teaspoon) and the quinoa. Bring back to a boil, reduce the heat to low, cover and simmer 15 minutes or until the quinoa is tender and translucent and each grain displays a little thread. Drain and return to the pan. Cover the pan with a clean dish towel, replace the lid and allow to sit undisturbed for 10 minutes.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 3. Meanwhile, place the drained, rinsed white beans in a bowl. Add the celery and sage. Whisk together the lemon juice, garlic, salt and pepper to taste, and 3 tablespoons of the olive oil. Toss with the beans. Taste and adjust seasoning with salt and pepper. 4. Cook the squash. Heat the remaining tablespoon of olive oil in a heavy cast iron or nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. Add the squash in a single layer. Turn the heat down to medium. Cook five minutes or until the squash is nicely browned on one side. Using tongs, turn the pieces of squash over. Cook for another five to 10 minutes until the squash is nicely browned on the other side and tender when pierced by a knife or skewer. Season to taste with salt and pepper, toss in the pan for another minute or so, and remove from the heat. 5. If desired, place a lettuce leaf on a plate, and top with the bean salad. Serve the quinoa and squash on the side. Yield: Serves two (quinoa will serve three). Advance preparation: The cooked quinoa and the bean salad will last for three or four days in the refrigerator. Martha Rose Shulman can be reached at martha-rose-shulman.com. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »