Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
 HENRY FOUNTAIN
 
MAY 3, 2010
 In the 1950s, the Chamorro people of Guam had a very high incidence of a neurodegenerative illness similar to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or A.L.S. A neurotoxin called BMAA, which is produced by cyanobacteria found in the seeds of an edible plant and accumulates in the food chain, has long been suspected as the cause. Now a study has found cyanobacteria-produced BMAA in a far different ecosystem — the waters of the Baltic Sea. And the researchers have found evidence that it accumulates in bottom-dwelling fish and shellfish. Sara Jonasson, a researcher at Stockholm University and the lead author of the study in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, said it was too early to tell if BMAA in fish in the Baltic could be harmful to human health. But the issue merits further research, she said. Dr. Jonasson and others developed a method to isolate and analyze BMAA, which had been very difficult to identify in the environment. Using this new technique they analyzed the BMAA content in plankton blooms in the Baltic Sea during the summer, and in various fish and shellfish. “This is more or less the first discovery that we have BMAA in aquatic ecosystems,” Dr. Jonasson said. “But we don’t know what levels of BMAA it takes to start to develop a disease. None of the countries surrounding the Baltic are hotspots for these kinds of diseases.” Dr. Jonasson and her colleagues are continuing to study the Baltic, looking at more fish species throughout the year. “Now that we finally have the method we can start with the actual biology,” she said. “We had to be sure we were seeing BMAA and not something else.” A version of this article appears in print on May 4, 2010, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Toxin Tied to Illness Is Found in Baltic Sea.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »