Advertisement By KENNETH CHANGMARCH 31, 2010
 Richard A. Garriott has finally seen the item he bought 17 years ago for $68,500. Since the item — a Soviet moon rover on the moon — is nearly a quarter million miles away, Mr. Garriott will still not be picking up his purchase any time soon. But he said he was  “quite gleeful” at seeing the black spot in a photograph taken recently by NASA’s Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter. The orbiter’s high-resolution camera has been bringing back into view vestiges of the space race between the United States and the Soviet Union in the 1960s and 1970s.  The orbiter had previously photographed the Apollo landing sites, showing where NASA astronauts trekked across the surface. But NASA and the Soviets also sent numerous robotic explorers to the moon, and the latest batches of photos captured the landers Luna 20 and Luna 24 and the golf-cart-sized rovers Lunokhod 1 and Lunokhod 2, which Mr. Garriott bought in an auction at Sotheby’s in New York. Advertisement Lunokhod 2 landed on Jan. 15, 1973, and over five months it traveled more than 23 miles on the moon’s surface. It surveyed the moonscape with television and panoramic cameras, studied the mechanics of the soil, and performed other scientific studies. Advertisement Alexander T. Basilevsky, the chief geologist for the mission and currently a visiting professor at Brown University, said that compared with the exploits of the Apollo astronauts, “It was difficult to be surprised.” Nonetheless, “It was something new for us,” he said. One day the rover overheated and malfunctioned, probably because of dust inadvertently dumped onto its radiators. Since it arrived after the last Apollo astronauts had left, it remains the last human-made object to drive across the moon.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Two decades later, during the perestroika and nascent capitalism of the 1990s, Russia sold off some of its space history. In an auction at Sotheby’s, Lavochkin Scientific Production Association, the manufacturer, offered the title to Lunokhod 2 and Luna 21, the lander that carried the rover to the surface. Mr. Garriott bought them with his winning bid. All he received initially was a $68,500 credit card receipt. With some prodding, he subsequently obtained a certificate of title to Lunokhod 2. Mr. Garriott, whose father, Owen, was an astronaut on NASA’s Skylab, made his fortune as a video game developer and subsequently indulged his space hobby. His collection also includes what could be a spare of the original Sputnik satellite, and he paid $30 million for a visit in 2008 to the International Space Station aboard a Russian Soyuz spacecraft. He said he hoped to receive even better views of his property in the coming years if a pack of privately financed rovers, prompted by Google’s Lunar X Prize, start descending on the moon. The prize offers bonuses for visiting historic locations, including that of the Lunokhod 2. In international treaties, nations agreed to forgo territorial claims on the moon, but that treaty does not apply to private individuals. Thus, by owning Lunokhod 2, he owns that part of the moon, Mr. Garriott said. “The next thing is I hope to find my own way to the moon,” Mr. Garriott said. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »