Advertisement OCT. 13, 2014
 Health Care The Upside of Death TO THE EDITOR: Re “Don’t Spoil the Ending” (Books, Oct. 7): Our society’s efforts to continue individual lives indefinitely fails to take into account the evolutionary value that death provides to life. Not only does the death of the oldest generation free up limited resources for the young, but it also allows new traits to arise in a population that are more suitable to changed circumstances. Rather than conquering death, our use of the bulk of our medical resources to prolong the lives of the elderly often leads to increased suffering, instead of increased happiness. We would be better off spending our medical assets on assuring the lives of the world’s children. Steve Gins Kenmore, Wash. Animal Kingdom Looking Up to Giraffes TO THE EDITOR: Re “Tall, Silent and Misunderstood” (Oct. 7): While I certainly value science and study and learning about our world, I am always bemused when we humans turn our lens on an animal, in this case the “understudied” giraffe, and feel through our very observation that we somehow confer existence upon them. But it is the other way around. Giraffes have been living their complex, elegant lives for millennia right under — or in this case right above — our noses, and their magnificent presence confers grace and light upon us. If only we could see without being so impressed with ourselves. Susan Hanger Topanga, Calif. Living With Cancer Handling Hair Loss Re “Hiding Under a Wig?” (nytimes.com/well, Oct. 9): I have terminal cancer, but I’m not afraid to acknowledge it or reveal its effects. No one should attempt to cover up or hide what in fact exists. Advertisement W.F. Murray, Nokomis, Fla., posted to nytimes.com Why did I? Because I have a job. In an office that requires a professional appearance. I needed the job to pay for the insurance to pay for the cancer treatments and to put food on the table for the kids, even when I didn’t feel like eating. Why did I wear one out of the house? Because I got tired of the stares and the rude questions. I only had so much energy and dealing with questions was not my job — getting through it intact in mind and spirit was. MMSoares, the PNW Mountains, posted to nytimes.com Just got back from picking up my washed and styled wig from Bitz-n-Pieces. I’ve been wearing it since July. It looks great and I get many compliments but I feel guilty because it’s much more stylish than my real hair. Many times I confess it’s a wig, so in a way I feel I’m getting both aspects — by not being immediately identified by all as a cancer patient and by telling some people that I am a cancer patient, which I’ve found doesn’t result in pity or a down conversation. Besides, going without anything on my head is cold. Advertisement Cintia, Manhattan, posted to nytimes.com Science Times welcomes letters, comments on nytimes.com and social media posts from readers. Email should be sent to scitimes@nytimes.com. A version of this letter appears in print on October 14, 2014, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Reactions.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »