Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
 HENRY FOUNTAIN
 
FEB. 1, 2010
 Around the tropics, there are hundreds of species of frogs that build their nest out of foam, as a home for eggs or larvae. Foam is a pretty flimsy building material, yet frog nests are not slapdash affairs. As Malcolm W. Kennedy and Laura Dalgetty of the University of Glasgow point out in a study published in Biology Letters, they are built in deliberate fashion with specific characteristics. The researchers looked at the tungara frog, Engystomops pustulosus, which is found in the Caribbean and Central America. It builds its nests in small puddles or ponds. Dr. Kennedy said the male did the foam-making, first taking a fluid from the female and mixing it with pond water to create a “raft” of sorts. The fluid includes surfactant molecules that reduce the surface tension of the water, making the foam. It also contains proteins that, by preventing infections and inhibiting enzymal action, protect eggs from pathogens in the water and the harsh tropical sunlight. Advertisement Once the raft is built, the female starts to deliver three or four eggs with each batch of fluid, and after fertilizing them, the male puts the eggs into the bulk of the nest as it is made. “You’d think that the eggs should be randomly mixed in, but they’re not,” Dr. Kennedy said. No eggs are placed in the outer half-inch or so of the mound, which forms a protective cover. Advertisement Dr. Kennedy said that further study of the female’s fluid might be worthwhile. “Here’s a compound that protects very sensitive cells against bacterial and fungal infection,” he said. “That kind of a cocktail of molecules could be really useful for medical purposes.” A version of this article appears in print on February 2, 2010, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: No Place Like Foam For Tropical Frogs.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »