Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
 HENRY FOUNTAIN
 
FEB. 15, 2010
 Greenland’s glaciers are melting faster than they used to, contributing to the rise of sea levels worldwide. While warmer atmospheric temperatures thin all the glaciers from above,  scientists have wondered if  warmer waters are also melting the many glaciers that  flow into the fjords. Two studies published in Nature Geoscience provide evidence that this is the case. In one study, Fiammetta Straneo of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution and colleagues looked at water temperatures and circulation in a fjord in East Greenland that is the terminus of Helheim glacier. They found that the 3,000-foot-deep fjord was continually being replenished with relatively warm (that is to say, 38 to 40 degrees Fahrenheit) water from the sea shelf beyond, driven by winds. They suggest that this warmer water is causing increased undersea melting of the glacier at its terminus and that the same phenomenon could be occurring at other glaciers as well. Atmospheric and oceanic changes are responsible, they say, because they have altered the properties of the shelf water and the wind patterns to cause more and warmer water to enter the fjord. The second study, by Eric Rignot of the University of California, Irvine, and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory and colleagues, looked at the rates of undersea melting at four glaciers in West Greenland. This isn’t easy to do: it involves measuring water velocity, temperature and salinity near the glacier front to determine the patterns of mixing and flow, and then calculating  melting rates. The researchers say that cold melt water from underneath the glacier combines with rising warmer, saltier water from the depths of the fjord. This rises along the underwater face of the glacier, melting it. The mixed waters then flow out into the glacier in a plume. They calculated the rates of undersea melting to be up to two orders of magnitude larger than surface melting rates. Taken together, the two studies suggest that fjords play an important role in the changes taking place in Greenland’s glaciers. A version of this article appears in print on February 16, 2010, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Fjords Contribute To Melting of Glaciers.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »