Advertisement By JANE E. BRODYAPRIL 26, 2010
 One of President George W. Bush’s most injudicious statements was his suggestion in 2007 that anyone who could not afford private medical care could always go to the emergency room. It is true that emergency rooms are open 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and are required by law to accept all comers regardless of their ability to pay (although many will do whatever they can to turn away those without insurance or cash unless they are critically ill or injured or brought in by ambulance). And in this no-house-calls era, doctors’ answering machines commonly advise their patients with a medical emergency to call 911 or go to the emergency room. But even people who have a personal physician are often inclined to go to the emergency room when they have a bad sore throat or a persistent cough and are unable to reach their own doctor. And as any responsible medical professional will tell you, emergency rooms are hardly the place to go for run-of-the-mill ailments. That is especially true now that millions of Americans have lost their jobs and the medical insurance that comes with them. Lacking any option, they are showing up in emergency rooms, contributing to ever-longer waits and a higher risk of cursory treatment by overworked doctors and nurses. Advertisement The new federal health care legislation should take some of the pressure off. It includes $11 billion to establish more than 1,200 community health centers to provide treatment — and, one would hope, preventive care — to low-income patients who now rely on emergency rooms for their health needs. Advertisement Evaluating Emergencies My family’s experience with emergency rooms better reflects when and how they should be used. For me: I suffered what turned out to be a hemorrhage in my ear on a flight to Arizona and, in the middle of the night, was in such pain I was banging my head against a concrete wall. Likewise, on a trip to Florida, while packing to go home, I threw my back out and couldn’t stand or walk despite a fistful of pain medication. For my son Erik: When he was 10, on a visit to Minnesota on Labor Day weekend, he suffered a terrible bite from a neighbor’s dog and was bleeding profusely from his ear and mouth. For my husband: In his 40s when he was still a smoker, he developed severe chest pain which, fortunately, turned out not to be a heart attack. Decades later, during treatment for cancer, he awoke one morning unable to walk and his oncologist said to call an ambulance because he was at risk of paralysis. For my grandson Stefan: At age 6, he fell from a monkey bar in the schoolyard and broke his arm. For my daughter-in-law Kris: At a skating party, she fell backward on her head and blacked out, unable to recall what had happened. In a real emergency, like severe chest pain, difficulty breathing or profuse bleeding, the fastest route to care is to call 911 for an ambulance. The patient will be taken directly to an E.R. bed and evaluated immediately. Even before arrival, the ambulance personnel will have alerted the emergency room to the patient’s condition and expected time of arrival so that the proper help will be on hand without delay. For those who come to an emergency room on their own or are taken by a relative or friend, personnel at the front desk will ask about symptoms to determine if immediate care is needed. If not, a triage nurse will assess the patient’s condition to assure that the sickest people are seen first.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Thus, you will not necessarily be taken in the order of arrival and you might have to wait a long time — even hours — to be seen by a doctor if your condition is not deemed serious by the triage nurse. Advertisement My son, husband and daughter-in-law were seen right away because their symptoms warranted immediate attention. But despite excruciating pain, my grandson and I had to wait; our symptoms were not considered a threat to life or limb. As the demand for emergency room services rises, the waiting times can get longer and longer, sometimes reaching as long as eight hours, with occasional horror stories of patients who die while waiting to see a doctor. When to Go In his well-researched book “The Essential Hospital Handbook” (Yale University Press, 2009), Patrick Conlon lists the following conditions to help people determine who should go to the E.R., based on recommendations from the American College of Emergency Physicians: ¶Difficulty breathing. ¶Chest or upper abdominal pain or pressure. ¶Fainting, sudden dizziness, weakness. ¶Changes in vision. ¶Confusion or changes in mental state. ¶Any sudden or severe pain. ¶Uncontrolled bleeding. ¶Severe or persistent vomiting or diarrhea. ¶Coughing or vomiting blood. ¶Suicidal feelings. ¶Difficulty speaking. ¶Shortness of breath. ¶Unusual abdominal pain. In addition, children should be taken to the emergency room if they persistently refuse to eat or drink (especially under age 5) or have persistent fever above 100.4. Mr. Conlon writes that the E.R. is seldom the right place for people with minor burns or injuries; sprains or strains; coughs, colds or sore throats; ear infections; fever (except as noted above) or flulike symptoms; skin irritations and rashes; mild asthma or any chronic health problem. Yet the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality reports that among the top reasons people seek emergency care are sprains, strains, bruises and other superficial injuries. (Chest and abdominal pain, legitimate reasons for seeking emergency care, are the others.) Minor ailments like sore throats and infections are not high on the list, but people with such complaints contribute to long waits for everyone in the E.R. When emergency care is needed and time permits, Mr. Conlon suggests considering what to take and what to leave at home. Bring a list of any medications and over-the-counter remedies the patient takes; the name and phone number of the family doctor; proof of insurance; a brief health history; enough cash for incidentals; plenty of reading material; and, I would add, a fully charged cellphone. But leave home all jewelry and other valuables. Advertisement Finally, don’t be afraid to speak up if symptoms get significantly worse or intolerable while you are waiting. Check periodically with the desk personnel to remind them why you are there. A version of this article appears in print on April 27, 2010, on Page D7 of the New York edition with the headline: Save Emergency Rooms for Emergencies.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »