Advertisement 

 Claudia Dreifus
 
 
A CONVERSATION WITH
APRIL 26, 2010
 Dr. Alan Guttmacher, a Harvard-trained geneticist and pediatrician, is the new acting director of the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, the federal agency that finances research into child and maternal health. Dr. Guttmacher, 60,  previously worked with Francis Collins on the Human Genome Project and then as the deputy director of the National Human Genome Research Institute of the National Institutes of Health. We spoke for three hours in his Bethesda, Md., offices and then later by telephone. An edited version of the conversations follows. Q. DID YOU ALWAYS WANT TO BE A PHYSICIAN? A. I grew up among doctors. My father was a forensic psychiatrist. His patients included Al Capone and Jack Ruby. My mother is a child and adolescent psychiatrist. Three of my father’s four children went into medicine. And my father’s twin brother, Alan Guttmacher, was a famous obstetrician-gynecologist. It was all over the family. When I was still a young man, both my father and my uncle died of leukemia, and that really put me off to the idea of a medical career. I thought, “Spending a life in medicine means watching patients die, again and again. Who would want this?” Eventually, though, I chose pediatrics because there you get to see the kids grow. In most cases, if you can fend off bad things for long enough, the kids will do fine. Q. YOUR UNCLE WAS THE PRESIDENT OF PLANNED PARENTHOOD AND A TOWERING FIGURE IN THE REPRODUCTIVE RIGHTS MOVEMENT. HAS THERE BEEN ANY CRITICISM OF APPOINTING ANYONE NAMED ALAN GUTTMACHER TO THIS POST? Advertisement A. I have not been aware of any. The name does stand for something. Planned Parenthood was more of a social movement until my uncle said, “If we’re making all these decisions, we need to make sure that it is backed up by good scientific information.” So he started the think tank that became known as the Guttmacher Institute. One finds that people know the name primarily because of that. But people on both sides of the abortion debate tend to use their data as the reliable data. So, to some degree, my appointment has been less controversial than some might think. Advertisement Q. HOW DID YOU GET YOUR UNCLE’S NAME? A. He and my father were twins. All of Alan Guttmacher’s children were girls. So my father made this gesture. They were incredibly close. Q. YOUR INSTITUTE FINANCES CONTRACEPTIVE RESEARCH. IS THERE MUCH NEW WORK HAPPENING IN THIS AREA? A. I think so. For 2009, N.I.C.H.D.’s funding for research on reproductive health totaled more than $254 million. We’ve been supporting a number of studies on the basic biology of ovulation. Understanding ovulation may lead to knowledge about why it sometimes fails to take place. That could eventually lead to fertility treatments or new ways to halt ovulation. Also, we’ve been funding research into contraception for men. N.I.C.H.D. has supported research targeting ion channels to interfere with sperm motility. There are other projects on temporarily shutting down sperm production in the testes. Still yet another project is attempting to interfere with the sperm’s ability to find the egg. Something currently in clinical trials involves shutting down sperm production. Unfortunately, the method also shuts down testosterone production. So you’d have to get replacement hormones. Would a significant number of men be willing to go to their doctors every few months for testosterone shots or implants? And will manufacturers be convinced that enough men would do that, to make it worth their while? Time will tell.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Q. WHAT IS YOUR RESEARCH SPECIALTY? A. Well, unlike most N.I.H. directors, I’m not someone whose claim to fame is in research. My claim is thinking about health care and doing it. However, I was part of a team that located the genes of HHT, hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia, an inherited condition that can cause fatal lung and brain hemorrhaging. In 1987, when I was teaching pediatrics at the University of Vermont, this guy from the University of Michigan asked if he could come by and visit on the way to a conference. A few weeks later, he was in my office, saying that his lab was searching for the genes for cystic fibrosis and for HHT. Did I know that in Vermont there was this large family with HHT, maybe the largest documented family with it in the world? I did know. When I was fixing up my office, I found these three grocery bags from a previous occupant filled with documents and pedigrees for a Vermont family with HHT. I’d saved them. So my visitor looked over these pedigrees and asked, “Would you be willing to find these people, get their medical histories, examine them, get some blood for DNA and tell us which ones have the disease.” So that’s what we did. And between this family and another one in Michigan, we were able to locate the gene. Today, there is a diagnostic test for HHT. What makes this story interesting is that this guy from Michigan was Francis Collins. Q. AUTISM IS PART OF YOUR INSTITUTE’S PORTFOLIO. IS IT, AS SOME THINK, AN EPIDEMIC? A. Depends on how you define “epidemic.” We have new estimates from the C.D.C. showing that 1 in 110 children develop something along the spectrum of conditions that we call autism disorders. That’s higher than previously thought. Is it really more common than it used to be? Or, are we just getting better at recognizing it? The jury is still out. For us here at N.I.C.H.D., a research priority is to find out more about the biological roots of the different types of autism. Understanding that will help with finding effective treatments because what works for one doesn’t necessary work for all. Fortunately, since we now have the human genome mapped, we’ll be able to move faster. Many of the different types of autism are either genetic or triggered by environmental factors and a genetic predisposition. Advertisement Q. YOU’VE HAD YOUR OWN PERSONAL EXPERIENCES WITH GENETIC DISEASES, HAVEN’T YOU? A. Yes. A decade ago I suffered a near fatal heart attack and then five years later I was diagnosed with leukemia. My only risk factor for either was family history. It’s ironic. In a family of physicians, I’m the only medical geneticist. And I’m the one who’s inherited the diseases. Both illnesses have given me a sense of the importance of the work we do  at the N.I.H. I have, for instance, the feeling that kids growing up today with my family’s genetic history won’t get leukemia when they reach my age. Because of breakthroughs in genetics and personalized medicine, there will be ways to prevent it from ever getting this far. Q. YOU LOOK HEALTHY. A. I feel healthy. Living with chronic disease, it’s common nowadays, especially here in the United States. I go about my daily life without compromise. I run about 30 miles a week. I’ve told my oncologist that it’s his job to make sure I die of a heart attack. And I’ve told my cardiologist that it’s his job to see that I die of leukemia. Occasionally, one or other will raise its ugly head and I’ll have to pay attention for a little while. The other side is that it makes you appreciate every day. I got the heart attack right before my 50th birthday and I hadn’t intended to make much of a fuss. All it means is that you got up every morning for 50 years. But after nearly dying, my wife and I put on a big celebration. Getting up every morning is a big deal! A version of this article appears in print on April 27, 2010, on Page D2 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »