Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
 HENRY FOUNTAIN
 
AUG. 14, 2007
 Glaciers aren’t necessarily forever, as the world is learning in this era of climate change. While many scientists analyze the causes of glacial retreat, others study the effects. One issue is succession: how is newly exposed ground repopulated by plant and animal life? The common understanding has been that algae, lichens, mosses and other plants take over first, as they can make their food from sunlight. Only when the vegetation starts to decompose do microbes like bacteria and fungi enter the picture, as they now have something to feed on. But new research is standing that assumption on its head, finding microbes in freshly deglaciated terrain that is devoid of vegetation. The latest study, by Richard D. Bardgett of Lancaster University in England and colleagues and published in Biology Letters, shows what those microbes are feeding on: ancient carbon. The researchers studied soils near the Ödenwinkelkees glacier, high in the Austrian Alps, that has been retreating by an average of 35 feet per year since 1850 (for reasons that have nothing to do with global climate change). They sampled plots that had been glacier-free for as long as 149 years and as short as 3 years. Advertisement Dr. Bardgett said the youngest sites were hostile environments, mostly rock and gravel with  little soil. “We would assume that these are sterile places,” he said. “Yet they have small but very diverse microbial communities.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. These bacteria and fungi were consuming what little organic carbon there was in the surrounding soil. The researchers found that the carbon was on average about 7,000 years old and consisted mostly of “recalcitrant” plant matter like lignin that is difficult to break down. Only in plots that had been exposed for 50 years or more did the researchers find that the microbes were consuming carbon from recent vegetation. While they cannot pinpoint the source of this ancient organic matter, the researchers say it could be remnants of vegetation from a previous glacier-free period. The bacteria and fungi could be munching on extremely old leftovers. Advertisement Whatever the source, the finding that a diverse array of microbes appears first was a surprise. “It’s almost like there’s a stage that precedes succession,” Dr. Bardgett said. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F3 of the New York edition with the headline: After Glacial Retreat, Regrowth May Feed On an Ancient Snack.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »