Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

OCT. 28, 2008
 If you don't use up a box of mushrooms right away they may start to dry up, but you shouldn't toss them out.  Mushrooms reconstitute and although they won't look as pretty as firm, moist, fresh ones, they'll cook up fine. If you've got a half-pound -- the contents of most boxes packed for supermarkets -- cook them in olive oil with garlic and herbs and toss them with pasta, serve as a side dish, or spoon over fish or chicken breasts. Mushrooms are low in calories and packed with nutrients. They're an excellent source of B vitamins and minerals including selenium, copper, potassium, phosphorous, zinc, and manganese, and they also contain a powerful antioxidant called L-ergothioneine. Throughout Asia, they're revered for their immune-boosting properties. They also contain more protein than most vegetables, and their meaty texture makes them a good choice for vegetarians. Shiitake, maitake, oyster and king oyster mushrooms contain the highest amount of L-ergothioneine, but criminis, portabellas, and white button mushrooms are also good sources. With one exception this week's recipes will focus on the most commonly available mushrooms, the kind that might be shriveling in your refrigerator right now. Quick Pan-Cooked Mushrooms Prepared this way, mushrooms can complement chicken, fish, or pasta. The dish looks prettier when you use fresh, juicier mushrooms, but it's delicious even if the vegetables aren't at their freshest. 1 pound white or cremini mushrooms, rinsed briefly and wiped dry 2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil Salt and freshly ground pepper Advertisement 2 shallots, minced 2 to 4 garlic cloves (to taste), minced 2 teaspoons chopped fresh thyme or rosemary (or a combination), or 1/2 to 1 teaspoon dried  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 1/4 cup dry white wine, such as Sauvignon blanc 1. Trim off the ends of the mushrooms and cut in thick slices. Heat a large, heavy frying pan over medium-high heat and add 1 tablespoon of the olive oil. When the oil is hot (you can feel the heat when you hold your hand above the pan), add the mushrooms and cook, stirring or tossing in the pan, for a few minutes, until they begin to soften and sweat. Add the remaining oil, turn the heat to medium, and add the shallots, garlic, and herbs. Stir together, add 1/2 teaspoon salt and freshly ground pepper to taste, and cook, stirring often, for another 1 to 2 minutes, until the shallots and garlic have softened and the mixture is fragrant. Add the wine and cook, stirring often and scraping the bottom of the pan, until the wine has evaporated. Taste and adjust seasonings. Remove from the heat and serve. Yield: Serves 4 Advance preparation: You can make these several hours ahead and reheat. If they dry out, add a little water, stock, or wine to the pan when you reheat. Advertisement Pasta With Quick Pan-Cooked Mushrooms Bring a large pot of water to a boil for the pasta while you cook the mushrooms as instructed above. Salt the water generously and add 12 ounces of pasta for 4 servings. Shortly before the pasta is ready to drain, remove 1/2 cup pasta-cooking water from the pot, stir it into the mushrooms and heat through. Drain the pasta when cooked al dente and toss in the pan with the mushrooms. Add 1 to 2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley and serve, passing freshly grated Parmesan to sprinkle on top. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »