Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu.  Hearty Quinoa and White Bean Soup By Jeff Gordinier 45 minutes Trending Chocolate Cupcakes for Almost Everybody By Pete Wells 40 minutes Trending Zucchini Pancakes By Elaine Louie 30 minutes Trending Swiss Chard Slab Pie By Tejal Rao 1 1/2 hours Trending Pan-Seared Salmon With Celery, Olives and Capers By Yotam Ottolenghi 45 minutes Trending Spicy Roasted Shrimp and Broccoli Rabe By Melissa Clark 20 minutes Trending Pappardelle With Pancetta and Peas By David Tanis 30 minutes easy Masala Winter Squash By Mark Bittman 40 minutes healthy Quinoa and Squash Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman 50 minutes healthy Bean Soup With Cabbage, Winter Squash and Farro By Martha Rose Shulman 3 hours 45 minutes healthy Mixed Bean and Winter Squash Stew with Fresh Basil By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours 30 minutes  Andean Dusk By Robert Simonson  Hearty Quinoa and White Bean Soup By Jeff Gordinier 45 minutes Trending Chocolate Cupcakes for Almost Everybody By Pete Wells 40 minutes Trending Zucchini Pancakes By Elaine Louie 30 minutes Trending Swiss Chard Slab Pie By Tejal Rao 1 1/2 hours Trending Pan-Seared Salmon With Celery, Olives and Capers By Yotam Ottolenghi 45 minutes Trending Spicy Roasted Shrimp and Broccoli Rabe By Melissa Clark 20 minutes Trending Pappardelle With Pancetta and Peas By David Tanis 30 minutes easy Masala Winter Squash By Mark Bittman 40 minutes healthy Quinoa and Squash Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman 50 minutes healthy Bean Soup With Cabbage, Winter Squash and Farro By Martha Rose Shulman 3 hours 45 minutes healthy Mixed Bean and Winter Squash Stew with Fresh Basil By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours 30 minutes  Andean Dusk By Robert Simonson  Hearty Quinoa and White Bean Soup By Jeff Gordinier 45 minutes Trending Chocolate Cupcakes for Almost Everybody By Pete Wells 40 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   This savory, filling pot of beans is inspired by a Chilean bean stew. I’ve substituted quinoa for the corn that the authentic version calls for. Make it a day ahead for the best flavor. 
Featured in: 
Quinoa: A Protein Packed Alternative To Grains. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Vegan
 By Sam Sifton 1 1/2 hours By Melissa Clark 30 minutes By Tara Parker-Pope 1 hour 45 minutes By Tara Parker-Pope About 30 minutes, plus 2 hours' freezing By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour, plus 4 hours' marinating By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Sam Sifton
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Julia Moskin
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.