Advertisement By JOHN SCHWARTZAUG. 11, 2008
 Hopes have faded that NASA can greatly narrow a five-year gap between the last space shuttle flight in 2010 and the debut of the next generation of spacecraft, with an agency official saying Monday that budget realities make the most ambitious date  unrealistic. The first phase of the new program, known as Constellation, includes the Ares I launch vehicle and a capsule, Orion. Although planners have said that the first human flights will take place five years after the shuttle program is shut down, agency officials have said that with more money and some luck, the launching could begin as early as 2013. Additional money has not appeared, said Jeff Hanley, the program manager for Constellation at the  Johnson Space Center in Houston, in a teleconference with reporters on Monday, and the “unknown unknowns” that crop up in any development effort have made the early date unrealistic. So the agency is pushing back its earliest possible human flights  by a year, from 2013 to 2014, but the commitment  of 2015 for human flight in Orion has not changed. “I would say that our confidence that the gap will get no worse than five years has actually improved,” Mr. Hanley said. Advertisement The briefing occurred the same day that a NASA advisory panel released an annual report that  sharply questioned the Constellation effort. Advertisement NASA’s Aerospace Safety Advisory Panel report said that members had found “surprising anxiety” among NASA employees concerning the Constellation program; early stages of program development, the report said, “are usually marked by enthusiasm and optimism.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Echoing the findings of others who have looked at the program, the report suggested that “the rationale for the program may not be sufficiently understood or accepted within the organization.” The report also questioned NASA’s approach to safety with the new Orion vehicle. Historically, the panel said, safety systems are included in the designs   from the start. But weight problems in the early development of the Orion capsule led program managers to start with a clean slate approach in which a safety system had to “earn its way” into the design. “When safety elements have to ‘earn their way’ onto a design that has already begun to take shape, objectivity and consistency in the decision-making could be compromised,” the panel said. Mr. Hanley, when asked about the report, said, “we will adjust our plan accordingly based on their advice if we find it to be sound.” But, he said, the agency is seeking new ways to build safety into its craft, and should not be bound by old restrictions. “To just cookbook it, and to just say three of everything is the safest way, that is not the right answer,” he said. There will always be dissent, he said, but “If we tried to please everybody, the spacecraft would never get off the ground.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »