Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
 HENRY FOUNTAIN
 
AUG. 11, 2008
 Like many other plants, the chili has a strategy for survival: make its fruit, the pepper, so nutritionally desirable that birds and other creatures will eat it and disperse the seeds. But the same things that make a chili pepper attractive to animals also draw bacteria and funguses that can kill the seeds. It has  been thought that the chemicals known as capsaicinoids, which surround the seeds and give peppers their characteristic heat, are the chili’s way of deterring microbes. But if so, then microbial infestation should bring selective pressure on chilis — the more bugs, the hotter the peppers should be. That has never been shown in the wild. Now, however, in a study of wild chili plants, Joshua J. Tewksbury of the University of Washington and colleagues show that the variation in heat reflects the risk that the plants will be attacked by a seed-destroying fungus. The researchers studied a species in Bolivia (where chilis are thought to have originated) that was earlier determined to be polymorphic — some plants produce hot peppers, while identical plants produce fruit that have no heat at all. The new research showed that in populations of the plant across Bolivia, the proportion of hot and not-hot plants varied. Advertisement “In some areas, all plants will be hot, and they’re superhot,” Dr. Tewksbury said. “But move south, and more and more nonpungent plants show up. In some populations, 90 percent have no heat at all.” The researchers showed that peppers in the more humid and wet north had more evidence of infection by a fungus that killed seeds, introduced to the fruits by insects that bored into them. In the drier south, there were fewer insects and less fungal infection. Advertisement The findings, reported in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, “tell us with much more certainty why chilis are hot in the first place,” Dr. Tewksbury said.  “When you have greater selection pressure for protection, you get greater protection.” A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F3 of the New York edition with the headline: The Greater the Threat, The Hotter the Chili.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »