Advertisement By RONI CARYN RABINDEC. 4, 2008
 Health Care Reform Goes Viral The incoming administration is using some of the high-tech tools perfected in the campaign -- such as online videos, e-mail messages and blogs -- to recruit supporters interested in health care reform, The Washington Post reports. Incoming Health and Human Services Secretary Thomas Daschle held a conference call yesterday with 1,000 supporters interested in the subject. Cholera Emergency Swamps Zimbabwe A cholera epidemic is raging through Zimbabwe, and authorities have declared a national emergency, asking for international aid to buy food, medicine and hospital equipment, the Associated Press reports. Report: Woman Who Died in L.A. Emergency Room Could Have Been Saved A Los Angeles County report that was inadvertently made public acknowledged that a 43-year-old woman who died last year after writhing in pain for nearly an hour at Martin Luther King Jr.-Harbor Medical Center could have been saved. Edith Rodriguez died of a perforated bowel in the waiting room, while a janitor and nursing personnel walked around her, The Los Angeles Times reports. Maker of Children’s Shoes Sued A Pennsylvania mother has sued makers of Crocs shoes for $7.5 million after her six-year-old’s foot was trapped in an escalator at the Baltimore aquarium last spring and mangled his toe, The Baltimore Sun reports. The woman claims the manufacturer should have warned that the clog-like shoes, made of foam, are not safe for riding escalators. Video Ads for Medical Devices May Violate Law Ads for medical devices on YouTube may violate federal law because they don’t carry required warnings about side effects, an advocacy group warned. Among the ads criticized are those run by Abbott Laboratories for a drug-coated heart stent, by Medtronic Inc. for a spinal implant and by Stryker Corp. for a hip-resurfacing system, The Wall Street Journal reports. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »