Advertisement By RONI CARYN RABINNOV. 24, 2008
 Older adults whose parents lived 100 years or longer are healthier than others their age and have dramatically lower risks of heart attack, stroke, diabetes or dying from any other cause, researchers at the Boston University School of Medicine report in a new study. Still, the healthy seniors appeared to be just as susceptible as their peers to other illnesses, including hypertension, heart arrhythmias, dementia, cancer, depression, bone fractures, glaucoma, macular degeneration, osteoporosis and thyroid disease, according to the study, which appeared in The Journal of The American Geriatrics Society. The finding lends credence to the idea that a predisposition to a long lifespan may be inherited, the investigators said, and suggests that it may be due in large part to protection from cardiovascular disease. “The most dramatic difference we’ve seen among centenarian offspring, one that’s been consistent throughout the period we’ve been following them, is the decreased prevalence of heart disease and its risk factors,” said Dr. Dellara F. Terry, assistant professor of medicine at Boston University School of Medicine and the paper’s lead author. Advertisement The study followed 440 adult children of centenarians and 192 of their peers for an average of 3.5 years. The median age of all participants was 72 at the beginning of the study. They were “survivors who had lived to a reasonably old age,” Dr. Terry said. Advertisement After accounting for a variety of other factors that affect death rates, the researchers found that the children of centenarians were 78 percent less likely to have heart attacks, 83 percent less likely to have strokes and 86 percent less likely to develop diabetes, compared to those with shorter-lived parents. The children of long-lived parents were 81 percent less likely to die from any cause during the study period, the researchers found. But whether the subjects’ hardiness is due to family genetics or to healthful habits acquired from their parents in childhood is hard to say, Dr. Terry acknowledged.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “Just because something is familial doesn’t mean it’s all genetic,” she said. “It could be there are health-related behaviors they have learned from their parents. It’s also possible it’s genes, or the absence of bad genes, they inherited from their parents.” “My personal feeling is it’s probably a mixture of behavior and genes and the environment,” she added. Similar findings were reported in an earlier study of the children of centenarians who were part of the Longevity Genes Project at Yeshiva University. In that study, the adult children of long-lived parents suffered no strokes at all, as well as 50 percent fewer cases of diabetes, 60 percent fewer heart attacks and 23 percent fewer cases of hypertension, compared to a control group of their spouses. That study, authored by Dr. Nir Barzilai, director of the Institute for Aging Research at the university’s Albert Einstein College of Medicine, also looked back at the parents of centenarians and found that they were seven times more likely than their peers to have had parents who lived until they were in their 90s. “What we’re doing now is identifying longevity genes,” Dr. Barzilai said, adding that having parents who lived to 100 also seemed to predict protection against age-related cognitive impairment. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »