Advertisement By NICHOLAS BAKALARNOV. 24, 2008
 Danish researchers have found that statins, the drugs widely used to control cholesterol, may have another beneficial effect: lowering the risk of death from pneumonia. Scientists examined medical records of 29,000 Danish patients hospitalized for pneumonia over a six-year period. Using regional prescription databases, they found 1,372 who had filled prescriptions for statins within four months of being admitted. Then they calculated mortality rates for statin users and nonusers. After controlling for age, sex, heart disease, stroke, pulmonary illness, diabetes and 15 other disorders, they found that among statin users the odds of death were reduced by 31 percent within the first 30 days after admission and 25 percent within 90 days. The study, published Oct. 27 in The Archives of Internal Medicine, includes a large number of subjects, and very accurate records of diagnosis, hospital discharge dates and statin use, all of which give it considerable strength. Advertisement Previous investigations of statins’ effect on pneumonia have produced mixed results, and the reasons for the Danish results are unclear. An editorial published with the study suggests that the drugs modify the production of certain proteins that cause the inflammatory response. Advertisement These same proteins may also be used by bacteria to help them enter cells and reproduce. By lowering the production of these substances, statins may reduce the number of bacteria that can gain entry into cells. A study published online Nov. 9 in The New England Journal of Medicine suggested that statins’ anti-inflammatory properties might be useful in lowering the risk of heart disease, stroke and death even in patients with low cholesterol.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The average age of statin users in the Danish study was 73, and more than 60 percent were taking simvastatin, a drug sold in the United States as Zocor. Statin users may be a generally healthier population that has had better preventive health care than nonusers, and would therefore be more likely to survive pneumonia in any case. But, the authors write, Denmark’s universal health care system makes this conclusion unlikely. Still, Dr. Reimar W. Thomsen, the lead author, advised caution in interpreting the finding. “Our results show that the chance of survival of infection might be better if you are already taking statins,” he said, “but it’s too early to make recommendations about starting statin use to prevent infection. You should take statins for the present indications only.” Dr. Thomsen is a clinical associate professor of epidemiology at Aarhus University Hospital in Aalborg, Denmark. Other experts found the work convincing. “This is a rigorous study,” said Dr. Eric M. Mortensen, who has done research in the same field. “It has solved some of the problems of previous work, and I agree with its conclusions,” said Dr. Mortensen, an assistant professor of medicine at the University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, who was not involved in the Danish study. The Danish government paid for the study, and there was no pharmaceutical industry involvement. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D6 of the New York edition with the headline: Statins May Lower Odds of Pneumonia Death.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »