Advertisement By ERIC NAGOURNEYSEPT. 1, 2008
 People who are under age or visibly intoxicated can often buy alcohol at ballgames with ease, especially from vendors in the stands, according to a new study based on visits to 16 stadiums in five  states. The study, which appears in the journal Alcoholism: Clinical and Experimental Research, found that alcohol was sold to 18 percent of the testers who appeared under age and 74 percent of the testers who appeared intoxicated. To test sales to minors, the study used people who were legally old enough to buy alcohol but looked younger. They were told to say they did not have identification with them if asked for proof of age. To see how hard it was for the inebriated to buy drinks — a violation of the law in most states — the study hired male and female actors based on how convincing they were at appearing drunk. Advertisement Although the stadiums were not named in the study, the researchers said they were home to hockey, basketball, baseball and football games.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The lead author, Traci L. Toomey of the University of Minnesota, said vendors in the stands had a tough job, often having to make customer assessments in distracting situations. Still, she said, this may be an area where stadium managers can improve. “Are they really doing a good job and training people how to identify intoxicated people, how to refuse those sales?” she asked. “And then are the managers backing them up?” Advertisement Stadiums should also consider banning alcohol sales in the stands, the researchers said. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F6 of the New York edition with the headline: Stadiums Sell Alcohol to Young and Drunk.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »