Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu.  Lettuce and Potato Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes Trending Classic Marinara Sauce By Julia Moskin 25 minutes Trending Sweet and Spicy Roast Chicken By Melissa Clark 1 hour 15 minutes, plus at least 30 minutes’ marinating Trending Caramelized Onion Dip With Frizzled Leeks By Mark Bittman 2 hours Trending Slow-Baked Beans With Kale By Martha Rose Shulman 3 hours 45 minutes Trending Penne Alla Vodka By Nigella Lawson 45 minutes Trending Cowboy Cookies By Marian Burros 35 minutes  Potato Salad Vinaigrette By William Norwich About 45 minutes  Celery Root-Potato Purée By David Tanis About 30 minutes healthy Southwestern Potato and Celery Omelet By Martha Rose Shulman About 15 minutes healthy Celery Root, Potato and Apple Purée By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes  Pureed Red Pepper and Potato Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes  Lettuce and Potato Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes Trending Classic Marinara Sauce By Julia Moskin 25 minutes Trending Sweet and Spicy Roast Chicken By Melissa Clark 1 hour 15 minutes, plus at least 30 minutes’ marinating Trending Caramelized Onion Dip With Frizzled Leeks By Mark Bittman 2 hours Trending Slow-Baked Beans With Kale By Martha Rose Shulman 3 hours 45 minutes Trending Penne Alla Vodka By Nigella Lawson 45 minutes Trending Cowboy Cookies By Marian Burros 35 minutes  Potato Salad Vinaigrette By William Norwich About 45 minutes  Celery Root-Potato Purée By David Tanis About 30 minutes healthy Southwestern Potato and Celery Omelet By Martha Rose Shulman About 15 minutes healthy Celery Root, Potato and Apple Purée By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes  Pureed Red Pepper and Potato Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes  Lettuce and Potato Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes Trending Classic Marinara Sauce By Julia Moskin 25 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   This light puree is more celery than potato. The potato thickens the soup, a simple potage that is brought to life by the tiny amount of walnut oil that’s drizzled onto each serving. 
Featured in: 
What To Do With The Rest Of That Celery. 
   

Learn: How to Make Soup
 
Vegetarian,
                    Vegan
 By Melissa Clark 45 minutes By Tara Parker-Pope About 2 hours By Florence Fabricant 1 hour By Jennifer Steinhauer 1 hour By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus at least 5 hours' chilling By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/4 hours, plus 1 1/2 hours' cooling By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour, plus 4 hours' marinating Cooking Guide 
          By Samin Nosrat
         Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.