Advertisement By OHN MARSEPT. 1, 2008
 After his victory in a judo match, the athlete thrust his arms into the air in an elated V — the universal symbol of triumph, something he had seen other athletes do thousands of times. Except for one thing: he couldn’t see. The event was the 2004 Paralympics in Athens, the Olympics for disabled athletes, and this athlete had been blind since birth. Similarly, his congenitally blind opponent’s shoulders slumped and his posture shrank in a gesture of defeat — again, something he had never witnessed. Scientists have long assumed that the universally recognized nonverbal expressions associated with pride and shame are not innate, but rather acquired through interaction with other people. But a new study of athletes at the 2004 Olympics and Paralympics suggests that in fact, those gestures may be biologically based. The researchers, Jessica L. Tracy, an assistant professor of psychology at the University of British Columbia, and David Matsumoto, a psychology professor at San Francisco State University, examined the spontaneous reactions of blind and sighted athletes from 37 countries. All were photographed during and immediately after a match, and the images were later coded for pride- and shame-related behaviors. (To guard against bias, neither the photographers nor the students who coded the images knew the subject of the research.) In an article in the Aug. 19 issue of The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, the researchers reported that blind athletes’ behavior and gestures on winning and losing were remarkably similar to those of sighted athletes. Advertisement Nonverbal expressions for pride — like an expanded chest, a tilted head and raised hands — are seen among primates, 4-year-olds and individuals from isolated and preliterate communities, suggesting that this behavioral attribute is universal, the researchers said. A diminished posture and slumped shoulders, by contrast, display submissiveness. Advertisement “These findings raise the possibility that pride and shame behavioral responses may be human universals, evolved to serve unique adaptive functions,” the researchers wrote.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. While the study on congenitally blind subjects suggests that such demonstrations arise from inborn traits, the reactions of the sighted athletes did show that culture and society can have an influence. Sighted contestants from individualist nations, like those in North America and Western Europe, displayed significantly lower shame response than the others, the researchers said, perhaps because of cultural norms that stigmatize shame. Sighted athletes from Asian countries and blind athletes were more likely to display shame. But over all, the researchers wrote, “in almost all cases pride-relevant behaviors were shown to a greater extent in response to winning than losing within each culture group.” A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F5 of the New York edition with the headline: Proud Is Proud, Sighted Or Not, Researchers Find.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »