Advertisement By DENISE GRADYSEPT. 8, 2008
 An unsettling fact about lung cancer is that not even clean living can guarantee a free pass. A significant proportion of cases — 10 to 15 percent — occur in people who never smoked, and just in the United States, 16,000 to 24,000 a year die. What causes the disease in nonsmokers is not known, though researchers suspect genetic susceptibility combined with exposure to cancer-causing substances like asbestos, radon, certain solvents and other people’s tobacco smoke. A huge new study conducted in Europe, North America and Asia, based on 2.4 million nonsmokers   who had lung cancer, provides new information about just who is at risk. Male nonsmokers are more likely than female nonsmokers to die of the disease, the study found, and the overall  risk to nonsmokers is not increasing. Advertisement “Concerns have been raised that the risk was higher in women and that the risk was increasing, but this study counters those two misperceptions,” said Dr. Michael J. Thun, the lead author of the study and the head of epidemiologic research for the American Cancer Society. The study is being published online in PLoS Medicine. Advertisement Dr. Thun emphasized that although nonsmokers do have some risk, smokers are much worse off: a man who never smoked has a 1.1 in 100 risk of dying from lung cancer, but it jumps to 1 in 5 if he smokes. In women, the risk goes from 0.8 in 100 to 1 in 8. The figures vary, depending on how much a person smokes.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Today, about 59 percent of people in the United States say they never smoked, up from 44 percent in 1960. The study found that among those who never smoked, Asians living in Asia (not those in the United States) and African-Americans had higher rates of illness and death from lung cancer than did people of European descent. A puzzling and troubling finding is relatively high rates of lung cancer among nonsmoking women in parts of Pacific Rim countries. “A plausible hypothesis is that the cooking fumes given off by woks contain all kinds of carcinogens,” Dr. Thun said, adding that the most likely culprit was cooking oil, which vaporizes at high temperatures. But he said the problem needed more research. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F7 of the New York edition with the headline: A Look at Nonsmokers Who Get Lung Cancer.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »