Advertisement By JANE E. BRODYSEPT. 15, 2008
 Sara Sloan could be the star of an advertisement  for weight-reduction surgery.   This 58-year-old retired teacher from Brooklyn had been “the heaviest kid in kindergarten, heavy my whole life,” she said, until she underwent gastric bypass surgery in May 2004 and lost 128 pounds in less than a year. “I had tried just about everything to lose weight: Weight Watchers, Overeaters Anonymous, even speed when doctors were prescribing it in the ’60s,” Ms. Sloan recalled. “I’d lose weight, but then gain it back and eventually topped out at 258 pounds on a 5-foot-1-inch frame in the winter of ’03-’04.” For more than two and a half years she has maintained her new weight of 130, within a 3-pound range, by following all the rules suggested for people who undergo bariatric surgery, which  in most cases reduces the stomach to a tiny pouch and bypasses part of the small intestine. “I can’t imagine going through this surgery, then letting yourself gain the weight back,” Ms. Sloan said in a recent interview. “I’ve been on seven cruises since the bypass without gaining.” Advertisement Proper Maintenance  Her method? Discipline and determination. “None of this is rocket science,” she said. “I keep a food diary every day and hand it in to a nutritionist I see once a month. I don’t go crazy weighing and measuring everything, but I eat child-size portions  —  a 6-year-old child, not a 10-year-old. I eat slowly and chew my food thoroughly. Advertisement “I eat pretty much a whole variety of foods and drink wine occasionally. But I don’t eat high-sugar foods like ice cream and candy except once in a while, and I can’t tolerate fried foods at all. I carry cereal bars and small baggies of cashews for snacks. When I eat out, I take home most of the meal and repackage it into proper portion sizes.” And she exercises. “They do tell you to walk a lot, at least 15 minutes three times a week, which is not adequate exercise for anyone,” she said. “I swim laps five days a week, lift weights a couple of times a week and walk a tremendous amount.  I don’t own a car.” If not for the scars on her legs and abdomen where excess skin was removed after her  weight loss, no one would ever guess that this lean, well-muscled woman was once terribly obese. About 15 million Americans are morbidly obese, with a body mass index  of 40 or more. Last year, the American Society of Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery estimates, 205,000 people   underwent surgery to help them lose 100 or more pounds that they had been unable to shed and keep off any other way. The various types of operations reduce the amount people can consume at a given time and the amount of digested food they can absorb, by creating a much smaller stomach and bypassing part of the small intestine. Weight-loss surgery is a major operation, and like all surgeries carries a risk of complications, during and after the procedure. Anyone considering it should have a candid conversation with a doctor about what to expect and how to minimize risks. Barring  any complications, nearly all patients lose a lot of weight  — about three-fourths of their extra pounds within a year. A study published Monday  in The Archives of Surgery found that poor weight loss after surgery resulted from having diabetes or a larger size stomach pouch created surgically. Advertisement For those who do lose most of their excess weight,  overall health improves and the chance of dying prematurely falls significantly. Blood lipids and blood pressure drop, reducing by half the risk of heart disease. Type 2 diabetes and obstructive sleep apnea may disappear. Even the risk of some cancers is reduced. Regaining Weight  But not everyone who undergoes this surgery shares Ms. Sloan’s dedication to weight maintenance, and years later they start to regain   the weight they lost. A nationwide survey by Harris Interactive released in June queried 409 bariatric surgery patients and found that those who followed post-surgical guidelines most closely lost more weight initially and kept more of the weight off in the next five years.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “Surgery is not an instant cure for morbid obesity,” Dr. Philip Schauer, bariatric surgeon at the Cleveland Clinic and past president of the bariatric society, said in an interview.  “Up to 15 percent lose a lot of weight initially, then gain weight back. The difference between a great result and a good result is aftercare. “Patients do best,” he continued, “when they participate in a program that provides continuing education, psychological counseling, diet and nutrition support. Exercise matters absolutely. One of the best predictors of success is the degree to which the individual has a regular exercise program. Patients who comply with post-surgical recommendations are the ones who maintain a 120-pound weight loss at the five-year mark.” Ann Ellis, also from  Brooklyn, said that after  her gastric bypass in August 2002, she lost 125 of the 250 pounds she was carrying on her 5-foot frame, but her weight now hovers around 160. “The first few years were a real high, with everyone congratulating me on the weight loss,” she recalled. “Then after about three years, the euphoria wanes and some of the old bad habits start to kick in. I’ve always been an emotional eater. But I don’t want to go back to where I was, so I’m now working hard not to eat improperly and I’m weighing myself every day.” Mrs. Ellis does not see a nutritionist. Nor does she exercise, though she can now move a lot faster than she could before the surgery, and she can walk any distance she needs to. Psychological Factors The controlling feature of bariatric surgery, which encompasses all the types of weight-loss surgery, is similar to that of the drug Antabuse for treating alcoholism: If you eat too much, you throw up. And in  gastric bypass surgery, sugary foods usually cause diarrhea. But an operation  does not cure underlying psychological factors that prompt many obese people to overeat or eat the most fattening foods. Advertisement Sharon Clapp of St. Paul lost half of her body weight, 150 pounds,  after bariatric surgery in 1999. But during an emotionally challenging period when she suffered from depression, she said, “I ate nothing but sugar and fat and gained back about 25 pounds.” A psychologist helped her through the emotional problems. She then returned to eating “the right kinds of foods,” as she put it, and has lost 15 of those pounds, with plans to see a nutritionist and shed the remaining 10. “I know how to do it,“ she said. “It’s easy for me. Food is not such a big player in my life anymore. I don’t have the appetite and longing for it. But I think if you don’t know why you’re eating, you shouldn’t do the surgery.” A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F7 of the New York edition with the headline: Weight-Loss Surgery Requires Discipline.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »