Advertisement By KENNETH CHANGFEB. 29, 2008
 Here is a swatch of Maya blue: ■ The vibrant sky color can be seen on pottery, murals and other artifacts produced by the Maya people of Central America centuries ago, and the unusual, durable pigment remains vibrant today long after other colors have faded away. It was also the color of Chaak, the rain god, and of human sacrifice. When the skies looked too much like Maya blue — cloudless and dry — the Maya sometimes selected an unlucky victim to be painted this color and sacrificed to Chaak in hopes that the rains would follow. An account by a 16th-century Spanish priest described rituals where victims were stripped, painted and thrown onto a stone altar where their hearts, still beating, were cut out. “We knew blue was a very important color,” said Dean E. Arnold, a professor of anthropology at Wheaton College in Illinois. “It was very, very important for the priests and very important for ritual.” Advertisement The composition of Maya blue, first used around A.D. 300 and which is almost impervious to age, acid, weather and even modern solvents, remained a mystery until the 1960s, when chemists deciphered its components: the dye indigo and a clay mineral known as palygorskite, which can be melded together by heat to produce the pigment. Advertisement What remained unknown was where and when the Maya made Maya blue. Was there a paint factory churning it out by the gallon? Or was it a secret recipe held tightly by the priests? Was it made at the mines where the palygorskite was dug out, or was the palygorskite transported to the cities? An answer comes from a bowl that has been sitting in the Field Museum in Chicago for decades, Dr. Arnold and colleagues from the Field Museum and Northwestern University report in the journal Antiquity. The bowl had been dredged up, among other artifacts and 127 skeletons, by an explorer named Edward Thompson early in the 20th century from a natural well at Chichen Itza, a major Maya city near the northern tip of Mexico’s Yucatan peninsula, about 120 miles west of Cancun. Thompson shipped the artifacts to Harvard’s Peabody Museum, which later gave some of them to the Field Museum. Intriguingly, Thompson described a 14-foot-layer of blue sediment at the bottom of the well, called the Sacred Cenote. (A cenote, pronounced seh-NO-tay, is a sinkhole that fills up with groundwater.) The three-legged bowl, dating from about 1400, contained a chunk of incense that was burned in Maya rituals. Within the incense were bits of white and blue. Molecular-scale images taken by a scanning, tunneling microscope showed these to be palygroskite and indigo.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Thus, the researchers concluded, blue was made as part of the ritual, the ingredients heated by the burning of incense. The pigment was then applied to pots and sacrifices before being thrown into the well. Because the paint did not have time to set, the researchers surmise that the paint that washed off tinted the sediment layer. Jeremy A. Sabloff, a professor of anthropology at the University of Pennsylvania, who was not involved with the research, said the new findings are a good example of using cutting-edge technologies to re-examine old museum pieces. “Just technically, it gives us a better understanding how Maya blue was produced,” Dr. Sabloff said. “Beyond that, it gives us a better, clearer understanding of the role of Maya blue in ancient Maya ritual. It clearly played a much larger role than most scholars had appreciated until now.” Advertisement But human sacrifice was not always part of the ritual, said Gary M. Feinman, Field’s curator of anthropology and an author of the Antiquity paper. Although Thompson did find 127 skeletons, the Sacred Cenote at Chichen Itza was used as a ritual site for centuries. More often, pottery painted blue was thrown in, not people, Dr. Feinman said. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »