Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
 HENRY FOUNTAIN
 
NOV. 21, 2008
 It’s not every day that a scientist studying one animal species comes across another, previously unknown, one. But that’s what happened to Sanne Boessenkool of the University of Otago in New Zealand. What makes the discovery even more unusual is the status of the new species: it’s extinct. Ms.  Boessenkool and her colleagues were studying an endangered New Zealand bird, the yellow-eyed penguin (Megadyptes antipodes), trying to determine if it was naturally rare or had been more abundant in the past. They looked at living birds and museum specimens dating back hundreds of years, including many from a part of New Zealand’s South Island where yellow-eyed penguins are no longer found. But genetic analysis, as well as morphological evidence from bones, pointed to a startling finding: the oldest specimens, from before the arrival of Europeans in the 17th century, were different from more recent birds. So different, the researchers report in The Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences, that these oldest specimens actually represent a new species, which they named Megadyptes waitaha. Ms. Boessenkool said she was shocked by the genetic data. “I was looking at these sequences and saying, ‘Why do I have these weird patterns here?’ ” she said. “We never expected to find another species.” She  said it was likely that before the first humans arrived in the 13th century, M. waitaha was able to outcompete the yellow-eyed penguins, relegating them to smaller islands to the south. But then Polynesians arrived and within 200 years had wiped out many big animals including,  presumably, M. waitaha. Their competitors gone, Ms. Boessenkool said, yellow-eyed penguins were able to take over. “It’s great to see that a species like that has been able to expand,” she said, “but it still is a very vulnerable population.” A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Studying Rare Penguin, Scientist Finds New, But Extinct, Species.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »