Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. easy Creamy Macaroni and Cheese By Julia Moskin 1 hour 40 minutes  Apple and Swiss Chard Pie By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus resting easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking  Greens and Chayote Enchiladas With Salsa Verde By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours  Braised Halibut With Asparagus, Baby Potatoes and Saffron By Martha Rose Shulman 35 minutes healthy Pesto-Stuffed Portobello Burgers By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus marinating easy Creamy Lemon Pasta By Barbara Kafka 30 minutes  Creamy Pasta With Smoked Salmon, Arugula and Lemon By Amanda Hesser 15 minutes easy Creamy Pasta With Smoked Bacon and Peas By Alex Witchel About 15 minutes easy Creamy Pasta With Roasted Zucchini, Almonds and Basil By Melissa Clark 45 minutes healthy Creamy Meyer Lemon Dressing By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes easy Creamy Macaroni and Cheese By Julia Moskin 1 hour 40 minutes  Apple and Swiss Chard Pie By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus resting easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking  Greens and Chayote Enchiladas With Salsa Verde By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours  Braised Halibut With Asparagus, Baby Potatoes and Saffron By Martha Rose Shulman 35 minutes healthy Pesto-Stuffed Portobello Burgers By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus marinating easy Creamy Lemon Pasta By Barbara Kafka 30 minutes  Creamy Pasta With Smoked Salmon, Arugula and Lemon By Amanda Hesser 15 minutes easy Creamy Pasta With Smoked Bacon and Peas By Alex Witchel About 15 minutes easy Creamy Pasta With Roasted Zucchini, Almonds and Basil By Melissa Clark 45 minutes healthy Creamy Meyer Lemon Dressing By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes easy Creamy Macaroni and Cheese By Julia Moskin 1 hour 40 minutes  Apple and Swiss Chard Pie By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus resting Forget boxed macaroni and cheese — what kids really like are noodles bathed in a creamy sauce. This is a fine alternative to the packaged stuff. Instead, make the sauce by blending cottage cheese with milk in a food processor. It’s not yellow, but it has that creamy, cheesy taste. Make sure to blend the sauce well so that it won’t be chalky. This is a good sauce for penne or fusilli (though other kinds of pasta will work). You can add vegetables, like broccoli, which really catches the sauce. 
Featured in: 
6 Food Mistakes Parents Make. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy
 By Trish Hall 25 minutes By Jennifer Steinhauer 1 hour 15 minutes By Elaine Louie 1 hour 30 minutes By Julia Moskin 2 hours, plus rising time By Elaine Louie 30 minutes By Melissa Clark 45 minutes By Tejal Rao 1 1/2 hours By Samin Nosrat 20 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.