Advertisement By KENNETH CHANGMARCH 21, 2008
 Saturn’s moon Titan is encased in a thick, smoggy haze obscuring its surface, and planetary scientists speculated that the large moon, a little larger than the planet Mercury, might be awash in an ocean of hydrocarbons. But when NASA’s Cassini spacecraft arrived at Saturn in 2004 and sent the European Space Agency’s Huygens probe parachuting into Titan’s atmosphere, the pictures showed a landscape that looked as if it had been shaped by flowing liquids — but with channels that are now dry. While radar images on subsequent flybys by Cassini suggest lakes near Titan’s north pole, most of the surface still looks dry. But scientists may just not have been looking deep enough. Writing in Friday’s issue of the journal Science, a team of researchers led by Ralph D. Lorenz of the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory in Laurel, Md., report that Titan does indeed have a worldwide ocean — but hidden 50 miles or more below the surface. Each time it flew by Titan, Cassini’s radar mapped a long strip on Titan, or about 1 percent of the total surface area. In the strips mapped on flybys between October 2004 and May 2007, 19 regions were observed more than once. The scientists performed calculations based on Cassini’s trajectory, Titan’s orbit and Titan’s rotation rate of once every 15 days, 22 hours, 41 minutes and 24 seconds, and they found that the 19 regions were slightly offset on the subsequent flybys from what the calculations predicted. Advertisement The scientists found that they could match the positions if they tilted the rotation axis slightly and sped up the rotation by 0.36 degrees per year. They believe seasonal winds blowing through Titan’s thick atmosphere are giving an extra kick. In other seasons, the winds will slow Titan down again. Advertisement “In a way, it’s rocking back and forth,” Dr. Lorenz said. Titan’s overall rotation rate is locked in so that the same side always faces Saturn.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The phenomenon of winds speeding and slowing down the rotation rate also occurs on Earth to a smaller extent. But Titan’s winds are not strong enough to rock a completely solid Titan back and forth to the degree the Cassini has found. So the scientists deduce that an outer shell of ice 50 to 60 miles thick is rotating independently from the inner core. That in turn requires a liquid ocean to separate the shell from the core. Dr. Lorenz guessed that that ocean, a chilly mix of water and ammonia, might be about 200 kilometers, or about 120 miles, thick. “I think the paper is basically sound,” said David J. Stevenson, a professor of planetary science at the California Institute of Technology, who was not involved with the research. “They have data to support the idea that the outer shell of Titan is moving relative to the deeper part, and the cause of this movement is a stress exerted on the shell.” An under-ice ocean would not be unique in the solar system. Two of Jupiter’s moons, Europa and Callisto, and possibly a third, Ganymede, also have them. Titan’s ocean also seems unlikely to be home to any type of life. “It’s less relevant than Europa,” Dr. Stevenson said. On Europa, the bottom of the ocean is thought to be rock, possibly even rocks heated by volcanic activity. On Titan, the bottom of the ocean would be more ice. While Titan may not have life, what interests scientists is that it seems to be a frozen version of early Earth and may give clues about the conditions and ingredients that set the stage for life to arise on Earth. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »