Advertisement By DENNIS OVERBYEMARCH 25, 2008
 On the night last week after Arthur C. Clarke, the science fiction writer and space visionary, died at the ripe age of 90, it was cloudy and threatening rain in New York. I was frustrated because I wanted to go outside to see if the stars were still there. In his short story “The Nine Billion Names of God,” published in 1953, Clarke wrote of a pair of computer programmers sent to a remote monastery in Tibet to help the monks there use a computer to compile a list of all the names of God. Once the list was complete, the monks believed, human and cosmic destiny would be fulfilled and the world would end. The programmers are fleeing the mountain, hoping to escape the monks’ wrath when the program finishes and the world is still there, when one of them looks up. “Overhead, without any fuss, the stars were going out.” That was a typical Clarke ending, and it seemed only natural upon his death that nature might want to reciprocate. Advertisement Last week, lacking the chance of my own sign from heaven, I went home and dug out one of my most prized mementos, a letter  Clarke had written to me in 1991 about a book I had written, “Lonely Hearts of the Cosmos.” He liked the book, which featured sketches of astronomers he had known long ago in California, but hated the title, which he described as “cute” and “off-putting.” Advertisement No matter. For me, with the receipt of that letter, a circle had been closed. Now it has opened again, and I have lost a distant grandfather of sorts. To the world at large Arthur C. Clarke was probably best known as the co-creator with Stanley Kubrick of the classic 1968 movie “2001: A Space Odyssey,” a visual tone poem featuring a malevolent computer named Hal and a pair of astronauts in search of a mysterious monolith that seems to be the key to the origin and evolution of humanity. But Clarke* was much more than a science fiction writer. A genuine rocket scientist, he   predicted in 1945 in the journal Wireless World that satellites in geosynchronous orbits would be used as “extra-terrestrial relays” for broadcasting to the Earth below. The concept he had been pushing for the last few decades, of an elevator to space, might yet become a reality. As he said last fall on the 50th anniversary of Sputnik, people stopped laughing at it a long time ago. To space fans and perpetual adolescents everywhere he was simply the deceptively dry voice of cosmic wonder. Few writers have seemed to inhabit the cosmos, its grandeur, mystery and, yes, its ultimate coldness, with such aplomb,  from the balletic spaceships and the mysterious fetus of “2001” to the Jesuit astronaut in the mischievous short story “The Star.” The astronaut finds his faith sorely challenged when the expedition he is on discovers  the remains of a great civilization that was torched when its sun exploded in a supernova 2000 years ago. It was that catastrophe, of course, that blazed forth in Earth’s skies as the star of Bethlehem. Destiny was Clarke’s leitmotif, his own literary monolith. His earliest novel, “Against the Fall of Night,” later reprised as “The City and the Stars,” was about a city so traumatized by space and history that it had walled off the sky. In “Childhood’s End,”  aliens known as Overlords come to Earth to enforce peace and help prepare for the next stage of human evolution, and then are left behind, like disappointed bridesmaids, as the new race, drunk with new powers, blows up its old planet and swoops off into the cosmos to merge with the Overmind. I’ve lived in Clarke’s universe ever since I was in eighth grade and a classmate slipped me a paperback edition of Clarke’s “Reach for Tomorrow,” a collection of short stories. Until that point my biggest ambition was to play second base for the New York Yankees. Clarke yanked my sights quite a bit higher — a lot higher. In the triumphalism of postwar American middle-class life, it was a revelation to be reminded of the wonder of what I like to call cosmic ignorance. Advertisement I went from reading science fiction to reading books by George Gamow and pop-science explications of the debate then raging between the Big Bang and Steady State theories of the universe. The next thing I knew I was at M.I.T.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Now it’s my own job to explicate those and even more abstruse debates. And it’s a little embarrassing to admit now, as an alleged grown-up, an M.I.T. graduate, a father and a journalist, just how much of my metaphysical foundation comes from Clarke. I might sum it up as: the universe is a strange place, we are children here at best, ignorant of our origins, our future or even the right questions to ask. I haven’t lost my taste for cosmic mystery, for the curiosity about what might lie around the curve of the cosmos that Clarke first instilled in me. Clarke’s gravestone says that he never grew up, and you could say that I haven’t either. Like one of Peter Pan’s Lost Boys, or the Who, I hope I never do. Like one of the old horror masters, Clarke knew that imagination and suggestion always trumped explanation. In “The Sentinel,” one of the most haunting science fiction stories ever written, and  the seed from which “2001” later sprang, a pair of astronauts mountain-climbing on the Moon come across a pyramidal structure. Trying to open it, they realize they have set off a cosmic alarm. Somebody, somewhere, now knows we are here. “I can never look now at the Milky Way without wondering from which of those banked clouds of stars the emissaries are coming,” Clarke’s narrator says at the end. “If you will pardon so commonplace a simile, we have set off the fire-alarm and have nothing to do but to wait. I do not think we will have to wait for long.” When Clarke died, one of his few disappointments was that we had not yet heard from any extraterrestrial intelligence, although anybody within 50 light-years sufficiently advanced could easily tell we are here. As it turned out, though, there was something to be seen in the sky that night. In the kind of coincidence that would have delighted Clarke and set his fictive powers going, a new star appeared briefly on Wednesday morning, visible to the naked eye, in the constellation Boötes. It was the remains of a cataclysmic explosion, a gamma-ray burst, that must have torched a galaxy seven billion light-years away, around the curve of the cosmos, as Clarke might have put it. Nobody knows if there could have been somebody or something living there, when the universe was half its present age. When I heard about it I couldn’t help thinking about Clarke’s Jesuit and the star of Bethlehem. Whoever or whatever was there now belongs to the ages. Darkness has now reclaimed that spot in the sky. *By the normal conventions of this paper, by the way, I should be calling him Mr. Clarke or Sir Arthur, on second reference. But there has always been an exception for people who “belong to the ages,” and Arthur C. Clarke has always belonged to the ages. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F1 of the New York edition with the headline: A Boy’s Life, Guided by the Voice of Cosmic Wonder.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »