Advertisement By WARREN E. LEARYMARCH 26, 2008
 CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. — The space shuttle Endeavour returned safely to earth on Wednesday evening, completing a record-breaking 16-day mission to the International Space Station. The shuttle landed at 8:39 p.m., roughly an hour after the shuttle’s commander, Capt. Dominic L. Gorie, fired twin braking rockets that brought the spacecraft out of orbit. Mission managers canceled the day’s first landing opportunity, which would have brought the Endeavour to the runway at 7:05 p.m.; clouds threatened to obscure the site. After consulting with weather officers and Captain Gorie, however, the managers determined that conditions were improving by the time the second opportunity of the day came around and ordered Captain Gorie to bring the shuttle out of orbit and bring it and its crew of seven astronauts down to the 15,000-foot landing strip at the Kennedy Space Center. “Good news,” Lt. Col. James P. Dutton of the Air Force, an astronaut in Mission Control, told the Endeavour’s crew shortly after 7 p.m. “You are ‘go’ for the de-orbit burn,” he said, referring to the rocket firing that brakes the shuttle out of orbit. Advertisement Captain Gorie had said the end of the long mission was bittersweet, but the crew and the shuttle were ready to return home. “The orbiter’s really been performing really marvelously this whole flight,” he said late Tuesday. “We don’t have any concerns at all about it.” The crew includes Col. Gregory H. Johnson of the Air Force, the mission pilot; Richard M. Linnehan, a veterinarian; Capt. Michael J. Foreman of the Navy; Maj. Robert L. Behnken of the Air Force; and Takao Doi, a Japanese Space Agency astronaut. Advertisement The Endeavour also took up the astronaut Garrett E. Reisman, who stayed aboard the station for long-term duty, and returned with Gen. Léopold Eyharts of the French Air Force, a European Space agency astronaut who has lived aboard the station since last month to activate a new European science laboratory. The shuttle’s mission was the longest flight to the station since construction of the multinational outpost began, and NASA officials said it accomplished all of its objectives.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “In my view, it’s been extraordinary in every way that I can think of,” said LeRoy Cain, chairman of the Endeavour’s mission management team. “It’s just been a textbook mission up and down the line.” The shuttle delivered the first section of Japan’s large Kibo laboratory, an 18,500-pound storage compartment. The main laboratory, a unit the size of bus, is scheduled to arrive in May aboard the shuttle Discovery. The Endeavour also ferried up a 12-foot, 3,400-pound Canadian Space Agency robot called Dextre, which is to perform maintenance outside the station and help spacewalking astronauts. During 12 days at the station, the shuttle astronauts performed five spacewalks, a number previously seen only during Hubble Space Telescope servicing missions. Three of the excursions were needed to assemble Dextre and the others to deploy experiments, examine a malfunctioning rotary joint on a truss holding solar power panels, and stow a long shuttle-inspection boom that the Discovery will retrieve and use on the next shuttle mission. John Schwartz contributed reporting from New York.  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »