Advertisement By RONI CARYN RABINFEB. 18, 2009
 Flu Infections Kill Two Children A 12-year-old boy in Boston died of flu over the weekend, The Boston Globe reports, and a 10-year-old Long Island boy who died over the weekend may also have been a victim of flu. The boys death in Levittown, Long Island, is the first childhood flu fatality in the five years since public health agencies have been reporting pediatric flu deaths, Newsday says. Study: MRSA Infections Acquired in Illinois Communities, Not Hospitals Drug-resistant staph infections are more common among patients in Illinois hospitals than had been believed, but the vast majority of the patients with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, or MRSA, were already infected before they were admitted to the hospital, The Chicago Tribune says. Data from the Illinois Hospital Association indicate that the drug-resistant bacteria are now widespread in communities. Suit Claims D.C. Water Authority Hid Lead Contamination A Capitol Hill father is suing the District of Columbia Water and Sewer Authority for $200 million, charging lead-contaminated tap water made his twin sons ill when they were infants and caused serious long-term health problems, The Associated Press reports. The water utility hid elevated levels of lead from customers and federal authorities between 2001 and 2004, plaintiff John Parkhurst claims. Insurer Settles With N.Y. Over Faulty Reimbursement Standards Cigna has reached an agreement with New York attorney general Andrew Cuomo to pay $10 million to settle charges the insurer underpaid doctors by basing payments on flawed data from UnitedHealth's Ingenix database, The Wall Street Journal says. Mr. Cuomo has also notified Excellus BlueCross BlueShield of his intent to sue over its manipulation of reimbursement rates for out-of-network services. Last month UnitedHealth agreed to pay $50 million to create an independent database to replace Ingenix. Group Claims F.D.A. Neglected Testing Standards for Medical Devices A watchdog group charges the Food and Drug Administration put patients' lives at risk when it stopped enforcing 30-year-old requirements that medical device makers meet federal lab standards before testing their products on humans, McClatchy Newspapers reports. The report by the non-profit Project on Government Oversight will be released later today. The rules cover studies on defibrillators, pacemakers, heart valves and coronary stents. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »