Advertisement By NICHOLAS BAKALARFEB. 20, 2009
 F.D.A.: Fatalities May Be Linked to Psoriasis Drug The Food and Drug Administration is investigating a possible link between the psoriasis drug efalizumab, sold under the brand name Raptiva, and three, or possibly four, deaths from a rare degenerative condition of the brain, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, reports the Los Angeles Times health blog. The illness is characterized by mental deterioration, vision loss and other neurological symptoms, and most often affects people with impaired immune systems. Four Children Die of Flu in Colorado Four Colorado children, three toddlers and a baby, have died from the flu since mid-January, The Denver Post reports. One of the children had not been vaccinated against the flu. Two of the others may have had only one shot, while two are recommended in the first year of immunization. The vaccination status of the fourth child is unknown. Report: Most Food Poisonings Never Investigated There are more than 250 types of food-related illness, The Associated Press says, and your chances of getting one this year are about one in four. Most cases are suffered in anonymity, not in conjunction with well publicized incidents like the recent salmonella outbreak caused by tainted peanuts. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the most common causes are Norwalk-like viruses, campylobacter and salmonella. U.S. Joins Suit Against Johnson and Johnson The U.S. Department of Justice has joined two lawsuits against Johnson & Johnson to recover Medicare money spent on Natrecor, a heart drug, Dow Jones Newswires reports. Natrecor is approved only for intravenous use in people with severe congestive heart failure, but the company is accused of illegally promoting it for use by patients with milder heart problems. The whistleblower cases were filed in California by former sales managers for Scios, Inc., a unit of Johnson & Johnson. Statin May Protect Patients With Low Cholesterol, Researchers Say Research presented on Thursday at the American Stroke Association meeting in San Diego suggest that daily treatment with the statin Crestor benefits even people with low levels of cholesterol. Bloomberg News reports that AstraZeneca, the drug's manufacturer, plans to file a request with the Food and Drug Administration for expanded approval of the medicine. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »