Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Peanut Dukkah By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes Trending Chocolate Cupcakes for Almost Everybody By Pete Wells 40 minutes Trending Giant Crinkled Chocolate Chip Cookies By Julia Moskin 30 minutes, plus chilling Trending Fettuccine With Asparagus And Smoked Salmon By Florence Fabricant 35 minutes Trending Salmon With Yogurt-Curry Sauce By Mark Bittman 20 minutes Trending The Greenest Green Salad By Samin Nosrat 20 minutes Trending Cauliflower Parmesan By Melissa Clark 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Parsley Hummus By Martha Rose Shulman About 20 minutes healthy Green Tomato Salsa Verde By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Chermoula By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Guacamole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Carrot Purée By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Peanut Dukkah By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes Trending Chocolate Cupcakes for Almost Everybody By Pete Wells 40 minutes Trending Giant Crinkled Chocolate Chip Cookies By Julia Moskin 30 minutes, plus chilling Trending Fettuccine With Asparagus And Smoked Salmon By Florence Fabricant 35 minutes Trending Salmon With Yogurt-Curry Sauce By Mark Bittman 20 minutes Trending The Greenest Green Salad By Samin Nosrat 20 minutes Trending Cauliflower Parmesan By Melissa Clark 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Parsley Hummus By Martha Rose Shulman About 20 minutes healthy Green Tomato Salsa Verde By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Chermoula By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Guacamole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Carrot Purée By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Peanut Dukkah By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes Trending Chocolate Cupcakes for Almost Everybody By Pete Wells 40 minutes This classic Mexican pumpkin seed sauce, also known as green mole, is tangy, herbal and spicy all at the same time. Serve it with poached or pan-cooked chicken breasts, fish (it’s very pretty with salmon), or shrimp. You can bathe grilled vegetables with it, or serve it with white beans and steamed or poached vegetables. Hulled untoasted pumpkin seeds are available in many whole foods stores and Mexican markets. 
Featured in: 
Add Nuts To Your Diet With Sauces, Not Snacks. 
   
Healthy,
                    Dairy Free,
                    Gluten Free,
                    Kosher,
                    Low Sugar,
                    Mexican,
                    Pepita,
                    Pumpkin Seed,
                    Tomatillo
 By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus several hours of chilling By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour, plus 4 hours' marinating By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus at least 5 hours' chilling By Pierre Franey 20 minutes By Melissa Clark 30 minutes By Melissa Clark 1 hour 15 minutes By Julia Moskin 30 to 40 minutes, plus marinating Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.