Advertisement By RONI CARYN RABINJAN. 22, 2009
 Attention, neurotic Woody Allen types: you really ought to get out more. That’s the latest news from researchers exploring whether people with certain personality traits are more likely than others to develop dementia. Past studies consistently have shown that worriers -who get stressed easily and are prone to anxiety and depression - are more likely to develop dementia later in life. Now a new report from Sweden suggests that neurotics can shape their destiny to some extent, because lifestyle also plays a role. The study appeared on Tuesday in the journal Neurology. Scientists at the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm followed a group of 506 people ages 78 and older who had no dementia at the beginning of the study. The subjects completed a personality questionnaire and were interviewed about their lifestyles, and then were monitored for several years, with medical exams at three years and again at six years. After six years, 144 adults in the group had developed dementia. The researchers analyzed the accumulated data for possible associations between cognitive function, neuroticism and other characteristics, as well as lifestyle factors. Advertisement Very neurotic people were more likely to have developed dementia over time than were people who were calmer, more relaxed and self-satisfied, but only if they were also socially isolated and inactive, the researchers discovered. The subjects with all these risks were three times more likely to have suffered dementia compared to participants who were not neurotic but just as isolated and inactive, the study found. Advertisement When the elderly participants were physically and mentally active and had rich social networks, it didn’t much matter whether they were neurotic or not, the scientists also found. In this group, neuroticism was associated with only a slightly increased risk of dementia. “This is indicating that an active lifestyle can buffer the effects of high neuroticism,” said Dr. Hui-Xin Wang, the lead author of the study, said. “That’s a good thing, since lifestyle is something one can change.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Among those who are active and have a rich social network, she said, “There are no significant differences between the different personalities. It doesn’t actually matter.” The associations between personality, lifestyle and dementia risk may be explained by psychological stress, Dr. Wang said, since stress hormones are associated with damage to the hippocampus, the part of the brain involved in forming new memories. Studies have demonstrated that when animals are placed under constant psychological stress, their brains undergo physical changes and they develop memory problems, said Robert Wilson, a professor of neuropsychology at Rush University Medical Center in Chicago who has also studied the link between neuroticism and dementia. Dr. Wilson said the new finding is not altogether surprising, since both neuroticism and an inactive lifestyle have been linked to an increased risk of dementia. He noted that personality traits play a very small overall role in predicting the risk of dementia. “The good news is that even if you have the bad personality traits, if your lifestyle is active and integrated, you’re probably okay,” he said. “The extra risk associated with these personality traits is only playing out in people whose lifestyle is already putting them at somewhat risk.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »