Advertisement By RONI CARYN RABINAPRIL 15, 2009
 U.S. Holds First National Bed Bug Summit The Environmental Protection Agency organized the first-ever National Bed Bug Summit yesterday, a three-day conference that drew health experts, housing officials and others together to discuss a resurgence in the critters that invade beds and hotel rooms, The Associated Press reports. Increasing international travel has helped spread bedbugs, and there are few effective pesticides approved for use in eradicating them, experts said. Organ and Face Donor Was Son of Holocaust Survivors The man whose face was donated to a victim of a disfiguring accident earlier this month was the son of Holocaust survivors, The Boston Globe reports. Joseph Helfgot was 60 when he died after heart transplant surgery, and his family agreed to donate his nose, the roof of his mouth, his upper lip, facial skin, muscles and nerves for use in the nation's second face transplant. Health Reform Advocates Organize the Uninsured If the country's uninsured organized politically, they would have more members than the AARP and clout to match, but they have never banded together to exert influence in Washington, D.C.,The Associated Press reports. Now a group called Health Care for America Now wants to organize the estimated 50 million Americans who lack health insurance into a potent lobbying force to march on Washington and to press Congress to guarantee coverage. Advocates for Medicinal Marijuana Square Off With Government Lawyers Government lawyers and advocates for the medicinal use of marijuana squared off before a federal appeals court panel on Tuesday, the Los Angeles Times reports. While a government lawyer argued the administration does not have to support its claim that marijuana has "no currently accepted medical use," advocates for the use of pot said it eases the pain and anxiety of chronic illness, and that the government should stop spreading "false information." The advocates represent Americans for Safe Access, which is suing the government under a law that bars it from disseminating inaccurate information. Deceased Minnesota Patient Was Infected With Polio From Live Virus Minnesota health officials say a patient with a weakened immune system who died in March was infected with polio from a live virus found in an oral vaccine no longer used in this country, the Star Tribune reports. It was the second such case in the state in four years, but health officials said there was no need for alarm. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »