Advertisement NOV. 2, 2009
 To the Editor: Re “Cancers Can Vanish Without Treatment, but How?” (Oct. 27): Our understanding of cancer is changing, and seeing it exclusively as a disease of DNA damage is probably simplistic. The new science of epigenetics shows that chemicals can switch genes on and off, and this may explain the “reversibility” of cancer. One explanation for the rise in cancer is that humans have been exposed to all sorts of chemicals that may interfere with the way cells divide. If we are to be successful in bringing down cancer rates, then we must reduce human exposure to such chemicals. Getting people to stop smoking has very successfully brought down the number of people getting lung cancer; we now need to consider doing the same for other harmful chemicals.    Jamie Page London The writer is chief executive of the Cancer Prevention and Education Society. To the Editor: Cases of the spontaneous regression of cancer, while certainly not highly frequent, have been frequent enough to have warranted two medical books and many published cases. Advertisement Many of these case reviews conclude with considered analyses of possible causes, including elevated fevers, the effects of another disease on the cancer and the aftereffects of surgery that at first appeared ineffective.    Claire Warga, Ph.D.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Brooklyn To the Editor: “Cancers Can Vanish Without Treatment, but How?” does not really answer the question why. Possibly the answers can be found in sources like “Diet, Life Expectancy and Chronic Disease: Studies of Seventh-Day Adventists and Other Vegetarians,” by Gary E. Fraser (Oxford, 2003). Some hospitals, like U.C.S.F. Medical Center here in San Francisco, provide cooking and nutrition classes for cancer patients, not only to help them recover from toxic treatments but also to reduce the risks of a relapse. Let’s hear more about those approaches. Advertisement Fiona McGregor San Francisco Science Times welcomes letters from readers. 
Those submitted for publication must include the writer’s name, address and telephone number. 
E-mail should be sent to scitimes@nytimes.com. 
Send letters to Science Editor, The New York Times, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018. A version of this letter appears in print on November 3, 2009, on Page D4 of the National edition with the headline: Tumors That Vanish.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »