Advertisement By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN, M.D.NOV. 3, 2014
 WASHINGTON —  Hundreds of government and civilian workers of all stripes, and thousands of military personnel, have braved the terrifying prospect of infection to respond to the Ebola emergency in West Africa. And thousands more will be needed for an effort that is expected to go well into 2015. But will they go? Beyond the obvious dangers to health care workers — more than 270, mostly African, have died so far this year — a host of obstacles stand in the way of anyone who may want to help stem a catastrophe. Foremost among them, perhaps, is that with no central agency in charge, volunteers often cannot be placed when and where they are most needed. The affected African countries have crippling weaknesses in their health systems. Doctors Without Borders, a nonprofit humanitarian group, led the initial response, but it is not big or powerful enough to do the entire job. The World Health Organization failed to heed the group’s cries for earlier help. The United States has lately taken the lead, but it, too, responded late. Advertisement The Ebola emergency contrasts sharply with previous disasters — hurricanes, cholera, tsunamis, earthquakes — in which experienced volunteers quickly joined relief efforts. Advertisement “Ebola is scary,” said Dr. Susan L. F. McLellan, an infectious disease specialist at Tulane University in New Orleans, who cared for patients in Sierra Leone for nearly three weeks in August and has battled previous outbreaks of other diseases in Africa and Haiti. But it is made scarier, she said, by an epidemic of misinformation that leads many to refuse to be part of teams that would care for a potential Ebola patient even in the United States. Misinformation has “put huge blockades in our ability to respond, and is part of why the United States is not recruiting that many volunteers,” Dr. McLellan said. Many change their minds after “talking to someone who provided hours of clinical care a day, had her skin exposed, sat with Sierra Leoneans, ate food they prepared, and not only lived to tell the tale but also saved some lives,” Dr. McLellan said. Politicians have added further difficulties by forcing workers returning from West Africa into isolation or quarantine. Volunteers who do not become ill until they return — as happened to Dr. Craig Spencer in New York City — face public criticism instead of praise for their altruism. And friends and fellow employees are shunning even the doctors, nurses and workers who are caring for him. Louisiana officials have told scientists returning from West Africa, including many experts on Ebola, not to attend a meeting of the American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene in New Orleans this week. To be sure, the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has sent more workers to the Ebola-stricken countries than for any other emergency in its 68-year history, and the Pentagon is sending at least 4,000 troops to provide hospital beds and organizational support. But other countries have refused to send health workers. When Australia offered to donate $2 million to Doctors Without Borders instead of committing experienced doctors and nurses, the group turned down the money, saying it needed the people more. Advertisement “Countries like Australia with the capacity to make a real difference on the ground,” it said, “are looking at each other to take responsibility and are refusing to send their own personnel to help.” Misinformation aside, Ebola poses a legitimate fear of the unknown. Many workers going to infected areas do not know how great a danger they face, said Dr. William H. Foege, an epidemiologist and former director of the C.D.C. A vast majority of volunteers have no experience with Ebola or other so-called hemorrhagic fevers like Marburg and Lassa, so they face a lethal disease they have never dealt with and for which there is no vaccine or proven therapy. The decision to volunteer to go to West Africa requires finding a proper balance among valor, emotions, personal sacrifice, scientific evidence and common sense. Beyond conquering the fear of becoming another Ebola victim, prospective volunteers must overcome a formidable list of hurdles, some of them rarely discussed. Dr. Peter Piot, dean of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, has assured full salary for staff who go to West Africa, and 250 individuals from his and other institutions have volunteered. But even though his school has solved insurance and safety issues, only eight have gone so far because of a lack of available positions, he said. He is hoping more can go later.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Recruiting organizations screen applicants because they want only qualified workers, not individuals simply seeking adventure, and need to devise orderly schedules to avoid having too many people with too little to do. Because each stint usually requires several months, potential volunteers must seek colleagues who are willing to work extra shifts in a hospital or clinic or teach their classes throughout their absence. Moreover, working in poor countries with rudimentary health facilities is vastly different from working in high-tech hospitals in rich countries. So most volunteers must go to a training site to take courses in how to work with Ebola. That takes time, and the travel can be costly. In the United States, many volunteers come from hospitals, medical schools and universities. But administrators of many of these institutions, worried about liability, are reluctant to let employees go to West Africa — in part because they are heeding the C.D.C.’s warnings against nonessential travel to Ebola areas. Critics say even well-meaning administrators have put up new hurdles that discourage volunteers. For example, academic and hospital officials want to know where their employees are going, why, and who will reimburse the employer for the lost time. Faculty and staff who go may not get paid. Advertisement Volunteers are urged to be sure their life insurance policies are paid up. Also, there can be uncertainties about whether their health insurance will pay for evacuation and medical care if they develop Ebola. Health workers who understand administrators’ concerns still contend that some are exercising undue caution for public-relations reasons to assure employees, students and parents that their institution is safe from Ebola. “We have not seen this kind of caution before,” said Dr. Michael H. Merson, the founding director of the Global Health Institute at Duke University. Many people ask why foreigners should respond to an epidemic far from home, even if imported cases may significantly threaten people in their own country. The tradition of doctors’ and nurses’ accepting personal risks in caring for patients seems to be a casualty in the growing commercialism of medicine and academia. In the mid-1960s, I served in the C.D.C.’s Epidemic Intelligence Service, which responds to outbreaks, but only if invited by domestic state and foreign governments. Back then, and in recent decades, I have heard many leaders advocate creation of a similar international group, a kind of SWAT team ready to respond immediately to an emergency anywhere. But the proposals have fallen on deaf ears — for lack of funds, disagreements over where such teams should be located, and because the potential need for new or amended laws to allow them to enter countries where they may not be welcome. The terror of Ebola may change that situation. A version of this article appears in print on November 4, 2014, on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: Fighting an Epidemic With Hands Tied.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »