Advertisement By NICHOLAS WADEMAY 13, 2009
 The molecules at the beginning of life were probably made of RNA, a close chemical cousin of DNA. RNA can both act as an enzyme, to control chemical reactions, and record biological information in the sequence of bases along its backbone. But how could the first RNA molecule have emerged from the organic chemicals thought to have been present on the primitive earth? Chemists can plausibly show how each of the three components of an RNA nucleotide – a base, a sugar, and a phosphate group – could have formed spontaneously. But the base cannot attach to the sugar, known as ribose, because the energy of the reaction is unfavorable. Researchers have been stuck at this roadblock for 20 years. Chemists at the University of Manchester, led by John D. Sutherland, have now provided a way around. Advertisement The diagram above shows, in blue, the reaction that doesn't work and, in green, the new work-around. Both reactions start off with simple chemicals believed to have been present on the primitive earth.  They are glyceraldehyde (10), cyanimide (8), cyanoacetaldehyde (5) and cyanoacetylene (7).  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. These chemicals will naturally form the base cytosine (3) and ribose (4). But the cytosine cannot be made to join to the ribose under natural conditions. Advertisement Working through all possible chemical combinations for 10 years, Dr. Sutherland's team discovered a different and quite unintuitive route.  Their reaction system, shown in green, combines the carbon-nitrogen chemistry that leads to the bases with the carbon-oxygen chemistry that makes the sugars. They make a half-sugar/half-base (11), add another half-sugar (12) and then a half-base to make an intermediate (13) that easily becomes ribo-cytidine phosphate. Ultra-violet light converts ribocytidine to the uracil-containing nucleotide. The Manchester team has not yet found how to mkae the other two nucleotides of which RNA is composed, but this should not be an insuperable problem. Once the four nucleotides have been formed, they would fairly easily zip together to make an RNA molecule.  If Dr. Sutherland's work is correct, it provides for the first time a plausible explanation of how an information-carrying biological molecule like RNA could have arisen on the primitive earth. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »