Advertisement By RONI CARYN RABINJAN. 9, 2009
 Federal Scientists Allege F.D.A. Mismanagement A group of federal scientists has written a letter to the transition team of the incoming Obama administration complaining of widespread managerial misconduct in a division of the Food and Drug Administration, the Associated Press reports. The letter says that the scientific review process for medical devices at the F.D.A. “has been corrupted and distorted by current F.D.A. managers, thereby placing the American people at risk.” It was written on letterhead for the agency’s Center for Devices and Radiological Health and signed by nine scientists. Vytorin: Not So Bad After All? The F.D.A. is telling patients not to stop taking Vytorin even though a finding last year suggested the expensive combination pill may be no better than a cheaper generic drug, the Wall Street Journal reports. The F.D.A. was convinced by data showing Vytorin, which includes Zetia and Zocor, lowered LDL, or bad cholesterol, more than Zocor alone did. Data from the same study found that Vytorin and Zocor were no different in reducing blockages of neck arteries. California Doctors Must Take Up Fee Disputes With Insurers The California Supreme Court has ruled that emergency room doctors who think a patient’s H.M.O. underpaid them can’t charge the patient for the difference and have to negotiate with the insurer, The San Francisco Chronicle reports. Consumers hailed the decision but critics said it will impact medical care and encourage physicians to end affiliations with emergency rooms. A New Frontier in Organ Retrieval A Long Island man who donated a kidney to his wife says he wants it back now that they’re getting divorced, The Daily News reports. The man, neurosurgeon Dr. Richard Batista, donated the kidney in 2001 after a previous transplant failed. Gaza Ambulances on Horrific Journeys Paramedics taking wounded Palestinians out of the Gaza Strip into Egypt say the trip is a harrowing one through destroyed cities while dodging stray bombs and gunfire, USA Today reports. Since hospitals in the Gaza Strip are overflowing with patients, Red Crescent ambulances are taking the wounded from the conflict with Israel into Egypt. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »