Advertisement By PAULINE W. CHEN, M.D.APRIL 7, 2009
 The view through scopes — colonoscopes, arthroscopes and laparoscopes, to name a few — routinely aids physicians in narrowing diagnoses and arriving at a plan of care. But none is as illuminating as the one doctors refer to as the “retrospectoscope,” the scope of hindsight. The retrospectoscope brings startling clarity to the most mysterious disease processes: difficult decisions become brilliant choices, minor missteps turn into devastating errors, and the best of intentions can transform into deep regret and persistent what-if’s. Tonight and next Tuesday, PBS shines the retrospectoscope on doctors as “Nova” airs “Doctors’ Diaries,” the most recent installment of a 22-year chronicle about seven former Harvard medical school students. Producer Michael S. Barnes began following the students in 1987. He chose them in part because they represented different aspects of the entering class, and because they appeared to Mr. Barnes to be “good characters.” Ultimately he filmed over 700 hours of classes, clinical encounters, interviews and personal moments outside of school. While the first installment, titled “M.D. — The Making of a Doctor,” ran soon after the students’ graduation in 1991, subsequent installments included footage from their years of residency training and early practice. This latest update catches up with them more than two decades after they began medical school, now middle aged and mid-career. Much of this two-part installment reviews highlights from their early years. We witness the shock of dissecting a human body, the awkward experience of learning how to do a pelvic exam, the mind-numbing exhaustion of internship. Advertisement When first aired in the early 1990s, these clips were raw and thought-provoking; but there is now something vaguely nostalgic about watching medical students and residents from that time. Animal print tops and bulging shoulder pads on the women date the film footage, but so do the discussions about specialty choices, which have since become skewed toward fields like dermatology and anesthesia, and residency work hours, which no longer routinely surpass 110 hours per week. Advertisement Nonetheless, the difficulty and profound awkwardness of becoming a doctor, of reconciling youthful ideals about compassionate care with unforgiving clinical demands, remains as poignant as ever. In one segment, a student breaks down in tears as she witnesses her patient die on the operating room table. The head surgeon listens intently, acknowledging her grief, then gently reminds her that as doctors they still must go to help the family understand what has happened. “I know that,” she says, obviously struggling. “But it’s so hard to watch.” The series, too, becomes harder to watch as it hurtles toward the present and begins focusing less on medicine and more on life itself. While a clearer timeline might have been helpful  —  some clips have subtext that gives the viewer a sense of time and place; others don’t  —  there’s no missing the fact that medicine has influenced all seven doctors in ways that none of them might have imagined 22 years earlier. Two of the doctors who displayed great maturity and precocious bedside skills as medical students make the decision to no longer see patients. Four of the doctors become separated or divorced from the spouses they met or married in medical school or training. One of the doctors, now a psychiatrist, discusses the process of undergoing intensive psychoanalysis himself. “There’s a painful moment of realization when you understand that you are still going to be yourself when you come out of it," he says, summarizing what viewers are seeing on screen. "I, like many people, had a fantasy that I was going to be a new person, a different person. Life remains a challenge.” Theirs has become a journey of not only professional actualization but also painful self-realization. These last views offered by the retrospectoscope are tinged with sadness, the kind of regret that inevitably comes with nearly 20/20 hindsight. Each doctor goes on to address the question: Would you do it over again? And it’s uncomfortable watching these once voluble or spontaneous young students now pause and offer the measured responses of middle age.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But what leaves the viewer, and any future doctor who might watch the series, with hope is the surprising lack of regret each expresses regarding his or her choice to become a doctor. Their work today reflects a broad range of deeply committed and patient-centered work — caring for the underserved; doing clinical and basic science research that will ultimately affect patients’ lives; traveling to Third World countries to offer care; running a nonprofit that helps to fund community service projects here and abroad. It is work that transcends the challenges of their personal lives and far surpasses the quality of what they might have ever offered patients earlier on in their careers. The doctor who wept in the operating room, for example, talks about her young daughter who has said she wants to follow her mother’s footsteps: “I have mixed feelings about it, knowing how hard it was for me and how strenuous it is, and how much you sacrifice.” But then, for a moment, that familiar look of wonder returns to her eyes, and the viewer clearly sees a glimmer of the young student she once was. “On the other hand,” she says, smiling, “it’s just an incredible gift being a physician.” Despite the arduous journey exposed by this particular retrospectoscope, you cannot help but feel at the end that these former students have become precisely the kind of doctor you might want. And the kind of doctors that they set out to be. Join the discussion on the Well blog, “Turning the Camera on Doctors’ Lives.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »