Advertisement 
Books  By                     
JONATHAN WEINER

NOV. 10, 2014
 Edward O. Wilson is a great biologist, a great conservationist and a great optimist. He thinks we should set aside half the planet as wilderness, and he believes we can do it. In this new book, he tells the story of a nature preserve in Mozambique to make his case. “A Window on Eternity” is a short coffee-table book, with lots of wildlife photographs and lots of white space on the page. But it is more than a casual addition to his shelf of almost 30 books, two of which have won Pulitzer Prizes. Dr. Wilson’s visits to Gorongosa National Park and its summit, Mount Gorongosa, have been capstone experiences for him. It is not too much to say that he fell in love with the mountain at the age of 81. Gorongosa was probably one of the first peaks our species ever saw. It stands at the southern end of the Great Rift Valley in the middle of a rain forest. Stone Age tools have been found on its slopes. For much of the 20th century it was a popular tourist destination, attracting big-game hunters and big-time movie stars. Then came disaster. Gorongosa means “place of danger,” and from 1976 to 1992 its wildlife was decimated by Mozambique’s civil war. Soldiers slaughtered the elephants for ivory, and the lions for sport. They butchered the Cape buffaloes, hippopotamuses, warthogs and antelopes. By the time the fighting ended, most of the big animals left were crocodiles. Advertisement That was almost the end of Gorongosa National Park. But in 2004 the American philanthropist Gregory C. Carr, who had made hundreds of millions of dollars in computer voice mail services, decided to dedicate his life and fortune to Gorongosa. Together with the government of Mozambique and a growing number of local friends, colleagues and allies, he began an effort to bring back the lions, the elephants and the rest. Dr. Wilson made his first trip to Gorongosa in 2011, flying by helicopter into the rain forest with Mr. Carr. Although the biologist had done field expeditions all over the world, this was his first time in southern Africa. From the helicopter window, he saw herds of elephants and hippos that Mr. Carr and his friends had restored to the plains of Gorongosa. (This love-at-first-sight moment was captured in a touching documentary called “The Guide,” by the Academy Award-winning filmmaker Jessica Yu ; a DVD is bound into this book.) Advertisement “Do you know what it looks like to me?” Dr. Wilson asks Mr. Carr in the helicopter. “It looks like paradise.” Coming from a tourist, the word might have been a banality; from E. O. Wilson, it means almost as much as it does in the Bible. This is a vision of the great dream made real. On the ground, of course, Gorongosa isn’t Eden. Mr. Carr and company have worked near-miracles, and the ecological fundamentals of the place are quite solid, Dr. Wilson writes, with “scat on the ground, bloodsuckers on the wing, and all the rest of the foundation of everything so enduring and magnificent.” Nevertheless, wherever he goes in the park, he sees damage from the war, including the bullet-pocked wall of an old park restaurant.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. A few elephants are old enough to remember the fighting: They are skittish around people. A few years ago, a matriarch suddenly charged a team of elephant experts who were riding through the forest with an armed guard. She rammed their vehicle into a tree. Fortunately, no one was hurt. Dr. Wilson says one reason she attacked may have been the smell of the gun. From his first visit, he threw himself and his fame into the cause of the park. With cameras rolling, in an act of outreach both global and local, he led children from the mountain on a “bioblitz,” an intensive survey of all of the life in a chosen plot of ground. Within two hours, they found damselflies, lacewings, grasshoppers, praying mantises, crabs, shrimp, snakes, lizards and many more specimens, which they bagged and brought to Dr. Wilson to identify by their scientific names. In this book, Gorongosa is a microcosm of the planet. As many as 7,000 subsistence farmers and woodcutters live on the mountain’s lower slopes, and they are among the world’s poorest people. In the short time since the civil war ended, they have cut down more than half the rain forest. If in their desperation they proceed to clear-cut the rest of their sacred mountain, they will lose everything they have: their livelihoods, their wildlife, their soil, even their rain. If they help to save it, their children will inherit a global treasure. In much the same way, within our own lifetimes, we have lurched into a new geological age, the Anthropocene, dominated by human beings. To save anything less than half of our planet’s wilderness, Dr. Wilson argues, “will turn the Anthropocene into the Eremocene, the Age of Loneliness.” In the book’s epigraph, he recalls the words of Moses at the end of his life, when he stood on Mount Nebo and was granted a glimpse of the Promised Land. “I have set before you life and death, blessing and cursing: therefore choose life, that both thou and thy seed may live.” Jonathan Weiner’s book “The Beak of the Finch” won a Pulitzer Prize and has just been reissued in a 20th-anniversary edition. A version of this review appears in print on November 11, 2014, on Page D6 of the New York edition with the headline: Transported to Paradise, but Needing More.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »