Advertisement By RONI CARYN RABINMARCH 19, 2009
 Food Maker Calls for Increased Federal Regulation Even the giant cereal maker Kellogg is calling for more government regulation of food safety, The Associated Press reports. Kellogg lost $70 million recently when it had to recall millions of peanut butter products, and chief executive David Mackay will call for annual federal inspections of food processing plants when he testifies before a House subcommittee today. AIDS Organizations Condemn Pope's Remarks AIDS activists are blasting the pope's remarks denouncing condom use in the fight against AIDS, Agence France-Presse reports. Pope Benedict XVI made the remarks en route to Africa, prompting officials in France and Belgium to express concern. The head of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria demanded that the pope retract the statement. Infectious Diseases a Growing Threat, WHO Says A World Health Organization report says infectious diseases are killing more people worldwide because of massive urbanization and failure to control mosquito populations in the tropics, Reuters reports. Air travel also has helped spread infectious diseases like dengue, which killed more than 3,000 people in Southeast Asia last year. The WHO report says communicable diseases like malaria and H.I.V./AIDS are responsible for more than half the deaths worldwide. State Lawmakers Attempt to Keep Teens From Tanning Booths Texas wants to make it harder for teenagers to use tanning booths, The Associated Press reports. Proposed state legislation would require anyone under 18 to get a doctor's note before using a tanning bed and would require parents to accompany minors. Meanwhile, state lawmakers in Florida are considering a bill that would bar teens under 16 from using tanning beds altogether. Some experts say the ultraviolet light may increase the risk of skin cancer, and young people may be more vulnerable. Restrictions on Medical Equipment Proposed for Medicare Medicare patients could face new restrictions on where they go to buy or rent medical equipment. A cost-cutting reform would require the government to use only approved suppliers who are selected through competitive bidding, The Wall Street Journal reports. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »