Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

DEC. 28, 2009
 I’m a firm believer in eating foods that symbolize good luck and expanding fortune at the beginning of the year. Usually I stick with my black-eyed peas salad. But I’ve always been curious about how people in other countries usher in the New Year. Lentils and raisins are present on Italian tables because they resemble coins and swell when cooked. They’re usually accompanied by pork, a symbol of prosperity and abundance. In other parts of the world, different beans stand in for lentils — chickpeas in Provence, black-eyed peas in the American South — also because they’re small and round like coins, and expand when they cook. Greens — spinach, collards, kale and cabbage — symbolize money (think greenbacks) and growth. Other foods that represent good fortune in the coming year include rice, golden foods like cornbread and saffron, and baked goods shaped like rings (often a coin is hidden inside). Often sweets are eaten so that the year will be, yes, sweet. In Spain, Portugal and parts of Latin America, revelers dine on 12 sweet grapes, symbolizing the 12 months of the year, at midnight on December 31st. The Japanese believe in soba noodles, whose long, lean shape symbolizes health and longevity. Advertisement Fish symbolizes good luck in many cultures. Indeed, it strikes me that with the exception of some rich pastries, most of the good luck foods are also very good for you. Good luck does begin, after all, with good health. Advertisement Lentil Tomato Soup This is an easy, robust vegetarian soup that tastes almost meaty. The rosemary in the bouquet garni contributes a savory, earthy flavor. 1 cup lentils, washed and picked over 1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil 1 medium onion, chopped 2 garlic cloves, minced  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 1 carrot, diced 1 stalk of celery, diced Salt to taste 1 14-ounce can chopped tomatoes, with juice 5 cups water A bouquet garni made with 2 sprigs rosemary and 1 bay leaf Freshly ground pepper to taste Grated Parmesan or Gruyère for serving 1 to 2 tablespoons chopped flat-leaf parsley 1. Heat the olive oil over medium heat in a heavy soup pot or Dutch oven, and add the onion. Cook, stirring, until tender, about five minutes. Add the garlic, carrot and celery, and a generous pinch of salt, and continue to cook for another five minutes until tender. Add the tomatoes and bouquet garni, and cook, stirring often, until the tomatoes have cooked down somewhat and smell fragrant, about 10 minutes. Add the lentils, water and salt to taste. Bring to a boil. Reduce the heat, cover and simmer gently one hour. Taste and adjust seasonings. Remove the bouquet garni, and stir in the parsley. Serve, garnishing each bowl with Parmesan or Gruyère. Variation: For an even more substantial, minestrone-like soup, add 1 cup cooked elbow macaroni or rice just before serving. Yield: Serves four. Advance preparation: This soup will improve overnight, and keeps well for three or four days, though you will probably finish it sooner. It can be frozen for a couple of months. Martha Rose Shulman can be reached at martha-rose-shulman.com We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »