Advertisement By JOHN SCHWARTZDEC. 7, 2007
 The all-male crew for the current shuttle mission to the International Space Station is remarkably international in its composition — and has remarkably little experience in space. The mission commander, Cmdr. Stephen N. Frick of the Navy, has flown just once before, in 2002. Col. Rex J. Walheim also has just one mission under his belt — the same Atlantis mission in 2002 as Commander Frick. The other three Americans on board are rookies. Two European astronauts are on this mission and accompanying the European-made Columbus science module to the station, and have one flight apiece. Hans Schlegel took part in a space shuttle flight in 1993, and Gen. Léopold Eyharts flew with a Russian crew to the Mir space station in 1998. Commander Frick noted that during his 2002 mission, he flew with Col. Jerry L. Ross, a veteran of seven flights. “Jerry has almost twice as many flights, by himself, as our whole crew,” he said with a smile. “It’s a challenge,” he said, because “there are things that you learn in space from flying two, three, four times, that would be second nature to you, that frankly wouldn’t be for us. We have to think it through.” He added, however, that astronaut training is thorough, and includes sessions with astronauts who have flown before so that neophyte crew members can ask “the thousand things you have to know to be able to manage yourself and manage life in space so that you have time and energy left over to do the mission.” Advertisement Part of the reason for so many rookies is NASA’s desire to get as many of its “unflown” astronauts to space before the shuttle program is wound down in 2010, making way for the next generation of vehicles, known as Constellation. Those new craft, however, are not likely to fly before 2015. “We have to be ready to have experienced crews that can help us learn how to fly the Constellation vehicles,” he said. “If we don’t fly new folks now in the shuttle, all the folks that have flown four, five, six times are going to be gone by the time we are flying the new vehicle regularly.” Advertisement The members of the crew: Stephen N. Frick A commander in the Navy as well as commander of this mission, Commander Frick was raised in Gibsonia, Penn. and graduated from the Naval Academy. He earned a master of science degree in aeronautical engineering from the Navy’s postgraduate school as well. He is 43; his hobbies are skiing, hiking and camping, according to his official NASA biography. He is married to Jennifer Rhatigan, a NASA rocket scientist and part-time yoga teacher. This is Commander Frick’s second space flight, but he is a seasoned pilot, having flown 35 different airplanes and having performed more than 370 aircraft carrier landings. As a Navy pilot during the first Gulf War, he flew 36 combat missions into Iraq and Kuwait. He acknowledged that the shuttle is still serving up new safety issues — recent ones have included the continuing problem of insulating foam falling off of the shuttle’s external tank, and the thermal tiles on the leading edge of the wings — but he says that such surprises should actually be anything but surprises. “ I mean, if you look at the total number of shuttle flights that there have been in what, 25 years, and compare that to the number of flights that an aircraft has before it’s introduced into any role, whether it’s a military role or civilian role, you know, we’re at the beginning of a test program,” he said. “Maybe it’s taken 25 years, but there’s no way you’re going to fly as few flights as we have with the space shuttle and not keep discovering new things. So we do, and we deal with them.” As for the decision to continue flying the shuttles while studying the questions that have been raised in recent months about the wing panels, he said, “ we’ve watched the problems that have come up, the issues they’ve had to deal with and the way they’ve gone through learning about it and deciding if it was safe or not. And we’re very comfortable with the decision making.” Cmdr. Alan G. Poindexter The pilot for this mission, Cmdr. Alan G. Poindexter of the Navy, is 46 and was calls Rockville, Md. his hometown. He and his wife, Lisa A. Pfeiffer, have two sons, ages 22 and 18. He enjoys motorcycling, running, lifting weights, hunting, fishing and many other outdoor activities. Of the rugged pastimes, he said, “It all goes with the type of personality of folks that work in our office. And you know, we’re all outgoing, we’re all somewhat adventurous, we all enjoy seeing new things and learning new things and experiencing new things.” Advertisement He graduated from the Georgia Institute of Technology with a bachelor of aerospace engineering degree and earned a masters degree in aeronautical engineering from the naval postgraduate school. He was selected to be an astronaut in 1998, and has been waiting nearly 10 years for his first trip to space. But he says that waiting comes with the job. A former head of the astronaut office, he said, “ told me that working in the space program is a privilege and that flying into space is the icing on the cake. And if you ever get to do it, it’s great; but if you don’t, then you’ve always had the experience of working at NASA with human space flight. So that’s the way I’ve looked at it, is that my time will come, if the time is right.” Col. Rex J. Walheim Colonel Walheim, 45, of the Air Force, will be the lead spacewalker during this mission. He grew up in California, and calls San Carlos, Calif., his hometown. He is married to the former Margie Dotson and they have two children, ages 9 and 11. Ms. Dotson, a graphic designer, created the distinctive mission patch for this flight: a squared-off border containing a stylized representation of a Columbus-era sailing ship sailing in the wake of the shuttle. The sailing ship represents the Columbus module, the new European-built science lab that the astronauts will bring up to the space station. Colonel Walheim performed two spacewalks on his previous mission, in 2002, and will take part in three in this mission. He said he has some unfinished business from his first flight. “I remember seeing thunderstorms and the Aurora Borealis, which were spectacular. But one thing on my to-do list is to see a big city at night.” Memories fade, he said, and in the years since that first flight, “I’ve thought, ‘Did I really ever see a big city from space at night?’ And it’s bugged me that I can’t remember seeing a big city from space at night,” he said. From working closely with international counterparts like Mr. Schlegel and General Eyharts, he said that the close collaboration among nations to make missions happen could prove to be a lesson that stretches well beyond the space program. “You can imagine a politician coming by the mission control center here and seeing how we’re working together with all these different countries and think, ‘Man, these guys are doing it right.’ ” Leland D. Melvin: Leland Melvin never got to play in the big leagues — until now. Mr. Melvin played football for the University of Richmond and was recruited by the Detroit Lions in 1986; a hamstring injury in the second week of training camp got him cut from the team before his first season ever started. He was picked up by the Dallas Cowboys the next year — but once again, a summer injury kept him off the field. For many athletes, the story ends there. But Mr. Melvin, who is 43 and unmarried, had a backup plan. He had taken his studies seriously, and had always loved math and chemistry. “I went back to grad school full time,” he said. He earned a master’s degree in materials science engineering from the University of Virginia and took a job with NASA in Virginia. He did not have a lifelong ambition to be an astronaut, but was pushed by friends in the program to apply. Now he is taking his first flight, and will operate the robot arms aboard the shuttle and station. Advertisement There were things about football, he said, that have stayed with him as he has gone though his astronaut training — including performance and teamwork under pressure. He compared it to the relationship between a wide receiver and a quarterback, with “60,000 people in the stadium, the crowd screaming,” he recalled, and “the communication that you’re doing is now nonverbal and you just know what you’re going to do if the defense changes or if something happens. You just are in sync, and you know exactly what to do to get mission success, which is touchdown.” In NASA training simulations, he said, the problems come fast and frequently, and it all comes down to quick action based on nonverbal cues, with a glance and a gesture toward a switch and a thumbs up. “It’s that just knowing what that next step is,” he said.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. He often speaks to schoolchildren, he said, and “They want to be a football player, a basketball player or a singer, a rapper, something. I say, well, you know, you can achieve any dream that you want — but what if, on one day, you go out there to dunk the basketball and you come down on someone’s foot and you twist your ankle and you can’t play anymore? You’ve got pins in your ankle and your dream of being a ball player’s gone. What are you going to do then? How are your grades? Do you have C’s, B’s or A’s or F’s or D’s? What do you have?” His experience, he said, helps him to drive the message home. “I was at the place that they want to be,” he said. “I had a backup plan, and that was education. So while you’re studying your plays and trying to be the best ballplayer you can, do your grades the same way. You can do it, if you just put your mind to it.” He knows well how dangerous space flight can be. He was a good friend of David Brown, who died when the shuttle Columbia broke up over Texas in 2003. “The night of the accident I went to his father’s house in Washington, Va.,” he recalled, “and his father looked at me and said, ‘my son is gone. He was living his dream but the biggest tragedy would be if you guys don’t continue to carry on their legacy by flying in space.’ ” So he takes the risks himself, he said, in part to inspire students and in part to carry on a legacy. “It’s a combination of the fallen heroes and the future that leads me and carries me on to stay inspired to do the best that I can.” he said. Stanley G. Love  Mr. Love is an ebullient man of science, with an undergraduate physics degree from Harvey Mudd College and a master’s degree and doctorate in astronomy from the University of Washington. Raised in Eugene, Ore., he is married and has two boys, ages 8 and 11. He applied repeatedly for the astronaut program while working for NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory. “I have tried to treat the astronaut career as a lottery ticket,” he said, and “my lottery ticket came up.” And he says he is excited to be part of a team that is expanding the capacity of the International Space Station for conducting scientific research with the Columbus module and two complex scientific instruments that will sit outside of the new module. “I have a lot of scientist friends, and they sometimes razz me” about the lack of research performed aboard the $100 billion orbiting laboratory. His response: “I’m sorry, we’re doing our best. It’s hard to do science in a construction zone.” Advertisement He is engaging and effusive in a job that tends to attract the taciturn. But he looks chagrined when asked about his selection as a spacewalker on this mission. In fact, he said, in his initial evaluation, he recalled, the decision was “I would be a miserable spacewalker — do not send this guy out the hatch.” He would not discuss what went wrong — “it just didn’t go well,” was all he would say. But he had supporters who believed in him, and as the mission requirements grew, he was given another shot. “So my spacewalk training has been a long climb out of the hole that I dug myself into during the initial training.” He said he bristles when he hears people claim that money should not be spent on space exploration. “So many of the things that we invest — our time, our money, our resources, our lives in — are selfish or mean, violent. Exploration is something that we can throw ourselves into and feel like we’re doing something worthwhile.” What he is engaged in, he said, is part of the deeply human urge to explore. “If I had lived 100 years ago, I would have wanted to see the Arctic or the Antarctic, or to go to someplace exotic like Australia,” he said. Like every astronaut with young children, he said, he has been straightforward about the bad things that might happen when you work in a place as dangerous as space. “The risk of going on the space shuttle is about like the risk of trying to climb Mt. Everest or doing a tour of duty in Iraq or working on a fishing boat on the Gulf of Alaska. And so that’s the way we’ve tried to explain the risk.” The shuttle, he said, is now about as safe as it can be made within the resources the agency has. “You could throw an infinite amount of money at the space shuttle and make it incrementally more safe,” he said, but “We don’t have an infinite amount of money. I have full confidence that we’re doing the best we have with what we’ve got — and that’s as much as you can ask from anyone or any organization.” Hans Schlegel Mr. Schlegel, a German astronaut representing the European Space Agency aboard this flight, has been to space before — but it was a long time ago. He flew aboard the shuttle Columbia in 1993. He loves outdoor activities like skiing, scuba diving and flying, but also prides himself on his abilities as a handyman. He said he is looking forward to seeing how he adjusts to zero gravity again after all this time. “You learn to live again, a different life,” he said. “Gravity is so prevalent in everything we do here, you cannot imagine. It reigns everything and all of a sudden you are missing it, so everything feels different,” he said. “All of a sudden you are not friction based, you float momentum based. And in another aspect, you look up — there is no up. Up and down, there is none. It’s all in your head, in your brain.” He is 56, married to Heike Schlegel-Walpot, and has seven children from this and two previous marriages. He is the fifth of nine siblings. “I am a team player,” he said. Advertisement The Columbus module, he said, is important for Europe. “It’s the first time that Europe has access to space 365 days a year, 24 hours,” he said. And it is of “immense importance,” he said, for Europe to have a stake in the International Space Station, which will be “giving a feeling of pride, of independence, of fully being a partner” in the effort, he said. And it is especially fitting, he said, that the module should be named Columbus. “Columbus, who re-found America, and was a European from one country, sponsored by another country to discover America again,” he said. Gen. Léopold Eyharts General Eyharts, who serves in the French Air Force and is from Biarritz, France, is married and has a 9-year-old son. He is 50, and though he has never flown aboard the space shuttle, he visited the Russian Mir Space Station in 1998 in the Russian Soyuz craft, spending three weeks on orbit. His trip to Mir came at a troubled time for the Russian outpost, following an onboard fire and a collision with an unmanned cargo vehicle. Those problems caused a delay of some six months while power problems caused by the collision could be addressed, but his own visit went well, he said. “When I was onboard, everything went fine.” This trip to space will be much longer: When the shuttle leaves, he will stay behind aboard the station, taking the place of an American astronaut, Daniel M. Tani. He will be working to outfit the Columbus module for its life as a science laboratory. When asked about what he might miss on a stay aboard the station that could be three months or longer, depending on launch schedules, he acknowledged that doing without wine might be an issue. “If you’re going for 10 days, you know, that’s O.K., but if you’re going for three months, yeah, I will miss it, I’m sure. I’m really French.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »