Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
 HENRY FOUNTAIN
 
FEB. 26, 2008
 The world is a dusty place. If you don’t believe that, just look under your bed. But it’s dusty on regional and global scales, too, largely because of soil erosion caused by winds. The world is becoming  even dustier, and changes in land use are at least partly responsible. As land is cleared for agriculture, for instance, the soil loses stability and more particles are blown into the atmosphere. That seems clear now, but how long have land-use changes been having effects? About 200 years in the Western United States, according to a study in Nature Geoscience. Jason C. Neff of the University of Colorado and colleagues show that dust accumulation increased greatly in the 19th century and suggest that Western settlement, particularly intensive grazing by livestock, is responsible. The researchers studied lake sediments in the San Juan Mountains in southwestern  Colorado and found that over the last two centuries the rate of dust deposition has increased about fivefold over the average for the previous 5,000 years. The deposition peaked in the mid-20th century, about the time the federal government took steps to control grazing, having realized that the land was being practically stripped bare. Advertisement Droughts can contribute to soil erosion, but the researchers point out that in the past two centuries droughts have been less extreme than in centuries before. So it is unlikely they were responsible for much of the increase in dust. Soil particles contain minerals and nutrients like potassium, calcium, phosphorous and nitrogen that can affect  lake ecosystems by changing the alkalinity of the water and increasing the growth of algae and other organisms. Advertisement Although the increasing dust has been a regional phenomenon, its impact may be  felt much more locally, in Western lakes like those that were part of the study. But probably not under your bed. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F3 of the New York edition with the headline: Tracking the Rise And Decline of Dust In the Western U.S.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »