Advertisement By KENNETH CHANGFEB. 19, 2008
 Preliminary calculations by NASA last summer suggested that the rocket it had on the drawing board to replace the space shuttle possessed a design flaw: vibrations in the booster might shake the top of the rocket so violently that any astronauts riding aboard would suffer severe, perhaps fatal, injuries. That sounds alarming, but NASA officials insist it is just a step in the process of designing and engineering — identifying problems and solving them. And they say the vibrations — “thrust oscillations” in the language of rocket scientists — are understood and will be fixed well before astronauts fly. Michael D. Griffin, NASA’s administrator, said the oscillation “is not a significant problem, and to the extent that it needs solutions, we’ve got three or four ways to go after it.” In 2004, NASA announced plans to develop a family of rockets, collectively known as the Constellation program, to replace the three-decade-old shuttles, due to be retired in 2010. The first, Ares I, is to have its first test flight next year. Advertisement To understand the engineering challenge, here is the key thing to know: Unlike most space-bound rockets that use liquid oxygen and hydrogen for fuel, Ares’ first stage will use solid rocket propellant, borrowing the design of the shuttle’s solid fuel boosters. Advertisement With a solid-fuel rocket, the fuel burns outward from the center of its cylindrical core. When the fuel is gone, what is left is a hollow metal tube — one that behaves remarkably like an organ pipe. The rich sounds of an organ result from the blowing of air through the pipes. When the wavelength of the vibrations equals the length of the pipe, the vibrations are amplified and the resulting resonance produces the note. In much the same way, the Ares I booster also resonates — at a frequency of 15 hertz, or 15 times a second.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The booster vibrations were not a problem with the space shuttle because the full spacecraft did not vibrate at the booster frequency. But with the Ares I, it appears that the full stack of stages — booster, second stage and Orion crew vehicle — has a resonating frequency near 15 hertz. Thus, as the first stage burned out and started vibrating, it might have caused the entire rocket to shake. “There is a potential to reach resonance in the vehicle,” said Garry Lyles, associate director for engineering at NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Ala., who is head of the team. The calculations were based on data from ground tests on the shuttle boosters and some gathered during shuttle flights, as well as best guesses based on the preliminary design of Orion. The vibrations would not be violent enough to shake the rocket to pieces, he said. Rather, the concerns were that the vibrations could injure equipment or passengers, exceeding the limits specified in design documents. Still, Mr. Lyles said there would be no need for a full-scale redesign. Additional analysis has indicated the problem is not as severe as first thought, and the two vibrational frequencies may turn out to be far enough apart, more than 10 percent, that nothing needs to be changed at all. If fixes are necessary, rocket scientists know what to do. A shock absorber could be added between the first and second stages, or the structure could be modified to change the resonance frequency. Advertisement Dr. Griffin, himself an engineer, said the problems associated with resonance frequencies were not unusual. “The vibration challenge we call thrust oscillation,” he said, “is the type of problem we would expect to encounter in an engineering development project, which is exactly what the Ares I is.” An article in Science Times on Tuesday about a design flaw in the Ares I, the rocket NASA plans to use to replace the space shuttle, misstated the process by which a solid-fuel rocket burns its fuel. It burns outward from the center of its cylindrical core, not from bottom to top. William Harwood and Warren E. Leary contributed reporting. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F4 of the New York edition with the headline: NASA Insists It Can Fix Flaw in Rocket Design.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »