Advertisement By JANE E. BRODYAUG. 18, 2008
 Patients armed with clear-cut facts are often  able to make wiser choices about their care. Yet doctors  are often reluctant to broach these matters. In their review in The Journal of the American Medical Association of the role of chemotherapy at the end of life, Dr. Thomas J. Smith and Dr. Sarah Elizabeth Harrington listed these questions  to ask — of professionals and of yourself — when considering  chemotherapy that is unlikely to cure the  cancer but may extend the length and quality of life. Treatment and Prognosis What is my chance of cure? What is the chance that this chemotherapy will make my cancer shrink? Stay stable? Grow? If I cannot be cured, will I live longer with chemotherapy? How much longer? What are the main side effects of the chemotherapy? Advertisement Will I feel better or worse? Are there other options, like  hospice or palliative care? How do other people make these decisions? Advertisement Are there clinical trials available? What are the benefits? Am I eligible? What is needed to enroll? What are the likely things that will happen to me?  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. How long will I live? (Ask for a range, and the most likely scenario for the period ahead, and when death might be expected.) Planning  Are there other things I should be doing? Should I prepare a will? Do I have an advance directive? Have I assigned a durable power of attorney for health care? Are there financial or family legal issues that should be addressed? Do I need a durable power of attorney for financial affairs? Should I be setting up a trust? Family issues: Will you help me talk with my children? Spiritual and psychological issues: Who can help me cope? Legacy and life review: What do I want to pass on to my family to tell them about my life? A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F7 of the New York edition with the headline: Questions Patients Should Ask.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »