Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
 HENRY FOUNTAIN
 
OCT. 10, 2008
 We are all accidental Johnny Appleseeds. Along with wind, water and animals, people can spread seeds around. They get picked up by shoes or car tires, for example, and end up elsewhere. “But we’ve never looked at quantifying it, at how many seeds get transported over what distances,” said Matthias C. Wichmann of the Center for Ecology and Hydrology at Wallingford,  England. Dr. Wichmann and a research team  have now done that, and their findings are surprising: seeds can  ride on shoes for miles. In the study, in The Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences, the researchers looked at two wild plants found  along a cliffside path in southern England that is frequented by millions of day hikers annually. Advertisement So they devised laboratory experiments in which people wearing hiking shoes or rubber boots stepped in mud, then stepped in a tray containing a specific number of seeds, and then walked a given distance, from one meter (three  feet, three inches) to five kilometers (a little over three miles). Seeds remaining on the shoes were then counted. They found that, as might be expected, most of the seeds fell off during the first 10 to 20 meters. But even with walks of five kilometers, a few seeds remained. Computer simulations showed that dispersal by shoes was more important over long distances than dispersal by wind, which with these seeds is generally limited to about 250 meters. Advertisement Dr. Wichmann said that while such long-distance dispersal by walking might be rare, it might have a profound effect on the spread of certain species, particularly invasive ones that are new to a region. “Only a few seeds may go very far,” he said. “But these are the pioneers — they colonize new sites.” A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Plant Seeds Hitch Rides On Traveling Shoes, Sometimes for Miles.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »