Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
 HENRY FOUNTAIN
 
MARCH 18, 2008
 DEET is the most widely used insect repellent in the world, and for good reason — just a dab or two of a DEET-laden liquid on exposed skin keeps mosquitoes and other bugs away. It may be great stuff, but DEET (short for N,N-diethyl-meta-toluamide) has also been a great mystery since it was developed after World War II. No one has known why it does what it does. All researchers really knew, said Leslie B. Vosshall, a researcher at Rockefeller University in New York, “is that it had something to do with insect smell.” Now Dr. Vosshall, with her colleagues Mathias Ditzen and Maurizio Pellegrino, has uncovered DEET’s secret. It does indeed have something to do with smell: it jams odorant receptors in insect nervous systems, in effect masking odors that would ordinarily attract the bugs. DEET doesn’t block all receptors, the researchers report in a study published online by Science. In experiments with mosquitoes and fruit flies, they showed that the chemical inhibited receptors for three compounds in human sweat. These receptors and others work in combination with a co-receptor, a protein called OR83b. While DEET is an effective repellent, it doesn’t work against all bugs, it’s corrosive to plastics and there are concerns about its effect on human health. Now that they know that DEET targets OR83b co-receptors, Dr. Vosshall said, they can quickly screen thousands of other compounds in hope of finding one that is more effective and has fewer disadvantages. “DEET seems to work better at blocking some receptors rather than others,” Dr. Vosshall said. “Our goal is to find something that would block all of them. If you get that, you can get every insect on earth.” A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F3 of the New York edition with the headline: The Secret of DEET? It Masks Odors That Usually Attract Bugs.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »