Advertisement By HELENE STAPINSKIDEC. 1, 2014
 Behind a black curtain in a downstairs corner of the National Museum of Mathematics in Manhattan (known as MoMath), a small group of mathematicians, designers and engineers was hard at work — laughing, shouting, clapping and having a blast, while being chased by robots. They were doing final testing on an exhibit called Robot Swarm, opening Dec. 14 and featuring dozens of glowing, motorized, interactive robots that resemble horseshoe crabs. The museum says it is the nation’s most technologically ambitious robotics exhibit. But the assembled experts, standing in stocking feet, were as excited as a gaggle of 6-year-olds. Sealed under an 11-by-12-foot glass floor, the small, colored robots swarm, skitter and react to whoever is standing on top of the glass. It is a strangely exhilarating sensation to be shoeless and have creatures — albeit human-made, computer-controlled creatures — react to your every step. Advertisement “It’s cool, right?” asked a creator of the exhibit, Glen Whitney, who is also a co-founder of the museum. “It’s a feeling of power.” Advertisement Four visitors at a time will don harnesses with a small “reflector pod” on the right shoulder. That sends a location signal to overhead cameras, which transmit the information to the robots — which, in turn, move in accord with a variety of programmed settings determined by visitors working a control panel. Set the robots to “Run Away” mode, for example, and you can’t help feeling like Godzilla, stomping around the glass floor and scattering the frightened robots to the far corners of the grid. “Pursue” mode can be downright creepy, with the robots — like giant glowing cockroaches or trilobites — following you everywhere, trying to get as close to you as possible, surrounding you and then refusing to go away — until the algorithm is changed. In the more amusing “Spin” mode, the robots play a game of Simon Says, turning in whatever direction you turn, spinning when you spin. A robot exhibit at New York City’s Museum of Math shows how simple interactions lead to large-scale, organized behavior. In “Swarm” mode, the robots instead follow one another, like children chasing a soccer ball. In “Robophobia,” they try to get as far away from one another as they can, eventually settling on a static arrangement that maximizes the distance between each one; that usually results in a pattern, much like the particles in a crystal. And in “On Your Marks,” they organize themselves by color, making their way around the play area like tiny bumper cars until they locate the others in their group and line up accordingly. When the robots run low on power, they leave the play area and go to the nearby docking zone to recharge. They are immediately replaced by another robot, as if part of an artificially intelligent hockey team. Beyond the fun factor, the robots demonstrate a hot topic of research these days: the mathematics of emergent behavior. “The rules that govern the movement of the robots are very simple and easy to state mathematically,” said Dr. Whitney, who conceived the exhibit in 2009. “It’s not like each robot is transported out of its body and can see the entire play area. They understand what’s going on in their neighborhood. It’s a matter of doing something little and simple, and following the rules. What you get is more than the sum of the parts.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. These simple, local interactions lead to large-scale organized behavior, similar to schools of fish and flocks of geese. “These behaviors seem very organic and very complex to the point of intelligence,” Dr. Whitney said. “But it’s not a matter of intelligence. Once the behavior is boiled down to three little mathematical principles; you can understand how those behaviors could have evolved over time.” Advertisement But translating it all into an exhibit was not so easy. Before MoMath even opened two years ago, its founders discussed their idea for the exhibit with the Siegel family, patrons of the museum, who were skeptical it could be done. The Siegels put them in touch with a leading roboticist, James McLurkin of Rice University in Texas. “I got this email from these crazy math people out of the blue who wanted to build a giant robot exhibit,” Dr. McLurkin said. “When they sketched out their plans, and all the technology — they wanted to attract people, have robots in the floor, cameras looking down — I was like, ‘Wait a minute.’ ” “But we went through it, and it all came down to the tracking technology” — the floor’s robot positioning system, he added. “The tracking was brand-new and very aggressive. If you have the floor tracking working, you’re left with massive engineering as opposed to massive research.” By tracking, he means that every robot has a camera underneath it, pointing down at a surface made up of tiny, intricate circles that are part of a Cartesian coordinate system. Each robot knows its coordinates and reports them via Wi-Fi to the computer overseeing the system. The computer then takes that information and tells the robots what to do. It instructs them to drive their motors left and right to achieve the goal they want, in the chosen setting: “Run Away,” “Pursue” and so on. This past summer, Dr. McLurkin joined the team in New York, working with Knowledge Resources of Basel, Switzerland, and Three Byte Intermedia, a New York company that has provided the technology for many of the museum’s exhibits. Tim Nissen, the museum’s chief designer, gave the robots an organic, lifelike look, including little eyes. “As one comes over to you and is looking at you with those eyes, you have the sense that you’re interacting with something, feeling as if these are creatures,” said Cindy Lawrence, a co-founder of the museum. The robots also make noise, a subtle high-pitched chirping from their electric motors. “Nobody knew what the robots would sound like because they were not designed with any audio component,” Dr. Whitney said, “but they have a personality and a characteristic sound.” Their colors — blue, yellow, green and red — will correspond to the color of each participant’s harness. Though about two dozen robots will interact in each session, there are 100 robots altogether, some part of an exhibit that will travel to schools and conferences around the country. MoMath hopes that Robot Swarm will appeal to all age groups: from toddlers who will simply chase the robots around to older students who will grasp the mathematical concepts behind it all. (In particular, the “On Your Marks” setting will enable aspiring computer programmers to witness lines of code coming to life.) College-age engineering students may want to read the research papers on which the exhibit is based. Advertisement No matter who dances across the glass, “it’s a full-body experience,” Ms. Lawrence said. “It shows that math is not just about sitting at a table and figuring something out. This is the opposite of that. It’s all about exploration.” Robot Swarm opens Dec. 14 at the National Museum of Mathematics, 11 East 26th Street, Manhattan. The museum is open daily from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Information: momath.org.  A version of this article appears in print on December 2, 2014, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Math That Pursues, Spins and Swarms.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »