Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

OCT. 13, 2008
 Mid-October is my cut-off date for using fresh tomatoes. They’re still around, both in my farmers’ market and lingering on my vines, but now that it’s mid-autumn and the light has changed, I’m on to buying other types of produce at the market. For all of my tomato needs between now and next summer I’ll turn to canned tomatoes, which have as many nutrients, including  beta-carotene, vitamins C and A, and potassium —  and even more lycopene  — than fresh tomatoes do. Canned tomatoes are essential in a healthy pantry. This week’s recipes focus on some pasta dishes that require nothing more than ingredients you can easily keep on hand in your cupboards and refrigerator. This column is all about empowering you to cook healthy meals for yourself, and with a well-stocked pantry you’ll be able to do that even if you haven’t had time to shop for fresh produce. Simple Marinara Sauce Yield: Enough for 4 pasta servings This is the marinara sauce I make all winter. It’s very similar to a fresh tomato sauce recipe, but canned tomatoes stand in for the fresh ones so you won’t have to peel the tomatoes or put them through a food mill. If you buy chopped tomatoes in juice, you won’t even have to dice them. 1 (28-ounce) can tomatoes, seeded and chopped if not already chopped, with juice 1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil Advertisement 2 garlic cloves, minced 1/8 teaspoon sugar A few sprigs of fresh basil, if available (see variations below) Salt to taste 1 tablespoon slivered fresh basil (optional) 1. Pulse the chopped tomatoes in a food processor fitted with the steel blade, or pass through the medium blade of a food mill before you begin. Heat the oil over medium heat in a large, wide nonstick skillet or saucepan and add the garlic. Cook, stirring, for 30 seconds to a minute, until it begins to smell fragrant, and add the tomatoes and their juice, the sugar, salt, and basil sprigs. Stir and turn up the heat. When the tomatoes begin to bubble, lower the heat to medium and cook, stirring often, until thick and fragrant, 15 to 20 minutes, or longer if necessary. Remove the basil sprigs and wipe any sauce adhering to them back into the pan. Taste and adjust seasonings. Stir in the slivered basil. Advertisement Variations: Substitute 1 teaspoon fresh thyme leaves or 1/2 teaspoon dried thyme for the basil Substitute 1 teaspoon dried oregano for the basil. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »