Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
 HENRY FOUNTAIN
 
FEB. 5, 2008
 Wild populations of chimpanzees and other great apes are in trouble in many areas, mostly because of hunting and loss of habitat. Conservationists know that other activities, like research and ecological tourism, can help by suppressing poaching and providing an alternative source of income for local people. But to study or see chimps, you have to get pretty close to them. And that can cause problems, too. Researchers in Germany have determined that in the past decade, human viruses spread to chimpanzee populations in the Ivory Coast, causing outbreaks of respiratory disease among the apes that were in some cases fatal. They report in Current Biology that this is the first direct evidence of virus transmission to wild apes from humans; the spread of bacterial and parasitic infections had been noted previously. Sophie Köndgen, Hjalmar Kühl and Paul K. N’Goran, all with the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, and colleagues identified several pathogens in tissues from chimps that died in the outbreaks in Taï National Park, where chimps are accustomed to the presence of people. Among them were strains of human respiratory syncytial virus, or HRSV, and of human metapneumovirus, or HMPV, both leading causes of respiratory disease in people. Genetic analysis showed that these strains diverged from human strains less than 10 years before. That’s an  indication that the viruses, which can be shed in respiration, sweat and feces, were transmitted to apes from  people. The researchers say that scientists and tourists who are around chimpanzees should follow strict hygiene procedures — even wearing masks in certain situations — to reduce the risk to the animals. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F3 of the New York edition with the headline: Human Viruses Cause Respiratory Outbreaks In Ivory Coast Chimps.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »