Advertisement By NICHOLAS BAKALARDEC. 2, 2014
 Every New Yorker has seen it — a rat nosing through a potato chip bag on the subway tracks, a pigeon dodging traffic while pecking at a pizza crust, a squirrel diffidently approaching the remains of a turkey sandwich abandoned on a park bench. But it turns out that these enthusiastic garbage collectors are not the only animals cleaning up the mess we make. A new study, published Tuesday in the journal Global Change Biology, has found that millions of tiny insects are also picking up after us, potentially consuming the equivalent of 60,000 frankfurters a year — and that just on a stretch of 150 blocks of median strips in Manhattan. During the summer of 2013, researchers working in parks and on street medians in Manhattan measured temperature and humidity and sampled the population of arthropods — ants, millipedes, mites, spiders and others. Among other things, they were interested in finding out what effect the flooding caused by Hurricane Sandy had had on the city’s fauna. To establish the diversity of species at each site, they sifted through the leaf litter and sucked ants into an aspirator by hand. They extracted 16,294 bugs, including representatives of 32 species of ants. Advertisement The researchers, working with elaborate equipment in Central Park, Riverside Park, Inwood Hill Park and other green places, attracted attention. “We had some people come up and say studying insects was interesting,” said the lead author, Elsa Youngsteadt, a research associate at North Carolina State University. “Others just wanted to know how to kill them.” Advertisement The scientists placed a supply of enticing comestibles — well, all right, junk food — at each site: Ruffles potato chips, Nabisco Nilla Wafers and Oscar Mayer Extra Lean Franks, all carefully weighed. They put some of the food in a cage that allowed insects in but kept out rats, squirrels and other vertebrates. The rest was placed where any animal could eat it, covered only with a shelter to keep it dry. After about 24 hours, they returned to each site to see what had been consumed.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. On a third of the street medians, insects ate 100 percent of the caged food. Where all animals had access, about twice as much food was removed, suggesting that vertebrates and insects have more or less the same diet. Contrary to expectations, it made no difference whether the area had been flooded or not: Even at sites previously covered with brackish water, plenty of animals had returned. Potato chips and cookies were universally preferred; hot dogs were generally leftovers. The city’s Department of Health and Mental Hygiene had a practical take on the results. The study, said a spokesman, Levi Fishman, “confirms that street litter, particularly discarded food, is a major source of food for rats and other pests, which is why we encourage the public to dispose of garbage in one of the many trash receptacles throughout the city.” Urban ecology has not been widely researched, Dr. Youngsteadt said, often neglected in favor of studying protected natural areas. “But,” she added, “more than half the world’s population lives in cities, and we have to decide how the organisms that live around us provide services or disservices to us.” Christopher M. Swan, an associate professor of geography and environmental systems at the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, who was not involved in the study, said the work could serve as an example of how such experiments should be performed. “We don’t see studies like this in urban places,” he said. “The environment in a city is performing a function. In this case, it turns out that arthropods are removing refuse. Studies like this have to happen, and this is a pretty good one.” The researchers estimate that in a single, blocklong median strip, over an active period of five to eight months, insects could remove about nine to 14 pounds of garbage. In 150 blocks of street medians, that adds up to 1,300 to 2,100 pounds of dry weight a year. Dr. Youngsteadt says insects are helping New Yorkers by competing for food with rats. “You may not like ants,” she said, “but you probably like rats even less.” A version of this article appears in print on December 2, 2014, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Picking Up After Us a Crumb at a Time.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »