Advertisement By GINA KOLATADEC. 1, 2014
 CAMBRIDGE, Mass. —  An old two-story brick building in a shabby part of town, formerly a distribution center for Budweiser beer, is now the world’s most powerful factory for analyzing genes from people and viruses. And it is a factory. At any given time, 10,000 tiny test tubes each holding a few drops of gene-containing fluid are being processed by six technicians, working 24 hours a day, 365 days a year — two on the night shift — using 50 dishwasher-sized machines in two large rooms. The machines spit out sequence data onto a computer screen in the form of a long list, in order, of the letters that make up genetic material. That is three billion letters if the genes are from a person. Another 64 technicians do the more labor-intensive work of preparing the samples for analysis. It is all in service of researchers who work for the Broad Institute, a gleaming, lavishly endowed genetics center a few blocks away. The sequencing center has worked on human DNA from an international effort, the 1,000 Genomes Project, that looks at the genes of thousands of people from around the world. It has gotten sequences of microbes, like dengue fever, malaria and West Nile virus. It has gotten genetic sequences from animals like chimpanzees. Advertisement And it is here that Broad scientists studying Ebola and a similar deadly disease, Lassa, send their samples, taking advantage of what the center’s manager, Andrew J. Hollinger, referred to as superfast track sequencing in their urgent work on these diseases ravaging West Africa. Those scientists receive their sequence data in about 40 hours, compared with days for the usual work. The Ebola and Lassa group, led by Pardis Sabeti, wants to know what the viruses look like. Do they mutate while they are infecting people, possibly evading the immune system? Are some strains more deadly than others? And what about the genetics of the people who are infected? Are some people more resistant, perhaps even immune, to these viruses because of tweaks in their own genes? Advertisement The research is emblematic of a new direction in public health, which uses powerful genetic methods and applies them to entire populations. The aim is to get a detailed picture of disease epidemiology, as the disease is happening. Armed with such data, doctors should be better able to stop epidemics and researchers can get clues to treating and preventing infections. In one of their first investigations, the group traced the start of the Ebola epidemic in Sierra Leone from a single funeral in May that ended up infecting 14 women. One person who had been at that funeral showed up at Kenema Government Hospital a few hours’ drive from the village where the funeral was held. “That first case was manageable,” Dr. Sabeti said. But several weeks after the funeral, there was a fear that an epidemic could have been sparked. The fear turned out to be true. “The virus was like a tidal wave coming into the country,” Dr. Sabeti said. Sierra Leone’s department of health and safety sent epidemiologists to the remote village to trace the disease, asking who had been at the funeral and who had the funeral participants contacted. They found 14 ill with Ebola and an additional 35 people who tested negative for Ebola but had been exposed and had some symptoms. At the Broad Institute in Cambridge, researchers are sequencing the genomes of viruses like Lassa and Ebola to watch them mutate in real time. Did they really have no virus in their bodies? That’s where genetic sequencing provided an answer. “The government wanted to know if they were negative for real or was the diagnostic test just not picking Ebola up?” Dr. Sabeti said. The blood from those people was sent to the Broad Institute, where any viral genetic material in it was sequenced. Those 35 were not infected — they had no Ebola virus in their blood. But the test found the virus in the blood of the 14 who had the disease. Advertisement As the group examined the genetics of the Ebola viruses in different patients — 78 in the first few weeks of the outbreak in Sierra Leone — they noticed the virus was continually mutating, which raises questions about whether it could become airborne or more deadly.  Dr. Sabeti said the mutations were not a surprise because that was what viruses did. But, she added, “it is also always something we should be concerned about.” It probably would take many major mutations for the virus to be able to spread through the air or become more virulent, she said. “But, again, any change is one change too many, and we should stop this thing as quickly as we can.” For their continuing work on why some who are exposed to Ebola become sick and die while others escape infection or become sick and recover, the investigators need to study the genes of the patients themselves. That can be difficult. In Sierra Leone, Dr. Sabeti said, people do not want researchers studying cells of people who died. “We all want to work through these issues carefully, ” Dr. Sabeti said. “We do not want to desecrate the memories of people who died, so for now, we will be studying survivors.” While Dr. Sabeti and others work on Ebola, they also are working on Lassa and asking the same questions. Lassa virus is much more common than the Ebola virus, but Lassa and Ebola infections have many of the same symptoms: fever, vomiting, bleeding in some cases. Lassa also can have dreadful consequences — only 16 percent of those admitted to hospitals in Sierra Leone with Lassa survive. Lassa, unlike Ebola, infects the brain, so survivors often end up with permanent neurological damage like deafness, dizziness or psychiatric symptoms. Dr. Sabeti’s interest in Lassa was piqued seven years ago, before there was an Ebola epidemic, and before sequencing reached today’s low price and fast speed. She had decided to look at already-determined DNA sequences from people around the world with a simple question: Are there new gene mutations, ones that only recently emerged in a population, that might protect against disease? The idea was that if a disease entered a population and was deadly, those who carried a protective mutation would survive and reproduce and soon that good mutation would become common. She saw one such mutation in Nigeria — it was a slight tweak in a gene and so common that 34 percent of the population there has it. The gene, called LARGE, is 10 to 50 times bigger than other genes. The gene still functioned, but why did so many people have this variation?  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. It turned out that the role of the LARGE gene was well known, studied by Dr. Michael B.A. Oldstone at Scripps and his colleagues. LARGE modifies a protein on the surface of cells that the virus uses as an entryway. Without LARGE, that group found, Lassa cannot get into cells. Advertisement Now that was interesting, Dr. Sabeti thought. Could the little tweak she had found in LARGE among so many Nigerians make it harder for the virus to infect them? Lassa had been in Nigeria for about 1,000 years. If this gene mutation was protecting people, how would she know? Dr. Sabeti looked at DNA sequences from Sierra Leone, where Lassa entered about 150 years ago. Ten percent had the mutation in the LARGE gene. Elsewhere in the world, the mutation was unheard-of. This told her that it was likely that the mutation was protective. To confirm her suspicion, she had to get data — cells from people who were exposed to Lassa and fell ill and those with similar exposure who resisted the virus. That way, she could test whether the LARGE mutation was linked to a better outcome. It is a difficult project and still underway, but so far, based on a small set of data, the mutation in LARGE does appear to be protective. Dr. Sabeti was far from the first to investigate Lassa — a small contingent of researchers had been focusing on the illness for years but without the benefit of rapid genetic sequencing. The disease came to worldwide attention in the 1960s, said Dr. Joseph B. McCormick of the University of Texas School of Public Health in Brownsville, when some American missionaries became sick and died. Lassa, Dr. Sabeti said, “likely kills tens to hundreds of thousands of people every year.” She is concerned — the virus is spread by mouse urine and outbreaks occur from winter until spring, when the mice enter homes. “Everyone is so myopically focused on Ebola,” she said, that they are not testing for Lassa and other infectious diseases in many places. The challenge with Lassa and Ebola, though, was to follow the spread of the viruses in real time. And that meant finding a quick and accurate way to get the genetic sequences of Lassa and Ebola viruses from samples of blood. It took the Broad group five years to develop such a viral blood test — there is very little virus in blood samples; the blood often has been stored under less-than-ideal conditions in tropical heat; and before a sample can be examined, the researchers have to kill any viruses in it so it does not infect laboratory workers. But the chemicals that kill the viruses make it even harder to fish out the virus. “The method really came together in the past year,” Dr. Sabeti said. Now the group is starting to study how variations in the genetic sequences of the viruses affect the course of infection. And they are asking how quickly and easily the viruses spread by tracing the genetic footprints of the viral strains. “There are hundreds of mutations evolving in individuals,” she added. “We can see the new mutations emerging, and it helps us understand transmission.” She said the work could also help with the development of methods of diagnosing the diseases as well as work on vaccines and treatments. There should be practical payoffs, too. People who come to clinics ill with fevers, diarrhea or vomiting could receive an accurate diagnosis. Many clinics send blood samples to labs to test for Ebola, but those with Lassa have just been sent away, told that what they had was “not Ebola,” which does not help much. Advertisement “I proposed several years ago to do a genetic study with Ebola,” Dr. Pardis said. But it was infeasible: There were too few patients. The situation, unfortunately, has changed. A version of this article appears in print on December 2, 2014, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: The Virus Detectives.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »