Advertisement By BENEDICT CAREYJAN. 8, 2008
 A new study may help quiet fears that the suicide warning labels on antidepressants  are  scaring countless patients away from medications that could help relieve their suffering. The warnings, which were mandated in 2004 by the Food and Drug Administration, say the drugs can increase the risk of suicidal thinking or behavior in some young patients. They stirred a fierce debate among psychiatrists, health officials and patient advocates, with critics saying that the ruling (and the headlines that accompanied it) went too far. But the study, which appears Tuesday in The Archives of General Psychiatry, finds that while the warnings appear to have alerted patients and doctors to a possible risk, they have not caused a sharp decline in treatment rates. The report is not likely to be the last word on the antidepressant debate, experts said. But they added that it provided one of the clearest pictures to date of how patients and doctors behaved in the wake of a controversial  decision by drug regulators. Advertisement The researchers analyzed prescription rates from three time periods: May 2002 to June 2003, just before the debate over antidepressant side effects flared; June 2003 to October 2004, the period after the first public alert, that the drug Paxil by GlaxoSmithKline was associated with an increase in suicidal thinking in minors; and October 2004 to December 2005, the year after the F.D.A. called for prominent warnings on the labels of all antidepressants. They found that  the rate of Paxil prescriptions for children and adolescents decreased by 44 percent after the 2003 warning on that drug. But the rate for similar drugs, including Prozac by Eli Lilly, continued to increase in that age group through 2003 and fell off only slightly after the labeling change, in 2005. The rate of prescriptions to new patients — a particular concern for psychiatrists critical of the warnings — did not change significantly during the warnings or after. Prescription rates to adults increased in the years studied. Advertisement In sum, the drug agency’s warnings seemed to prompt caution rather than panic. “The concern that the warnings would have a chilling effect on the treatment of depression in young people was not born out by the data,” said the study’s lead author, Dr. Mark Olfson, a professor of clinical psychiatry at Columbia. His co-authors were Steven C. Marcus of the University of Pennsylvania and Dr. Benjamin G. Druss of Emory University. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F6 of the New York edition with the headline: Caution, Not Panic, Seen After Drug Warnings.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »