Advertisement By NICHOLAS BAKALAROCT. 12, 2009
 Among Americans 30 and older, 13.7 percent of men and 11.9 percent of women have diabetes. Almost one-third of them have never received a diagnosis of the disease. By applying statistical techniques to two databases, one with numbers gathered at the state level and the other national, researchers have arrived at what they believe are highly accurate estimates of prevalence, both diagnosed and not, in each state. Colorado, Minnesota, Montana and Vermont have low rates, with Vermont the lowest at 6.1 percent for people 30 to 59 and 19.9 percent for people over 60. Southeastern states have the highest rates, and Mississippi, where 11.4 percent of people 30 to 59 and 27.7 percent of those over 60 are diabetic, has the highest of all. “Visually it’s very clear what we found — the stark difference between the Southeast and the rest of the country,”  said the lead author, Goodarz Danaei, a research fellow in epidemiology at Harvard. “The Southern States have a very dangerous aggregation of risk factors for heart disease: obesity, high blood pressure and diabetes.” More men than women have diabetes in every state, and the gap is sometimes large. In Minnesota, for example, almost 12 percent of men have the disease, but only 8 percent of women. The variation among races is also stark. Nationally, about 18 percent of blacks and 16 percent of Hispanics have diabetes, compared with 11 percent of whites. The analysis, published in the online journal BioMed Central, has certain limitations. The researchers were unable to include family history of diabetes, physical activity, alcohol use and specific dietary risk factors in their research. Nonetheless, the report provides the only estimates of both diagnosed and undiagnosed diabetes in the United States.  More than 70,000 people die of diabetes every year, making it the sixth leading cause of death. The Vital Statistics column on Oct. 13, about a new state-by-state breakdown of diabetes cases among Americans 30 and over, referred incompletely to the findings, which were published in the online journal BioMed Central. The analysis covered all diabetes cases; it did not distinguish between Types 1 and 2. (About 95 percent of diabetes cases in those 30 and over are Type 2.) A version of this article appears in print on October 13, 2009, on Page D6 of the National edition with the headline: Diabetes: A State-by-State Breakdown.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »