Advertisement Supported by Out There By Dennis Overbye On Aug. 25, 1989, the Voyager 2 spacecraft slipped over the north pole of Neptune, then the most distant planet in the solar system, swerved south at Neptune’s big moon Triton and left the known worlds forever. Today Voyager 2 is 10 billion miles from the Sun and bumping through the magnetic frontier between the solar system and interstellar space, but planetary scientists are still poring over the data from its last planetfall, at Triton, for clues to what they might expect the next time humanity encounters a new world. That will happen July 14 next year when the New Horizons probe goes past Pluto and its icy moons, of which five are currently known. Pluto, of course, was once upon a time the smallest and most distant planet in the solar system, and the only one that has never been visited. It turns out, however, that Pluto and Triton are probably long-lost brothers. And so at the end of Voyager’s 12-year-long cosmic picture show, scientists might have seen a preview of coming attractions. Triton, Neptune’s largest moon and one of the largest in the solar system, is the only one that goes around its planet backward, in the opposite direction of Neptune’s rotation – retrograde, in astronomical lingo. Which means it couldn’t have formed out of the swirling blob of gas and dust from which Neptune presumably condensed back at the dawn of the solar system. Astronomers have concluded, therefore, that Triton is a stranger from outside Neptune’s system; the moon was kidnapped, they theorize, from the Kuiper Belt, a vast ring of icy debris left over from the formation of the solar system. It was Pluto’s similarity to Kuiper Belt objects, including an egg-shaped orbit that sometimes took it inside Neptune’s orbit, that helped seal its demise as a planet. In 2006, in a controversial vote of the International Astronomical Union, Pluto was downgraded to the status of a dwarf planet. The worlds out there in the outer solar system are basically compositions in ice. Triton is one of the brightest and whitest objects known, reflecting 95 percent of the sunlight that hits it. Strengthening the case for brotherhood, Triton and Pluto are basically the same size. Earlier this year Voyager scientists compiled a movie of Voyager 2’s encounter with Triton. Triton was a fitting capstone to the Voyager adventures, at least here in the solar system. Voyager 2 and its twin, Voyager 1, were launched in 1977 to take advantage of a rare once-in-175-year alignment of Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune to tour the outer solar system. In addition to cameras and other gear, each carried a gold record (and instructions on how to play it) with sights and sounds of Earth, including a kiss, as greetings for whoever or whatever was Out There. Voyager 1 departed the tour early, having detoured to inspect Saturn’s misty moon Titan, and then headed for the stars. Voyager 2 kept going past Uranus and Neptune before looping outward past Triton. The Voyagers cruised on, during wars, recessions, the inauguration of the space shuttle, the crack cocaine epidemic and Ronald Reagan’s “morning in America.” At every planetfall the Voyager scientists, like a graying tribe, reassembled at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif., for a refresher course on nature’s repertoire. The result was a cavalcade of discoveries, the biggest being the diversity of the moons that had been hitherto points of light in the telescopes of ground-based astronomers, now revealed as minature planetary systems in their own right, pulsing with surprise and energy: There were sulfur volcanoes on Jupiter’s moon Io, an ocean hiding under the ice of Europa, clouds of nitrogen and methane on smoggy Titan. Today astronomers agree that the leading candidates besides that old standby Mars for harboring life outside Earth – at least in our solar system – are moons of Saturn or Jupiter: the ocean of Europa, jets of water squirting from Saturn’s moon Enceladus, or even in the methane snowdrifts and lakes of Titan. To that list we might want to add Triton, whose internal energies are pumped up by tidal forces from Neptune. Voyager recorded nitrogen geysers and a landscape that seems formed by water flowing like lava and tectonic shifts. Some of its surface looks like a cantaloupe. Pluto and its biggest moon, Charon, are now locked in a tidal embrace, keeping the same faces toward each other, meaning that tidal forces in the past could have warmed both bodies and created interior oceans. If so, are those oceans still there? Where there are heat and liquid water, as the NASA mantra goes, there is always the chance of life as we barely know it. The never-ending tour continues next summer. video video  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS