Advertisement By RONI CARYN RABINDEC. 14, 2009
 Nyree Paten gained so little weight during her recent pregnancy that some of her neighbors did not even realize she was expecting. A few days before her due date, she weighed only two pounds more than she had at her first prenatal visit. But Ms. Paten, 35, of the Bronx, was under doctor’s orders to gain no more than 10 or 15 pounds — she was already about 100 pounds overweight. One-fifth of  pregnant women in the United States are obese, and more and more doctors are advising them to watch their weight if they want an easy pregnancy and a smooth delivery. In May, the Institute of Medicine issued guidelines lowering the minimum recommended weight gain for obese women to 11 pounds, from 15. Now, a large four-year trial called the Healthy Moms study is going further, trying to keep obese pregnant women from gaining any weight at all. If they do gain weight, researchers want it limited to 3 percent of their baseline weight, about 5 pounds for a woman who weighs 170 pounds. Advertisement “Pregnancy is what we call a teachable moment, a time when women are willing to make positive behavioral changes, because it’s important for their own health and their babies’ health,” said Kathleen M. Rasmussen, a professor of nutrition at Cornell who led the institute’s committee on weight gain during pregnancy. Advertisement While many women quit smoking or drinking during pregnancy, Dr. Rasmussen said, “three-quarters of pregnant women who are overweight and obese are gaining outside the recommended guidelines.” Women enrolled in the Healthy Moms trial will meet privately twice with a dietitian and participate in weekly support groups led by weight management specialists. They will be encouraged to follow a plan for eating low-fat food that emphasizes fruits, vegetables, whole grains, lean meat and low-fat dairy products and to consume only about 2,000 calories a day. If that sounds drastic, many experts say women require only 300 to 400 additional calories a day to support a pregnancy. Though some weight gain is because of normal changes in uterine and breast tissue, as well as the weight of the growing fetus, the placenta and excess fluid, a significant number of obese women do not gain weight during pregnancy and still seem to have healthy outcomes. “The classic teaching for years has been that if you’re pregnant you should gain weight, and there’s the whole concept of eating for two,” said Dr. Kimberly K. Vesco, an investigator at the Kaiser Permanente Center for Health Research in Portland, Ore., and a practicing obstetrician-gynecologist who will direct the Healthy Moms study. The truth, Dr. Vesco said, is that “you have to eat more, but you don’t have to eat a lot more.” Restrictions on weight in pregnancy are nothing new: throughout the 19th century and much of the 20th century, women were told to gain less than 20 pounds to reduce the risk of complications and Caesarean deliveries. The guidelines were relaxed in the 1970s and ’80s as Caesareans became safer and the risks to underweight babies were discovered. Rising rates of obesity are now leading experts to question that wisdom. Researchers are beginning to ask whether obesity in the mother may be unhealthy for the developing fetus — and, in turn, whether it could lead to obesity in children. Putting the brakes on weight gain during pregnancy may be an opportunity, in other words, to break the cycle of obesity.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But the implications of severely restricting weight are not entirely known. “It’s an experiment,” Dr. Rasmussen said of the $2.2 million trial, which is receiving federal financing. “We need experimental studies that can really show us that if you have women gain within a certain limited range, that will improve their outcomes.” Some data from observational studies suggest that obese women who limit weight gain may have healthier pregnancies and easier deliveries; physicians hope they will also avoid having extra weight to lose after the birth. Advertisement But there are concerns. The major one is that women who are not gaining weight will burn fat for energy, producing acidic compounds called ketones, which could be harmful to the fetus. Studies in diabetic women and in animals have found that babies born to women who had more ketones in their blood had lower I.Q. scores than other babies, said Dr. Naomi E. Stotland, an assistant professor of obstetrics, gynecology and reproductive sciences at the University of California, San Francisco. “What we don’t know is: Are there effects on the babies’ neurological development, or other adverse effects, from women not gaining weight?” Dr. Stotland said. “Some of these women may be losing fat mass, and the question is: Is losing fat mass during pregnancy, when you’re in a higher B.M.I. category, is that safe for the baby?” The Healthy Moms study will follow the women throughout their pregnancies to find out how much weight they gain, how big their babies are and how much weight they retain a year after the birth, looking at complications, the baby’s growth and feeding practices and whether the mother continues with a healthier lifestyle after the birth. Skeptics say they need to track additional measures, like the babies’ long-term cognitive development. Ms. Paten, of the Bronx, did well with her pregnancy, but she had high blood pressure and gestational diabetes throughout it and delivered by Caesarean section, despite her weight maintenance. Her baby, Brandon, who was born on Sept. 4, weighed 8 pounds 3.5 ounces. After Brandon was born, she tested free of diabetes, though more checks are needed.  And she has lost 22 pounds. A version of this article appears in print on December 15, 2009, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: New Goal for the Obese: Zero Gain in Pregnancy.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »