Advertisement OCT. 19, 2009
 To the Editor: Your article “The Collider, the Particle and a Theory About Fate” (Oct. 13) reminded me why physics was always my favorite science. In writing about the Higgs, which in accepted theory is responsible for imbuing matter with mass, Dennis Overbye details new theories postulating that the actual event of the first Higgs will essentially prevent us from being able to reproduce it, or that the almost recreated second Higgs somehow goes back just far enough to prevent itself — and cataclysm due to itself — from happening. This is possible (maybe) because “while it is a paradox to go back in time and kill your grandfather, physicists agree there is no paradox if you go back in time and save him from being hit by a bus.” Mr. Overbye continues: “In the case of the Higgs and the collider, it is as if something is going back in time to keep the universe from being hit by a bus. Although just why the Higgs would be a catastrophe is not clear. If we knew, presumably, we wouldn’t be trying to make one.” Somewhere Kurt Vonnegut and Douglas Adams are laughing. Gretchen Adamek East Hartford, Conn. To the Editor: Theism is often attacked for using an unwarranted “god of the gaps” strategy, in which unknown causal mechanisms in the natural order are attributed to God. It seems that science is appropriating that strategy. In a series of papers, two theoretical physicists have argued that the reality of the Higgs boson and its causal role in nature may elude scientists because it “might be so abhorrent to nature that its creation would ripple backward through time and stop the collider before it could make one.” The nature of this gap in science, which may very well be explained by the existence of the Higgs boson, will never be known. The Standard Model appears to be left with a “science of the gaps” explanation. C. Donald Smedley New Haven A version of this letter appears in print on October 20, 2009, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: Paradoxical Particle.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »