Advertisement By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D.AUG. 24, 2009
 Members of the healing professions who write (generally about themselves) are easy to distinguish from writers who make a living in the healing professions. From the first group comes an endless stream of memoir, self-conscious, well intentioned and predictable. From the second comes all kinds of other verbiage, good and bad, distinguished from the general run of other writing only in that the medical details are correct. And then there is Frank Huyler, a poet and emergency room doctor in New Mexico, who resists classification. His 1999 pitch-perfect book of short essays, “The Blood of Strangers,” was certainly cast in the autobiographical mold, but the voice was so unusual, the touch so light and sure, you could have walked along with him forever. His new novel, “Right of Thirst,” easily holds its own with the best contemporary fiction, and yet it hails from deep within medicine and seeks to illuminate the profession as surely as ordinary memoirs do. Charles Anderson is a middle-age cardiologist, the type who ties a perky little bow tie every morning and strides through the hospital trailing residents, enjoying their sycophantic attentions even as he recognizes — for he is more self-aware than the tie might suggest — the game of admiration and self-promotion for what it is. The premature death of his wife explodes his world. He cannot put the pieces back together and blindly casts around for somewhere else to be. Anywhere will do: with no particular interest in geopolitics, international health, suffering humanity or, really, even himself, Charles impulsively signs on with a relief agency to man a station for earthquake victims high in the mountains of an unnamed Himalayan country. Advertisement But the refugees (the local ones, that is) are slow to arrive, and Charles is left alone in the poorly supplied medical tent with his own thoughts — exactly the company he wanted to avoid. The other relief worker, a young German woman working on a Ph.D. in population genetics, ignores him. The local facilitator on loan from the army is an impassive cipher. Charles can focus only on the impending patients. Advertisement The three wait in the camp for the healing to begin — a  triad of doctor, nurse and administrator as potent as any other human triangle. It is almost “Waiting for Godot,” the medical version, but eventually the stalemate ends when a border skirmish upends their makeshift little world. A lesser writer would have piled on the medical color — health care in the developing world is full of attention-gripping pus and gore. Dr. Huyler indulges only a little: the reader winds up learning more about guns than scalpels. Yet the story never abandons the big medical themes: doctor and patient, illness and health are, after all, border zones in a state of permanent skirmish. There is also the timeless, ugly question of how and why a fistful of cash can transform what doctors like to call the natural history of disease. Dr. Huyler’s writing is quiet, precise, spellbinding from beginning to end. He is the one casting the spell, so I suppose he is entitled to break it himself, as he does with a thud after the story ends. In an afterword,  readers will find a request that they do their part for health care in inaccessible mountain ranges by donating a few dollars to a Bolivian charity on whose board of directors Dr. Huyler’s brother serves. You didn’t catch Sartre taking up a collection for the homeless. Poet though Dr. Huyler may be, there is clearly enough physician left in him for this kind of pragmatic hat-passing — one more interesting facet of this strikingly multilayered writer.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. That doctors and their work now routinely populate all forms of popular American culture is a historical aberration. Bert Hansen, a professor of medical history at Baruch College of the City University of New York, begins his illustrated account of the start of this phenomenon with the observation that until late in the 19th century, no one really wanted any more contact with doctors than was necessary —  certainly not in publications intended to entertain. When a doctor’s image did appear, he was generally depicted as a ponderous, bearded creature, with the depressed mien of an utterly useless man. A cartoon run in the satirical weekly Puck in 1884 lambastes a Philadelphia medical school as a “physician factory,” sucking up hapless local youth through a chute and disgorging an army of saw-wielding, frock-coated maniacs. Louis Pasteur changed all that. In 1885 the success of his rabies vaccine gripped the public’s attention, and the media  rushed to glorify and sanctify him and his suddenly attractive profession. Forget the inconvenient detail that Pasteur was actually not a medical doctor at all: cue the white coat, the pristine glassware stacked on the laboratory bench, the heroic demeanor and, of course, the grateful patients. As scientific triumphs accumulated, the hagiography of the doctor spread throughout the media, from print advertisements to radio spots, from comic books to adoring photo essays in Life magazine. While various slipups in the years since this golden era have made it pretty clear that Ronald Colman, Paul Muni and Edward G. Robinson no longer set professional standards, it is still nice to see them all again in Dr. Hansen’s book, superheroes fighting the good fight. A version of this review appears in print on , on Page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: When a Doctor Is More, and Less, Than a Healer.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »