Advertisement By JANE E. BRODYAUG. 24, 2009
 Dr. Robert C. Cantu, a neurosurgeon who is an expert on sports-related concussions, says every parent with a child who plays a contact or collision sport should have what is called the Graded Symptom Checklist. Issued by the National Athletic Trainers’ Association, the checklist should be used at the time of a head injury and at least four times afterward: at 2 to 3 hours, 24 hours, 48 hours and 72 hours after the injury,  or until all symptoms have cleared. The checklist can help  determine whether a concussion has occurred, its severity and whether a player is fit to return to the game. But the checklist is also important to use later, on the recommended schedule, because symptoms of a concussion are sometimes delayed. A player who sustained a direct or indirect blow to the brain may feel all right  initially, then develop symptoms hours or days later. Advertisement Athletic trainers, doctors or other medical personnel who suspect that an athlete has suffered a concussion can use the checklist to evaluate a player  both at rest and during physical exertion. Coaches and parents can be trained to use it as well. Professional evaluators, parents and players must understand that a return of symptoms when a brain-injured athlete is physically or cognitively stressed is a clear sign that the brain has not  healed. Advertisement “Any one of these symptoms occurring in the aftermath of a head trauma would disqualify an athlete from participating in the sport,” emphasized Dr. Cantu, co-director of the Center for the Study of Traumatic Encephalopathy at Boston University School of Medicine. “No athlete should be engaged in physical exertion if any symptom is present.”  JANE E. BRODY  A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D7 of the New York edition with the headline: Symptom List Helps To Gauge Head Injuries.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »