Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
 HENRY FOUNTAIN
 
MARCH 4, 2008
 To the long list of the unintended effects of environmental contaminants, add one — eating polluted worms affects the songs of male starlings. What’s more, the females seem to like it. Researchers from Cardiff University in Wales report in the open-access online journal PLoS One that male starlings that consume estrogen and similar compounds, chemicals normally found in sewage, showed brain and behavioral changes related to singing. Shai Markman, now at the University of Haifa in Israel; Katherine L. Buchanan, now of Deakin University in Australia; and colleagues studied wild starlings foraging at sewage treatment works in southwestern Britain. The birds eat small worms found in huge quantities along filter beds. The worms accumulate natural estrogen excreted in human waste and estrogenlike compounds from plastics manufacturing. The chemicals are known to disrupt endocrine function, with  anatomical and behavioral effects. Advertisement Dr. Buchanan said he was not certain of the effects the chemicals might have on the  birds’ songs. With some contaminants toxic to neural development, a  result might be less complex songs. “But if you have estrogenic chemicals, that could affect song complexity in the opposite direction,” she said. The researchers gave male wild starlings in the lab the same chemicals in doses similar to those in the wild and found that the brain area  responsible for song complexity became overdeveloped and that the songs were more complex than in birds that did not have the compounds. The contaminants also affected immune systems, weakening fitness. Advertisement A male’s song is one trait that helps to attract mates. The researchers found that females chose the males with more complex songs even though the contaminants had made them less fit. “Females are choosing to mate with males who are in poorer physical condition,” Dr. Buchanan said, with potential effects on the number and survivability of offspring. So the simple act of eating tainted worms may be having an overall effect on starling populations, she added. A version of this article appears in print on , on Page F3 of the New York edition with the headline: Polluted Worms Help Starling’s Song, But Not Mating Fitness.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »