Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

DEC. 20, 2011
 Two nutrient-dense vegetables combine forces in this delicious filling. Mushrooms are an excellent source of vitamins and many minerals, particularly selenium, copper, potassium, phosphorous, zinc, and manganese – and they contain a powerful antioxidant called L-ergothioneine. They’re used medicinally throughout Asia for their immunity-boosting properties. They also contain more protein than most other vegetables, and their meaty texture makes them a perfect choice for vegetarians. Cabbage possesses phytochemicals like sulforaphane, which protects the body against cancer-causing free radicals, and indoles, which help metabolize estrogens. It’s also an excellent source of vitamins K and C, and a very good source of  dietary fiber, vitamin B6, folate, manganese and omega-3 fatty acids. 1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil 1 pound mushrooms, cut in thick slices 1 bunch scallions, white and light green parts, finely chopped 2 garlic cloves, minced Salt and freshly ground pepper to taste 1 small head cabbage 1/4 cup chopped cilantro 1/4 to 1/2 cup Chipotle Ranchera Salsa 8 corn tortillas Queso fresco to taste 1. Heat a large, heavy skillet over medium-high heat and add the olive oil. When the oil is hot, add the mushrooms and sear, stirring often or tossing in the pan, until they are lightly colored and beginning to sweat, 3 to 5 minutes. Add the scallions and cook, stirring, for about 1 minute, until tender. Add the garlic and cook, stirring, until fragrant, 30 seconds to a minute. Advertisement 2. Season the mushrooms with salt and pepper and stir in the cabbage. Cook, stirring often, until the cabbage is tender, about 5 minutes. Add salt and pepper to taste and stir in the cilantro and 1/4 to 1/2 cup of the salsa (to taste).  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 3. Heat the tortillas. Top with the mushroom/cabbage mixture, sprinkle with cheese if desired, and serve. Advertisement Yield: 4 servings. Advance preparation: The mushroom filling will keep for about 3 days in the refrigerator. Nutritional information per serving (4 servings): 243 calories; 1 gram saturated fat; 1 gram polyunsaturated fat; 3 grams monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 42 grams carbohydrates; 11 grams dietary fiber; 110 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 8 grams protein    Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »