Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Couscous With Tomatoes, Cauliflower, Red Peppers and Olives By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, 2 hours' simmer healthy Pesto-Stuffed Portobello Burgers By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus marinating  Greek Stewed Green Beans and Yellow Squash With Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman About 55 minutes  Chicken Breasts With Feta and Figs By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus 30 to 60 minutes' marinating  Lemon Risotto with Summer Squash By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes  Zucchini Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours  Garlic Shrimp With Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Curried Cauliflower Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Tacos With Black Beans and Chard By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours healthy Soft Tacos With Mushrooms and Cabbage By Martha Rose Shulman About 15 minutes healthy Cauliflower, Brussels Sprouts and Red Beans With Lemon and Mustard By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Red Quinoa, Cauliflower and Fava Bean Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Couscous With Tomatoes, Cauliflower, Red Peppers and Olives By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, 2 hours' simmer healthy Pesto-Stuffed Portobello Burgers By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus marinating  Greek Stewed Green Beans and Yellow Squash With Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman About 55 minutes  Chicken Breasts With Feta and Figs By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus 30 to 60 minutes' marinating  Lemon Risotto with Summer Squash By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes  Zucchini Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours  Garlic Shrimp With Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Curried Cauliflower Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Tacos With Black Beans and Chard By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours healthy Soft Tacos With Mushrooms and Cabbage By Martha Rose Shulman About 15 minutes healthy Cauliflower, Brussels Sprouts and Red Beans With Lemon and Mustard By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Red Quinoa, Cauliflower and Fava Bean Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Couscous With Tomatoes, Cauliflower, Red Peppers and Olives By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, 2 hours' simmer healthy Pesto-Stuffed Portobello Burgers By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus marinating 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   Vegetables bathed in vinegar are typical condiments in Mexico, but you can bring them to the center of the plate as a filling for a taco. If you want spice, add the chipotle, or garnish with some salsa. If salt is an issue, use ranchero rather than cotija cheese. 
Featured in: 
Recipes For Health: Tacos For The Holidays. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Gluten Free,
                    High Fiber,
                    Low Cholesterol,
                    Mexican,
                    Cauliflower,
                    Tortilla
 By Mark Bittman 45 minutes By David Tanis 30 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, less if using microwave to heat tortillas By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes By Pierre Franey 20 minutes By Melissa Clark 45 minutes By Melissa Clark 1 hour 20 minutes By Melissa Clark 1 hour 30 minutes, plus cooling and chilling Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Julia Moskin
         Cooking Guide 
          By Florence Fabricant
         Cooking Guide 
          By Robert Simonson
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.