Advertisement SEPT. 3, 2012
 In the Royal Society’s early years, scientists wrote of research both bizarre and elegant, made seemingly uncanny predictions, and sought to reconcile their findings with prevailing beliefs about God. A few samples from the archives: EXPERIMENTS, CRUEL AND UNUSUAL   The other experiment (which I shall hardly, I confess, make again, because it was cruel) was with a dog, which, by means of a pair of bellows, wherewith I filled his lungs, and suffered them to empty again, I was able to preserve alive as long as I could desire, after I had wholly opened the thorax, and cut off all the ribs, and opened the belly.     — Letter from Robert Hooke to Robert Boyle (1664)  Experiments: Of destroying Mites by several Fumes: of the equivocal Generation of Insects: of feeding a Carp in the Air: of making Insects with Cheese, and Sack: of killing Water-Newts, Toads, and Sloworms with several Salts: of killing Frogs by touching their skin, with Vinegar, Pitch, or Mercury: of a Spiders not being Inchanted by a Circle of Unicorns-horn, or Irish Earth, laid round about it.   — Thomas Sprat, “The History of the Royal Society” (1667) FORETELLING THE FUTURE  In the year 1456 ... a Comet was seen passing Retrograde between the Earth and the sun. ... Hence I dare venture to foretell, that it will return again in the year 1758.     — Edmond Halley, “A Synopsis of  the Astronomy of Comets” (1705);  the prediction was correct.  GUIDING HANDS  This most beautiful system [The Universe] could only proceed from the dominion of an intelligent and powerful Being. — Isaac Newton  UNDISCOVERED SHORES  The footsteps of Nature are to be trac’d, not only in her ordinary course, but when she seems to be put to her shifts, to make many doublings and turnings, and to use some kind of art in endeavouring to avoid our discovery.  — Robert Hooke, “Micrographia” (1665)  To myself I seem to have been only like a boy playing on the seashore, and diverting myself in now and then finding a smoother pebble or a prettier shell than ordinary, whilst the great ocean of truth lay all undiscovered before me.   — Newton; said to have been written in 1727, the final year of his life A version of this quote appears in print on September 4, 2012, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: In Pursuit of Truth, Corporeal and Cosmic.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »