Advertisement JULY 30, 2012
 To the Editor: “The Ideal and the Real of Breast-Feeding” (Personal Health, July 24) was a refreshing change from the usual media coverage on the topic. Comparing not breast-feeding to smoking is needlessly hurtful to those women who may not want to or be able to breast-feed. It is also simply not supported by any scientific comparison of the respective risks. Cars and obesity are also both far greater risks to children than not breast-feeding. Breast-feeding is a wonderful option for many new mothers. We should, however, allow individuals to make their choices without inflated health claims that do little to promote real public health. Rebecca Goldin Fairfax, Va. ♦ To the Editor: I am a surgeon and work (much more than) full time and returned to work less than six weeks after the birth of my son. He was exclusively breast-fed until a year and continues to nurse at 17 months. This column portrays breast-feeding and working as an either-or choice. While it is certainly difficult and requires some planning, it is indeed possible to work and breast-feed. The health and emotional benefits of breast-feeding are many. Rather than discourage women, we should encourage women and employers to work to make this choice easier. Advertisement Colleen McCormick, M.D. Portland, Ore. ♦ To the Editor: The companies that manufacture and market baby formula are a formidable force: Samples abound as soon as you walk through an OB’s door, and free formula is given to pregnant women enrolled in nutrition-boosting programs. Rates of breast-feeding are low in the United States partly as a result of a long-standing campaign by these companies to make formula seem the better and more convenient option. The rates are also low because breast-feeding requires support, including postpartum care, paid maternity leave, a supportive partner or family, a workplace that allows for pumping, and a culture that values the time commitment and benefits of nursing. Choosing to use formula because it proves impossible to breast-feed is a natural response to the challenges of breast-feeding without support. Changing the health guidelines to less than six months to alleviate guilt is not going to help. Advertisement Hélène Lesterlin Saugerties, N.Y. Science Times welcomes letters from readers. Those submitted for publication must include the writer’s name, address and telephone number. E-mail should be sent to scitimes@nytimes.com. Send letters to Science Editor, The New York Times, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018. A version of this letter appears in print on July 31, 2012, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: Options In Breast-Feeding.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »