Advertisement By KENNETH CHANGAUG. 13, 2012
 SAN FRANCISCO — Frank Oppenheimer, the younger brother of J. Robert Oppenheimer, known as the father of the atomic bomb, reinvented the science museum more than four decades ago. Instead of eye-catching objects like the Hope Diamond at the Smithsonian or the steam engine at the Franklin Institute, exhibits at the Exploratorium here were more like handmade toys. Visitors swung pendulums and watched the chaotic swings, played with prisms to split light and learned about the motion of gas molecules through bouncing balls. It was, as Frank Oppenheimer described it, “a playful place.” The Exploratorium inspired other museums to adopt a hands-on, learning-by-doing ethos. Dr. Oppenheimer fostered replication by freely giving away information, and the museum later went into the business of building exhibits for other science museums. Advertisement Now, 100 years after the birth of Frank Oppenheimer, the Exploratorium is on the verge of a rebirth. In January it will close its current site on the northern edge of San Francisco. In the spring, it will open a new $220 million facility on Piers 15 and 17 along the Embarcadero, closer to the throngs of tourists at Union Square and Fisherman’s Wharf. Advertisement Exhibit space will triple, to 330,000 square feet, and the focus will expand: New exhibits will delve into the environment, microbiology and social psychology. Prototypes have already been tested on the floor of the current Exploratorium. In one social psychology exhibit, some items of modest value, like a calculator were put out at the beginning of the day. Visitors were told they could take an item, provided they replace it with something else. “The goal of this is to have a ‘tragedy of the commons’ situation,” said Hugh McDonald, one of the curators of a new gallery, which will focus on human behavior. “This table is a commons. It’s up to you to maintain it with the quality of interesting stuff.” If people do not, he said, participants learn that “it turns to trash.” One day, the value of the exchanged items remained steady throughout the day. Another day, all that was left by day’s end were gum wrappers and scraps of paper. “I was just really disappointed in humanity,” said Mary Elizabeth Yarbrough, the exhibit builder. In another exhibit under development, visitors will race toy cars around a track, except all of the cars will share a finite amount of fuel. If everyone drives quickly, the fuel will be spent and no one will get to the finish line. Thus, for anyone to win, the competitors need to balance their individual desire to win with the need to cooperate with others. “A lot of these exhibits depend on a moment of reflection, a moment of contemplation, a moment of discussion with someone else,” Dr. McDonald said. Advertisement The new location, literally on top of San Francisco Bay, is being outfitted with scientific instruments like an oceanographic ship, measuring the height and direction of tides, pollutants in the air and the ever-changing weather. “We want to ground people in the local,” said Mary Miller, director of the museum’s partnership with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. “We know from a lot of studies done about how people react to global warming and big issues that sometimes it overwhelms them. We thought, instead of going from the global to the local, we’ll start very local.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Museum designers are also looking to display data in more artistic ways than reams of numbers. For example, birdlike wings will adorn the walkway between the piers, rising and falling as the winds bellow and ebb. Officials insist that the new Exploratorium is an extension, not a change, of the original vision of Dr. Oppenheimer, who died in 1985. “This is evolutionary, not revolutionary,” said Robert Semper, the executive associate director. The roots of the Exploratorium date to the cold war, when, like his older brother, Frank Oppenheimer was purged from academia. After admitting he had been a member of the Communist Party in the 1930s, he lost his professorship at the University of Minnesota. For a decade, he was out of science, working as a rancher in Colorado. Dr. Oppenheimer eventually regained a teaching job, at a Colorado high school, and later at the University of Colorado. Through these years, he was rethinking the teaching of physics, and developed a “library of exhibits” that students would move through week by week. That led him to conceive a new science museum. He found an empty exhibit hall at the stately Palace of Fine Arts in San Francisco, built in 1915 for a World’s Fair celebrating the opening of the Panama Canal. He leased it from the city for $1 a year. In August 1969, with no fanfare, the doors to the Exploratorium opened, and curious people started wandering in. “The Exploratorium is not designed to glorify anything,” Dr. Oppenheimer wrote in 1972. “We have not built exhibits whose primary message is, ‘Wasn’t somebody else clever?’ or ‘Hasn’t someone done a great service to mankind and the American way of life?’ Nor do we tell people what they are supposed to get out of a particular exhibit, or make them feel silly or stupid because they enjoyed it in a way that was perhaps not intended.” Advertisement Dennis M. Bartels, the current executive director, said the extra space and more central location will allow for more activities geared at adults, like discussions of science in society — not current controversies like stem cells, but those yet to come, like drugs to improve memory and cognition. He expects the new location will draw greater crowds than the Exploratorium’s current 560,000 visitors a year. Dr. Bartels, however, said that his museum would never host pop culture blockbusters like the Harry Potter exhibit that has visited other science museums. “That’s not the pedagogy we’ve lived and breathed and survived on,” he said. The Exploratorium’s mission is “to push people beyond the surface stuff,” he said. A version of this article appears in print on August 14, 2012, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: San Francisco Exploratorium to a Show New Face in a New Place.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »