Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Grilled Albacore With Yogurt-Dill Sauce on a Bed of Arugula By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours 15 minutes Trending Mexican Rice By Kim Severson 40 minutes Trending Pappardelle With Pancetta and Peas By David Tanis 30 minutes Trending Thin-and-Crisp Chocolate-Chip Cookies By Amanda Hesser 30 minutes Trending Zucchini Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours Trending Chicken in Mustard Sauce By Jacques Pépin 35 minutes Trending Salmon en Papillote (Salmon in Parchment) By Florence Fabricant 20 minutes  Turkish Fruit Butter By Mark Bittman 2 hours 30 minutes healthy Turkish Yogurt and Spinach Dip By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Turkish Bean and Herb Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours 30 minutes healthy Turkish Chicken and Okra Casserole By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours 30 minutes healthy Mâche Salad With Yogurt Dressing By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Grilled Albacore With Yogurt-Dill Sauce on a Bed of Arugula By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours 15 minutes Trending Mexican Rice By Kim Severson 40 minutes Trending Pappardelle With Pancetta and Peas By David Tanis 30 minutes Trending Thin-and-Crisp Chocolate-Chip Cookies By Amanda Hesser 30 minutes Trending Zucchini Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours Trending Chicken in Mustard Sauce By Jacques Pépin 35 minutes Trending Salmon en Papillote (Salmon in Parchment) By Florence Fabricant 20 minutes  Turkish Fruit Butter By Mark Bittman 2 hours 30 minutes healthy Turkish Yogurt and Spinach Dip By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Turkish Bean and Herb Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours 30 minutes healthy Turkish Chicken and Okra Casserole By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours 30 minutes healthy Mâche Salad With Yogurt Dressing By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes healthy Grilled Albacore With Yogurt-Dill Sauce on a Bed of Arugula By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours 15 minutes Trending Mexican Rice By Kim Severson 40 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   This is much like the familiar Middle Eastern chickpea purée, but instead of tahini, the chickpeas are blended with yogurt. It’s lighter than the version made with tahini, and it’s nice either warm or at room temperature. Skinning the chickpeas makes a more delicate, smoother purée, and it doesn’t take as long as you’d think, but I leave the step as an optional one.  
Featured in: 
Yogurt: Much More Than A ‘Health Food’. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Turkish,
                    Dried Chickpea,
                    Garlic,
                    Greek Style Yogurt
 By Mark Bittman 2 hours 30 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours 30 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours 30 minutes By Florence Fabricant 15 minutes By Glenn Collins About 45 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes (including 30 minutes baking and 10 to 15 minutes resting after baking) By Sam Sifton 30 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Julia Moskin
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Tejal Rao
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.