Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. easy Bulgur By Craig Claiborne 30 minutes  Greek Stewed Green Beans and Yellow Squash With Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman About 55 minutes  Whole Wheat Pappardelle With Fava Purée By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours  Apple and Swiss Chard Pie By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus resting  Brown Rice Bowls With Stewed Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes  Chicken Breasts With Feta and Figs By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus 30 to 60 minutes' marinating easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking  Chermoula Eggplant With Bulgur and Yogurt By Tara Parker-Pope About 1 hour 30 minutes healthy Tomatoes Stuffed With Bulgur and Herbs By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Bulgur and Kale Casserole By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 45 minutes  Bulgur, Spinach and Tomato Casserole By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 45 minutes healthy Winter Tomato Soup With Bulgur By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour easy Bulgur By Craig Claiborne 30 minutes  Greek Stewed Green Beans and Yellow Squash With Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman About 55 minutes  Whole Wheat Pappardelle With Fava Purée By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours  Apple and Swiss Chard Pie By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus resting  Brown Rice Bowls With Stewed Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes  Chicken Breasts With Feta and Figs By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus 30 to 60 minutes' marinating easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking  Chermoula Eggplant With Bulgur and Yogurt By Tara Parker-Pope About 1 hour 30 minutes healthy Tomatoes Stuffed With Bulgur and Herbs By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Bulgur and Kale Casserole By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 45 minutes  Bulgur, Spinach and Tomato Casserole By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 45 minutes healthy Winter Tomato Soup With Bulgur By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour easy Bulgur By Craig Claiborne 30 minutes  Greek Stewed Green Beans and Yellow Squash With Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman About 55 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   This is a vegetarian moussaka, with bulgur standing in for meat. The tangy Balkan-style yogurt and egg topping has a wonderful pillowy texture, much lighter than béchamel. I like to begin this dish by making the tomato sauce, which I often prepare a day ahead.   
Featured in: 
Yogurt: Much More Than A ‘Health Food’. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Mediterranean,
                    Coarse Bulgur,
                    Eggplant,
                    Tomato
 By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes (including 30 minutes baking and 10 to 15 minutes resting after baking) By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 20 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 1/2 hours, including 45 minutes baking By Marian Burros 15 minutes By Mark Bittman 20 minutes By Jacques Pepin 30 minutes By Rosie Schaap 3 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Julia Moskin
         Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.