Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Potato and Chard Stalk Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes  Spring Ramen Bowl With Snap Peas and Asparagus By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours  Apple and Swiss Chard Pie By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus resting healthy Provençal Greens Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes  Braised Halibut With Asparagus, Baby Potatoes and Saffron By Martha Rose Shulman 35 minutes  Brown Rice Bowls With Stewed Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes  Lemon Risotto with Summer Squash By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes  Chicken Thighs Stuffed With Chard By Mark Bittman 40 minutes healthy Swiss Chard and Rice Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Green Tomato and Swiss Chard Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Shell Beans and Potato Ragout With Swiss Chard By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour  Potato and Swiss Chard Gratin By Elaine Louie 1 hour 45 minutes healthy Potato and Chard Stalk Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes  Spring Ramen Bowl With Snap Peas and Asparagus By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours  Apple and Swiss Chard Pie By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus resting healthy Provençal Greens Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes  Braised Halibut With Asparagus, Baby Potatoes and Saffron By Martha Rose Shulman 35 minutes  Brown Rice Bowls With Stewed Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes  Lemon Risotto with Summer Squash By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes  Chicken Thighs Stuffed With Chard By Mark Bittman 40 minutes healthy Swiss Chard and Rice Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Green Tomato and Swiss Chard Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Shell Beans and Potato Ragout With Swiss Chard By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour  Potato and Swiss Chard Gratin By Elaine Louie 1 hour 45 minutes healthy Potato and Chard Stalk Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes  Spring Ramen Bowl With Snap Peas and Asparagus By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   This is based on a comforting Majorcan dish that is traditionally made with hake, a fish that isn’t as easy to find here as halibut or Arctic char, both of which I’ve used for the dish. Pacific halibut is the type that gets the Environmental Defense Fund’s highest rating. Make sure to cover this tightly so the fish doesn’t dry out. An hour seems like a long time to cook fish, but the fish is well insulated and won’t dry out. 
Featured in: 
Flavorful And Sustainable Fish. 
   
Healthy,
                    Dairy Free,
                    Gluten Free,
                    High Fiber,
                    Nut Free,
                    Spanish,
                    Gold Potato,
                    Halibut,
                    Swiss Chard
 By Melissa Clark 2 1/2 hours By Melissa Clark 1 hour By Melissa Clark 2 1/2 hours By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours By Sam Sifton 30 minutes By Mark Bittman 1 hour By Julia Moskin 45 minutes, plus 12 hours' refrigeration By Florence Fabricant 20 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Julia Moskin
         Cooking Guide 
          By Robert Simonson
         Cooking Guide 
          By David Tanis
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.