Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Cod Ceviche By Martha Rose Shulman About 8 hours Trending Mexican Rice By Kim Severson 40 minutes Trending Zucchini Pancakes By Elaine Louie 30 minutes Trending Bucatini With Red Clam Sauce By Julia Moskin About 30 minutes Trending Slow-Baked Beans With Kale By Martha Rose Shulman 3 hours 45 minutes Trending Asparagus With Brown Butter By Jacques Pepin 30 minutes Trending Marcella Hazan’s Bolognese Sauce By The New York Times At least 4 hours  Scallop-and-Halibut Ceviche Salad By Jonathan Reynolds 1 1/2 hours healthy Steamed Cod With Favas and Aioli By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy Grilled Fish With Salsa Verde By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Wok-Seared Cod With Mushrooms and Peas By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Cod Fillets With Cilantro Yogurt Sauce By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes healthy Cod Ceviche By Martha Rose Shulman About 8 hours Trending Mexican Rice By Kim Severson 40 minutes Trending Zucchini Pancakes By Elaine Louie 30 minutes Trending Bucatini With Red Clam Sauce By Julia Moskin About 30 minutes Trending Slow-Baked Beans With Kale By Martha Rose Shulman 3 hours 45 minutes Trending Asparagus With Brown Butter By Jacques Pepin 30 minutes Trending Marcella Hazan’s Bolognese Sauce By The New York Times At least 4 hours  Scallop-and-Halibut Ceviche Salad By Jonathan Reynolds 1 1/2 hours healthy Steamed Cod With Favas and Aioli By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy Grilled Fish With Salsa Verde By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Wok-Seared Cod With Mushrooms and Peas By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Cod Fillets With Cilantro Yogurt Sauce By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes healthy Cod Ceviche By Martha Rose Shulman About 8 hours Trending Mexican Rice By Kim Severson 40 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   I often use cod for ceviche, one of my favorite ways to enjoy seafood. The cod that gets the Environmental Defense Fund’s highest rating is Pacific cod. 
Featured in: 
Flavorful And Sustainable Fish. 
   
Healthy,
                    Dairy Free,
                    Gluten Free,
                    Nut Free,
                    Low Sodium,
                    Latin American,
                    Cod,
                    Lime Juice,
                    Serrano Chili
 By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus several hours of chilling By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes By Sam Sifton 2 hours 30 minutes By Julia Moskin 25 minutes By Sam Sifton 30 minutes By Melissa Clark 1 hour, plus 1 1/2 hours' rising Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.