Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
 NICHOLAS BAKALAR
 
JULY 5, 2012
 Increasing sea temperatures caused by global warming are harming coral reefs, but a new study suggests this is not the first time it has happened. Researchers took core samples from reefs off the coast of Panama, estimating their age at different levels using radiocarbon dating and other methods. They found that the reefs stopped growing about 4,000 years ago and did not recover for 2,500 years. According to the researchers, whose work was published online on Thursday in the journal Science, the beginning of that 2,500-year period coincided with the start of a series of extremely strong El Niño effects, elevations of water temperature every three to seven years that cause long-term changes in weather. Then, about 3,800 to 3,200 years ago, there was a cycle of La Niña events — periods of unusually cold ocean temperatures — which could also have affected coral reef health. Similar growth hiatuses have been recorded at other locations, generally attributed to local conditions. But these researchers conclude that the phenomenon was more likely a result of Pacific-wide climatic changes disrupting many reefs at the same time. What does this mean for today’s reefs? “Even conservative models of climate change predict a return to extreme weather conditions,” said the lead author, Richard B. Aronson, a professor of biology at the Florida Institute of Technology. “This means that reefs could shut down. The hopeful part is that these reefs did prove to be resilient 1,500 years ago. Reefs today could recover, but only if we get a handle on the greenhouse gases causing climate change.” Local conditions would have to improve, too, Dr. Aronson added. “Coral mining is also a threat, ship grounding, overfishing. You have to address both the local and the global issues.” A version of this article appears in print on July 10, 2012, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Coral Shows Resilience In Face of Hostile Climate.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »