Advertisement By HENRY FOUNTAINJUNE 11, 2012
 Ray Bradbury, who died last week at 91, was a masterly writer of science fiction and fantasy, and an extremely prolific one. He wrote at least a thousand words a day and implored others to do the same. Only slightly less well known is that he was also a prolific signer of autographs. And not just in his books, as I learned one evening two decades ago. I was working in Paris, and one day a colleague asked if I’d like to go to dinner with a longtime friend of his: Ray Bradbury, who happened to be in France on a consulting arrangement related to the new Disney theme park east of Paris. John told me where and when to show up, and said I should bring a friend. And oh, he added, bring your Bradbury books: Ray loves to sign them, in fact carries around some felt-tip markers just for that purpose. Advertisement I’m not the type to ask for autographs, and anyway my two Bradbury books — “Fahrenheit 451” and “The Martian Chronicles” — were packed away somewhere. So I didn’t take any books along. Neither did my friend, or John’s. Advertisement That, it turned out, was no obstacle for Mr. Bradbury. The five of us met at a bistro on the Left Bank, not far from Napoleon’s tomb. As Parisian bistros go, it was no better or worse than most, but a bit dressier, with white linen on the small square tables. The evening began with red wine. We ordered food, and more wine. Pretty soon the food was gone, but the wine kept coming. I know we talked about writing. Mr. Bradbury was so passionate about the subject, we couldn’t have not talked about it. Beyond that I don’t remember much, except that he was funny, effusive and genuinely friendly. We all laughed a lot at his stories. Then, while regaling us with one of those tales — it might have involved some escapade with Walt Disney himself — he knocked over his wine glass. We all stopped talking and stared at the purple stain seeping across the tablecloth. It was an irregular shape; to me it resembled an amoeba. But not to Ray Bradbury. “My, that looks like a Martian!” he shouted. Then he opened his sport coat, revealing five felt-tips of different colors lined up neatly in the inside pocket.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. He grabbed the black one and started doodling on the tablecloth. I remember thinking that while the restaurant probably dealt with wine stains all the time, marker ink was another matter. But I wasn’t about to tell Ray Bradbury he shouldn’t draw on a tablecloth. At first I couldn’t quite make out the drawing, but then I realized he was turning the stain into a face. An alien face, it appeared — he had added a couple of antennas. Advertisement The waiter, seeing the commotion, came over to clean up. When he started to remove the soiled tablecloth, Mr. Bradbury stopped him, mumbling something about having to autograph it first. He signed it and added the date for good measure. Then he made a show of presenting it to the waiter. I’m pretty sure the guy didn’t know who Ray Bradbury was. But he accepted the gift of the restaurant’s own tablecloth as if it were a canvas from Picasso himself, and scurried off to give it to the manager. At some point John must have said something to the manager, because the man came by before we left to thank Mr. Bradbury for the artwork. And a month or so later, when I stopped into the bistro, there was the tablecloth — prominently framed on a wall. I went back again seven or eight years ago, and as happens all the time in Paris, the restaurant had changed hands and was completely remodeled. The tablecloth was nowhere in sight. I just hope that it was saved from the remodeler’s sledgehammer, and that somewhere, somehow, there’s a Ray Bradbury original still hanging on the wall. A version of this article appears in print on June 12, 2012, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: A Martian Joined Ray Bradbury and Me for Dinner in Paris.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »