Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
SINDYA N. BHANOO

SEPT. 5, 2011
 Children have memories, but the ability to remember the origin of memories develops slowly. A new study reports that this ability matures during adolescence and fully develops only in adulthood. Researchers from Saarland University in Germany report these findings in the journal Child Development. The researchers presented children, adolescents and young adults with a two-part memory test. First, the participants were shown images on a computer screen and asked to note whether pictures were repeated by pressing buttons marked “new” and “old.” They were then given a second, similar test, which included certain pictures from the first that they were instructed to mark. Advertisement Although memory performance generally improved with age, the ability to trace the source of a memory — evaluated by the second test — was particularly weak in children. Adolescents and adults performed equally well, but with a significant difference. Advertisement The participants wore electroencephalogram caps that measured their neural activity. Only adults showed a sophisticated pattern of activity when they were retrieving source memory information, said the study’s lead author, Volker Sprondel, a psychologist at Saarland. Using behavioral measures alone, the researchers would not have detected the difference between adults and adolescents, Mr. Sprondel said. The findings suggest, he added, that when children and adolescents are asked to testify, the reliability of their source memory — for example, recalling the first time a certain person was encountered, and where — should be carefully questioned. A version of this article appears in print on September 6, 2011, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Memory Process Takes Years to Fully Develop.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »