Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Corn and Vegetable Gratin With Cumin By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour Trending Pan-Seared Salmon With Celery, Olives and Capers By Yotam Ottolenghi 45 minutes Trending Sautéed Salmon With Brown Butter Cucumbers By Melissa Clark 20 minutes Trending Blueberry, Almond and Lemon Cake By Yotam Ottolenghi 1 1/2 hours, plus cooling Trending The Greenest Green Salad By Samin Nosrat 20 minutes Trending Best Lemon Bars By Julia Moskin 1 hour, plus cooling Trending Lemon-Spice Visiting Cake By Dorie Greenspan 1 hour 25 minutes healthy Lettuce and Green Garlic Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Creamy Leek Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 50 minutes healthy Tomato, Cucumber and Corn Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Wild Rice and Arborio Risotto With Corn and Red Pepper By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours healthy Dill Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 20 minutes healthy Corn and Vegetable Gratin With Cumin By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour Trending Pan-Seared Salmon With Celery, Olives and Capers By Yotam Ottolenghi 45 minutes Trending Sautéed Salmon With Brown Butter Cucumbers By Melissa Clark 20 minutes Trending Blueberry, Almond and Lemon Cake By Yotam Ottolenghi 1 1/2 hours, plus cooling Trending The Greenest Green Salad By Samin Nosrat 20 minutes Trending Best Lemon Bars By Julia Moskin 1 hour, plus cooling Trending Lemon-Spice Visiting Cake By Dorie Greenspan 1 hour 25 minutes healthy Lettuce and Green Garlic Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Creamy Leek Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 50 minutes healthy Tomato, Cucumber and Corn Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Wild Rice and Arborio Risotto With Corn and Red Pepper By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours healthy Dill Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 20 minutes healthy Corn and Vegetable Gratin With Cumin By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour Trending Pan-Seared Salmon With Celery, Olives and Capers By Yotam Ottolenghi 45 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   This is another creamy corn dish that has no cream in it – in fact, it has no dairy at all. I simmer the corn cobs to make the stock. When the corn is sweet, so is the soup, and I love the contrast of the sweet, creamy potage against the spicy roasted peppers. 
Featured in: 
Sweet, Creamy Corn. 
   

Learn: How to Make Soup
 
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Vegan,
                    Dairy Free,
                    Gluten Free,
                    Southwestern,
                    Chili Pepper,
                    Corn
 By Melissa Clark 45 minutes By Tara Parker-Pope About 2 hours By Florence Fabricant 1 hour By Jennifer Steinhauer 1 hour By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 45 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour Cooking Guide 
          By Samin Nosrat
         Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Samin Nosrat
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.