Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu.  Tomato Bisque With Fresh Goat Cheese By Suzanne Lenzer 45 minutes  Greens and Chayote Enchiladas With Salsa Verde By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours healthy Provençal Greens Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes  Lemon Risotto with Summer Squash By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Braised Halibut With Asparagus, Baby Potatoes and Saffron By Martha Rose Shulman 35 minutes  Zucchini Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours  Baked Stuffed Tomatoes With Goat Cheese Fondue By Melissa Clark 20 minutes healthy Marinated Goat Cheese By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes, plus several hours' steeping  Quiche With Herbs and Goat Cheese By David Tanis About 1 hour, with pre-made dough healthy Baked Lentils With Goat Cheese By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour  Baked Figs and Goat Cheese By David Tanis 25 minutes   Tomato Bisque With Fresh Goat Cheese By Suzanne Lenzer 45 minutes  Greens and Chayote Enchiladas With Salsa Verde By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours healthy Provençal Greens Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes  Lemon Risotto with Summer Squash By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Braised Halibut With Asparagus, Baby Potatoes and Saffron By Martha Rose Shulman 35 minutes  Zucchini Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours  Baked Stuffed Tomatoes With Goat Cheese Fondue By Melissa Clark 20 minutes healthy Marinated Goat Cheese By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes, plus several hours' steeping  Quiche With Herbs and Goat Cheese By David Tanis About 1 hour, with pre-made dough healthy Baked Lentils With Goat Cheese By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour  Baked Figs and Goat Cheese By David Tanis 25 minutes   Tomato Bisque With Fresh Goat Cheese By Suzanne Lenzer 45 minutes  Greens and Chayote Enchiladas With Salsa Verde By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   The tomato tarts and quiches I’ve been eating in Provence are delightful. Spreading mustard on the crust before you top it with tomatoes is a new idea that makes perfect sense to me, as mustard is such a perfect condiment for tomatoes. 
Featured in: 
Cooking With Summer Tomatoes. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Nut Free,
                    French,
                    Goat Cheese,
                    Olive Oil,
                    Tomato
 By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes By Celia Barbour 1 hour By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours By David Tanis 2 hours, plus at least 1 hour for chilling By Sam Sifton 2 hours 30 minutes By Melissa Clark 1 hour 20 minutes By Melissa Clark About 40 minutes By Melissa Clark About 1 hour 15 minutes, plus time to prepare dough Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Sam Sifton
         Cooking Guide 
          By Julia Moskin
         Cooking Guide 
          By Sam Sifton
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.