Advertisement By NICHOLAS BAKALAROCT. 10, 2011
 Sigmund Freud visited the United States only once, in 1909, to give a series of lectures. The New York Times found nothing about the visit worth mentioning except his departure. “Prof. Sigmund Freud” appears on Page 9 on Sept. 21, along with “Dr. C. G. Jung,” in a list of passengers sailing to Bremen, Germany, aboard the Kaiser Wilhelm Der Grosse. It was the first time the newspaper mentioned his name. One of Freud’s most prominent disciples was a neurologist at Columbia University, Dr. A. A. Brill. On Sept. 8, 1912, in an article in the Sunday Magazine describing Dr. Brill’s ideas about the psychology of only children, Freud came up again. And it was on this day that The Times first referred to a new treatment method called “psychanalysis” and went on to define it: “It is an analysis by a trained psychologist of the patient’s mental life, a probing into the deepest recesses and darkest corners of his mind, with the idea of bringing back to consciousness the repressions which are at the basis of his condition.” A long article about the work of Carl Jung appeared in the magazine on Sept. 29, 1912, still referring to “psychanalysis” and mentioning Freud’s original work in the field. Five months later, on March 2, 1913, in yet another unsigned piece in the Magazine, the author expressed enthusiasm for the new science, explaining that “Freud’s method is known as psychanalysis, which bears the same relation to mental and nervous diseases that the microscope does to pathology.” The author described its effect as almost miraculous: “Those patients hovering on the borderline of insanity are made to see the absurdity of their fears, delusions, and obsessions, and by the force of logic are restored to mental health.” By June 1, 1913, the term had become “psychoanalysis” in a review of Freud’s book “The Interpretation of Dreams.” And it was psychoanalysis that formed the subject of still another lengthy article in the magazine on Oct. 18, 1914, illustrated with a portrait of Freud, this time concentrating on his ideas about slips of the tongue and other unconscious mistakes. Advertisement By the 1920s, Freud and psychoanalysis were frequently mentioned in The Times, not always positively. An article on Jan. 4, 1922, reported that a woman named Mercy Rogers had killed herself and that one of her colleagues blamed “Freudism,” claiming it was “a perilous weapon against self in the hands of an impressionable young woman.” On Feb. 4, 1923, a review of four books, including two by Freud, was headed “Psychoanalysis Rampant.” It led with this: “Psychoanalysis is not only coloring our literature, but, as a natural result, is creeping into and influencing life in many other directions.” Advertisement A search of The Times database from the early 1920s until Freud’s death yields nearly 300 references to him and almost 1,000 to psychoanalysis. Freud’s obituary was published on Sept. 24, 1939, and an unsigned editorial the next day said, “Whether he was a true scientist or not, Freud’s place is secure if for no other reason than that he broke down ancient taboos and cleared the way for a new approach to the mind.” He was, the editorial concluded, “the most effective disturber of complacency in our time.”   NICHOLAS BAKALAR A version of this article appears in print on October 11, 2011, on Page D7 of the New York edition with the headline: Sigmund Freud, 1909.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »