Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
SINDYA N. BHANOO

MAY 21, 2012
 A project to monitor hundreds of elephant seals that winter on the Northern California coast has yielded the largest set of data to date on any marine mammal. Researchers from the University of California, Santa Cruz, who started tagging large numbers of the endearingly loud and ungainly creatures at Año Nuevo Island in 2004, report their findings in the journal PLoS One. This study, which focuses on female seals, finds that every year some venture all the way to the Aleutian Islands in Alaska to forage, while others stay close to California. The highest densities of seals are in ocean currents called gyres, where nutrient-rich cold waters mix with warmer waters, creating an ideal environment for prey species. “What was really neat is that we were able to use the animals as photographers,” said the study’s first author, Patrick Robinson, an ecologist at Santa Cruz. “We found that they were feeding at this interesting temperature feature, based on the data the seals themselves were collecting.” Advertisement Dr. Robinson and his colleagues were also able to learn about changes in seals’ health. Before and after migrations, the researchers weighed the seals and gathered blood samples. And they gathered information on generations of seals. “We have tracks of a female who we studied six or seven years ago, and now we have tracks of her daughter who is the same age,” said another of the study’s authors, Daniel Costa, also an ecologist at the university. “And we have females who we have tracked three years in a row, so we can see how true they are to their pattern.” Advertisement Much of the data still needs to be analyzed, Dr. Costa said. But for the first time, because of the tracking, the data exists. A version of this article appears in print on May 22, 2012, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: A Tidal Wave of Data On Elephant Seals.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »