Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Apricot Crumble With Oatmeal Topping By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 20 minutes Trending Home/Made Mushroom Lasagna By Sam Sifton 2 hours Trending Caramelized Onion Dip With Frizzled Leeks By Mark Bittman 2 hours Trending The Greenest Green Salad By Samin Nosrat 20 minutes Trending Chana Dal, New Delhi-Style By Mark Bittman 1 hour Trending Moroccan Chickpeas With Chard By Melissa Clark 2 1/2 hours, plus overnight soaking Trending Sausage Ragù By Julia Moskin about 2 hours healthy Cherry Bread Pudding By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour, plus 2 hours' refrigeration healthy Apricot Bread Pudding By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour, plus 2 hours' refrigeration healthy Plum, Almond and Orange Galette By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours 15 minutes  Apricot and Almond Tart By Alice Hart 2 hours 10 minutes healthy Arugula, Cherry and Goat Cheese Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 5 minutes healthy Apricot Crumble With Oatmeal Topping By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 20 minutes Trending Home/Made Mushroom Lasagna By Sam Sifton 2 hours Trending Caramelized Onion Dip With Frizzled Leeks By Mark Bittman 2 hours Trending The Greenest Green Salad By Samin Nosrat 20 minutes Trending Chana Dal, New Delhi-Style By Mark Bittman 1 hour Trending Moroccan Chickpeas With Chard By Melissa Clark 2 1/2 hours, plus overnight soaking Trending Sausage Ragù By Julia Moskin about 2 hours healthy Cherry Bread Pudding By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour, plus 2 hours' refrigeration healthy Apricot Bread Pudding By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour, plus 2 hours' refrigeration healthy Plum, Almond and Orange Galette By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours 15 minutes  Apricot and Almond Tart By Alice Hart 2 hours 10 minutes healthy Arugula, Cherry and Goat Cheese Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 5 minutes healthy Apricot Crumble With Oatmeal Topping By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 20 minutes Trending Home/Made Mushroom Lasagna By Sam Sifton 2 hours 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   Apricots and cherries are two stone fruits that have great affinity for each other and for almonds. Even less than perfect apricots will do here, as they will sweeten and their flavor will deepen as they bake. 
Featured in: 
Summer Fruit Galettes. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Kosher,
                    Halal,
                    Low Sodium,
                    French,
                    Apricot,
                    Cherry
 By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours 30 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 3/4 hours By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus several hours of chilling By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.