Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

APRIL 23, 2012
 I like this sweet, colorful combination of julienne carrots and turnips with either traditional rice noodles or heartier buckwheat soba. The carrots and turnips can be simmered directly in the stock, as they will contribute to its sweet flavor. The broccoli should be steamed separately. 1 recipe vegetarian pho broth 1/2 pound firm tofu, cut in dominoes (optional) Soy sauce to taste (optional) 12 ounces soba or wide rice noodles 1 broccoli stem, peeled and cut in 1 1/2-inch julienne, steamed for 1 minute 1 broccoli crown, sliced thin and steamed for 1 minute 1 large carrot (about 5 ounces) peeled and cut in 1 1/2-inch julienne Advertisement 1 medium turnip, peeled and cut in 1 1/2-inch julienne 1/2 cup Asian or purple basil leaves, slivered 4 scallions, chopped Advertisement 1 cup chopped cilantro 2 to 4 bird or serrano chilies, sliced thin or finely chopped (to taste) 6 mint sprigs 3 to 4 limes, cut in wedges 1. Have the broth at a simmer in a soup pot. Place the tofu in a bowl and season with soy sauce if desired.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 2. For soba: Bring 3 or 4 quarts of water to a boil in a large pot. Add the noodles gradually, so that the water remains at a boil, and stir once with a long-handled spoon or pasta fork so that they don’t stick together. Wait for the water to come back up to a rolling boil – it will bubble up, so don’t fill the pot all the way – and add 1 cup of cold water. Allow the water to come back to a rolling boil and add another cup of cold water. Allow the water to come to a boil one more time and add a third cup of water. When the water comes to a boil again, the noodles should be cooked through. Drain and divide among 6 large soup bowls. For rice noodles: Bring a large pot of water to a boil and add the noodles. Cook until just al dente, firm to the bite, following the timing instructions on the package (my wide noodles take about 5 minutes). Drain and divide among 6 large soup bowls. 3. Add the turnips and carrots to the simmering broth and simmer until just tender, about 2 minutes. Divide the tofu and the steamed broccoli crowns and stems among the bowls. Ladle in the hot broth with carrots and turnips. Sprinkle on half the cilantro, half the basil leaves and the green onions. Pass the chopped chilies, the mint sprigs and the remaining basil and cilantro for guests to add as desired, and the lime wedges for guests to squeeze on. Serve with chopsticks for the noodles and soup spoons for the soup. Yield: 6 servings. Advance preparation: The broth will keep for a few days in the refrigerator and can be frozen. The noodles can be cooked several hours ahead. Rinse them after draining and keep in a bowl. Just before serving, reheat by dunking briefly into a pot of simmering water and draining (it helps to place them in a strainer or pasta pot insert). You can steam the broccoli stems several hours ahead. Nutritional information per serving: 245 calories (248 with optional fish sauce); 1 gram fat; 0 grams saturated fat; 0 grams polyunsaturated fat; 0 grams monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 54 grams carbohydrates; 5 grams dietary fiber; 159 milligrams sodium (349 milligrams with optional fish sauce; does not include salt to taste); 11 grams protein Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »