Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
KATE YANDELL

AUG. 27, 2012
 Chimpanzees in African sanctuaries harbor human strains of the bacterium Staphylococcus aureus, according to a new paper in The American Journal of Primatology. Chimpanzees carry their own strains of staph, but scientists worry that some human strains are particularly pathogenic and could be harmful if spread to wild chimpanzees. Nose and mouth swabs from 62 chimpanzees were taken in two sanctuaries in Uganda and Zambia. Scientists isolated staph from 36 animals; many of the strains showed drug resistance and had sequences usually found only in humans. Ten chimpanzees tested positive for staph carrying a gene for the toxin Panton-Valentine leukocidin, which is associated with severe infections of the skin, soft tissues and lungs in humans. The chimpanzees themselves did not become ill, the scientists said; they were merely carriers. Advertisement Staph spreads through close contact. Sanctuary workers often hold baby chimpanzees to warm and socialize them, so this is a likely route of transmission. The sanctuaries that took part in the study do not release chimpanzees, but other African sanctuaries do; releases are considered necessary in the face of overcrowding. Chimpanzees are quarantined and tested for some diseases before release, but they are not commonly tested for staph. Advertisement Fabian Leendertz, a wildlife veterinarian at the Robert Koch Institute in Berlin and an author of the paper, worries that if wild chimpanzees get human staph, it could weaken an already vulnerable population. “As long as this transmission happens in a captive setting, you can treat the animals,” he said. “But it gets tricky when we want to reintroduce those great apes into the wild.” A version of this article appears in print on August 28, 2012, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Bacteria From Humans Are Found in Chimps.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »