Advertisement 

 Claudia Dreifus
 
 
A CONVERSATION WITH
AUG. 27, 2012
 The developmental psychologist Daphne Maurer made headlines this year with research suggesting that people born with cataracts could improve their eyesight by playing Medal of Honor, the “first-person shooter” video game. But her fame goes far beyond the video screen. Dr. Maurer, 56, director of the Visual Development Lab at McMaster University in Ontario, is an author, with her husband, Charles, of the pioneering 1988 book “The World of the Newborn,” an inventory of what babies sense and experience. In recent years she has been directing a study tracking infants born with visual impairments into later life. This longitudinal study is her attempt to learn how early sensory deprivation affects vision over a lifetime. We spoke in person earlier this year and again by telephone last month. An edited and condensed version of the two conversations follows. How did computer games enter your life? Are you a gamer? No, not at all. I’m a reader. My husband and I don’t have children. So computer games wouldn’t be a part of our lives. I’ve never played one. I can’t imagine enjoying playing one. Advertisement For more than 25 years, I’ve been an investigator on a longitudinal study following the visual development of infants born with cataracts in their eyes. These youngsters went through a period of temporary visual deprivation. They didn’t get any of that early patterning in the world that regularly sighted infants get. As soon as possible, they received surgeries and corrective contact lenses at Toronto’s Hospital for Sick Children, after which their vision improved. Advertisement By following them and another group of youngsters who had developed cataracts after birth and had the same surgery, we could ask questions about visual development. How much of it is an innate unfolding? How much comes from what the baby sees in the early months of life, a time when the sector of the brain that controls vision, the visual cortex, is developing its neural wiring? And what did you discover? If the deprivation happened at birth, the children ended up with a few things that were normal. But there would be abnormalities in their adult vision. If the cataracts appeared later, let’s say at any time during the first 10 years, there would also be deficits, but not as severe as those in the group that had cataracts at birth. And how did that lead to your working with first-person shooter games? For the longest time, the zeitgeist was that the visual system, which includes the brain, was hard-wired in childhood and couldn’t be changed later. We wondered if that was true. Over the years, you would see hints in the literature that there was still plasticity in the adult brain. You’d sometimes read of adults recovering from childhood strokes, or from lazy eye. Then, Daphne Bavelier of Rochester University began publishing studies showing that computer games improved the vision of people with normal eyesight. I couldn’t help but wonder: If they helped the normally sighted, why not people with impairments? Also, I saw studies where enriched environments for rats improved aspects of vision damaged after early deprivation. Well, what’s an enriched visual environment for a human? It might be a computer game. I thought, “Click, why not give it a try?”  How exactly does one organize a study like this? We started by sending a letter to our patients, asking for volunteers. We explained why we thought it might work. Of course, we warned of potential risks: The game was violent — they would have to wield a symbolic gun and blow away their “enemies” on a screen. It could increase aggression. The game could be addictive. Seven of our adult patients decided that the hope of better vision was worth the risk.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. There was quite a bit of time involved. We tested their vision for five hours. Because there’s a learning curve to gaming, we supervised their play for another 10 hours. Then they went home with a loaded console and played for 10 hours a week, though never more than 2 hours at a time. At the end of a month, we tested their vision again. They all showed some improvement on a number of tasks. Some were seeing better with their better eye or with their worse eye — or with both. Most improved in their ability to see direction of motion. They could see smaller details. They were able to see things that are in lower contrast. We were elated. This was a sign that the sensory brain can change in adults.  Why do you think this type of game was therapeutic? Well, if you stepped back and asked what might be an effective therapy for visual defects, first-person shooter games have a lot of what’s needed. They require a person to monitor the whole field of vision, not just what is ahead of them. The player has to monitor everything, because the enemy could come from anywhere. The game is fast-paced. You can’t sit back because you will get shot dead. We know that the game changes neurochemicals. It causes an adrenaline rush. It also causes dopamine levels to rise in the brain. That potentially may make the brain more plastic. Advertisement The game we used has got what’s called vision for action. You have to look at the screen, make a decision and push the joystick in the right direction. So you are not only sensing the world, you are acting on it. We know that combining vision and the motor system is most likely to be effective. Now, not all games do this. Other researchers have tried a game called Tetris with people with normal vision. It’s not from the first-person perspective, and it is not fast-paced. They found it had no effect.    Do you have any insight on the science of why the games work? One thing that might be happening is that they are changing the balance of excitation and inhibition in the inputs to neurons in the visual cortex. Video games could be actually rewiring the brain and allowing new connections to be formed. They could be unmasking connections that have always been there, but weren’t quite strong enough to be expressed. They might be helping the brain get more efficient at responding to small and weak visual signals. Or all three.  Some critics might complain that your study had only a small number of people in it — seven. How do you answer them? Well, these seven people had a visual deficit that had been stable for years. If anything, their abilities had gone down. Now, we had a four-week intervention and they improved. What this shows is the enormous possibility of changing vision in adulthood. We also had a control group of people with the same visual issues who didn’t play the game.  Do the games have to be violent? We don’t know. We suspect not. I’ve been working with a network of other researchers to build a nonviolent game that could do the same thing. Now it could be that the adrenal rush that comes with the violence is critical for changing the state of the brain and that is what makes it more plastic. We hope not. That’s an empirical question we’ll find out.  One senses you have a grudging respect for the designers of these games?  Yes, I do. I think the reason that they are so popular is that they figured out, probably without reading the literature, how to turn on the brain. And that’s why they’ve been a commercial success. A version of this interview appears in print on August 28, 2012, on Page D2 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »