Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

NOV. 15, 2011
 Cornmeal is used in many breads in the Mediterranean and southern Europe, especially in Turkey and Portugal. It contributes wonderful texture.  2 teaspoons active dry yeast 1/2 teaspoon sugar 435 grams (2 cups) lukewarm water 130 grams (1 cup) unbleached all-purpose flour 300 grams (2 cups) whole-wheat flour, plus additional as required for kneading 130 grams (1 cup) finely ground cornmeal 2 1/4 teaspoons salt 1. Combine the yeast, sugar and water in a large bowl or the bowl of a standing mixer fitted with the paddle attachment and stir until dissolved. Add the all-purpose flour and stir together until smooth. Cover with plastic and let sit in a warm spot until bubbly, about 30 minutes. Advertisement 2. Stir the cornmeal into the sponge, then add the salt and the remaining flour, a cup at a time, and fold in until you can turn your dough out onto a lightly floured work surface. If using an electric mixer, add all the flour and the salt, and beat at low speed with the paddle attachment until combined. Change to the dough hook and beat at medium speed for 8 to 10 minutes, until the dough is smooth and elastic. Shape into a ball. Advertisement 3. Clean your bowl and oil lightly with olive oil. Place the dough in the bowl, rounded side down first, then rounded side up. Cover with plastic and set in a warm spot to rise for 1 1/2 hours, or until doubled in size.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 4. Punch down the dough and shape into a large round. With a razor or moistened serrated knife, slash an X across the top. Oil a baking sheet and sprinkle with cornmeal. Place the loaf on the baking sheet and cover with a damp towel. Leave until doubled in size, about 45 minutes to an hour. Meanwhile, preheat the oven to 425 degrees. 5. Place the dough in the oven and set the timer for 10 minutes. After 10 minutes turn the heat down to 400 degrees. Bake 35 to 40 minutes, or until the loaf responds to tapping with a hollow sound. Remove from the heat and allow to cool on a rack. Yield: 1 large (2-pound) round loaf. Advance preparation: The bread will keep for 3 or 4 days, and freezes well. Nutritional information per 2-ounce slice: 109 calories; 0 grams saturated fat; 0 grams polyunsaturated fat; 0 grams monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 23 grams carbohydrates; 2 grams dietary fiber; 329 milligrams sodium; 4 grams protein  Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”    We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »