Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

NOV. 8, 2011
 This is particularly colorful because of the beautiful salmon-colored red lentils. They are soaked, not cooked, and contribute a fresh flavor and crunchy texture to the mix. 1 1/2 cups red rice, like Bhutanese red rice or Lundberg Wehani 1/2 cup black rice, like Forbidden Rice or Lundberg Black Japonica 1 quart water, chicken stock or vegetable stock Salt to taste 1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil 1 small or medium onion, finely chopped 1 cup diced celery 2 garlic cloves, minced 1/3 cup red lentils, soaked in cold water to cover for 2 or 3 hours and drained Advertisement 1 tablespoon finely chopped sage (more to taste) 1 tablespoon fresh thyme leaves, coarsely chopped 1/3 cup dried cranberries Advertisement 1/3 cup toasted almonds, coarsely chopped Freshly ground pepper 1. Cook the black and red rice separately in 2 parts water or stock with salt to taste, following the directions on the package for timing. When the rice is tender, turn off the heat, place clean kitchen towels between the saucepans and their lids, and let sit for 10 to 15 minutes. 2. While the rice is cooking, prepare the remaining ingredients. Heat the oil over medium heat in a large, heavy skillet and add the onion. Cook, stirring often, until the onion begins to soften, about 3 minutes. Add the celery and a generous pinch of salt, and continue to cook until the onion is completely tender, another 3 to 4 minutes. Stir in the garlic and cook, stirring, until it is fragrant, about 30 to 60 seconds. Remove from the heat.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 3. Transfer the red and black rices to a large bowl. Add the onion and celery mixture and the remaining ingredients. Stir together, taste and adjust seasonings. Transfer to a lightly oiled or buttered baking dish and cover with foil. 4. Warm the stuffing in a 325-degree oven for 20 to 30 minutes before serving. Yield: Makes about 7 cups, serving 12 to 14. Advance preparation: The cooked grains will keep for 3 days in the refrigerator and can be frozen. The stuffing benefits from being made a day ahead. Nutritional information per serving (12 servings): 178 calories; 0 grams saturated fat; 1 gram polyunsaturated fat; 2 grams monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 33 grams carbohydrates; 3 grams dietary fiber; 10 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 5 grams protein.    Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »