Advertisement Getting their choices on end-of-life care recorded can help patients feel secure that their wishes will be respected, experts say. 


By JANE E. BRODY
 Marathons or other vigorous events are unlikely to make you vulnerable to colds afterward, according to a myth-busting review of the latest science. 


By GRETCHEN REYNOLDS
 Giving up on training for a marathon was very much in keeping with the rest of my life right now, as I am learning the lost art of quitting. 


By CHRISTINE BADER
 Hospitals lure diabetes patients with self-management classes, but the education can come with a high price tag. 


By JULIE APPLEBY, KAISER HEALTH NEWS
 What’s behind the claims that alkaline water will “energize” and “detoxify” the body and lead to “superior hydration”? 


By ALICE CALLAHAN
 Before my illness, I was a healthy 22-year-old. But, my doctors speculated, I must have eaten some leafy greens contaminated by E. coli bacteria. 


By MAGGIE MENDITTO
 People often overestimate the time required to commute actively. 


By GRETCHEN REYNOLDS
 An outbreak of infections linked to bagged romaine lettuce has left salad lovers confused. Here are answers to common questions about leafy greens. 


By TARA PARKER-POPE
 Test your knowledge of this week’s health news. 


By TOBY BILANOW
 It’s not always easy to tell if you have heart disease or have had a heart attack. 


By RONI CARYN RABIN
 Oats, water, even sneakers may be advertised as “gluten-free.” 


By SOPHIE EGAN
 Stay hydrated, use a humidifier and be patient. Honey may be as effective as over-the-counter remedies. 


By RICHARD KLASCO, M.D
 People can, and often do, get infected with multiple germs. Sometimes it helps; sometimes it hurts. 


By RICHARD KLASCO, M.D
 Wearing a mask may protect you from infecting others or your own chances of getting sick, but they are far from foolproof. 


By RICHARD KLASCO, M.D
 Help for parents bewildered by the sense that the game has swallowed their children, especially since the mobile phone version was released in late March. By LISA DAMOUR There are mornings I wake up and think, as the world and the day come into focus, that I no longer have a parent living. By PERRI KLASS, M.D Efforts to curb gun violence have stalled in part because of the power of the N.R.A. The movement inspired by shootings in Parkland, Fla., aims to change that. By CLYDE HABERMAN A life-threatening heart infection afflicts a growing number of people who inject opioids or meth. Costly surgery can fix it, but the addiction often goes unaddressed. By ABBY GOODNOUGH A few brushes with mortality helped reset my lifelong rivalry with my brother. By SUSAN SHAPIRO A woman opens her heart to a relationship with a young immigrant from Colombia, despite the likelihood that it can’t last. By ALISSA TORRES Women who drank more than two to three cups of coffee a day were more likely to have obese children. By NICHOLAS BAKALAR Romaine lettuce from Harrison Farms in Yuma, Ariz., sickened eight people in Alaska, health officials said. In all, 98 have been infected so far. By NIRAJ CHOKSHI A reader wants to withhold an invitation to a family party from the sibling who did the same on her wedding day. By PHILIP GALANES For people who are not gender conforming, traditional parent names may not fit. Some are trying mash-ups like “Mather” or “Maddie.” By STEPHANIE FAIRYINGTON The “Broad City” star tells the story of woman who is wooed by a bread maker. Over-the-counter drugs like Advil and Tylenol are safer and more effective than prescription opioids for easing pain following dental procedures. By NICHOLAS BAKALAR A reader tries to process her sexual assault by the person who supposedly knew her — and all her vulnerabilities — better than anyone. By CHERYL STRAYED and STEVE ALMOND Getting six kids out the door every morning is a lot of work. Luckily, we don’t do it. They do. By JUSTIN COULSON People almost never put on enough sunscreen, so using a higher SPF may be your best bet. By NICHOLAS BAKALAR In “I Feel You,” Cris Beam examines how we come to feel one another’s pain. By MIMI SWARTZ Colleges may emphasize the amount of aid awarded, rather than the actual cost of attending a school, financial aid experts say. By ANN CARRNS New rules don’t explicitly exclude teaching about contraception and protected sex, but favor “sexual risk avoidance” and don’t require as rigorous evidence of efficacy. By PAM BELLUCK Coursing through pop culture, this attitude puts the onus on women to improve their self-esteem instead of criticizing societal beauty standards. By AMANDA HESS “People don’t truly understand what A.D.H.D. is and why a kid who’s bright can’t just grit his teeth and get it done,” a child psychiatrist says. By PERRI KLASS, M.D Help for parents bewildered by the sense that the game has swallowed their children, especially since the mobile phone version was released in late March. By LISA DAMOUR There are mornings I wake up and think, as the world and the day come into focus, that I no longer have a parent living. By PERRI KLASS, M.D Efforts to curb gun violence have stalled in part because of the power of the N.R.A. The movement inspired by shootings in Parkland, Fla., aims to change that. By CLYDE HABERMAN A life-threatening heart infection afflicts a growing number of people who inject opioids or meth. Costly surgery can fix it, but the addiction often goes unaddressed. By ABBY GOODNOUGH A few brushes with mortality helped reset my lifelong rivalry with my brother. By SUSAN SHAPIRO A woman opens her heart to a relationship with a young immigrant from Colombia, despite the likelihood that it can’t last. By ALISSA TORRES Women who drank more than two to three cups of coffee a day were more likely to have obese children. By NICHOLAS BAKALAR Romaine lettuce from Harrison Farms in Yuma, Ariz., sickened eight people in Alaska, health officials said. In all, 98 have been infected so far. By NIRAJ CHOKSHI A reader wants to withhold an invitation to a family party from the sibling who did the same on her wedding day. By PHILIP GALANES For people who are not gender conforming, traditional parent names may not fit. Some are trying mash-ups like “Mather” or “Maddie.” By STEPHANIE FAIRYINGTON The “Broad City” star tells the story of woman who is wooed by a bread maker. Over-the-counter drugs like Advil and Tylenol are safer and more effective than prescription opioids for easing pain following dental procedures. By NICHOLAS BAKALAR A reader tries to process her sexual assault by the person who supposedly knew her — and all her vulnerabilities — better than anyone. By CHERYL STRAYED and STEVE ALMOND Getting six kids out the door every morning is a lot of work. Luckily, we don’t do it. They do. By JUSTIN COULSON People almost never put on enough sunscreen, so using a higher SPF may be your best bet. By NICHOLAS BAKALAR In “I Feel You,” Cris Beam examines how we come to feel one another’s pain. By MIMI SWARTZ Colleges may emphasize the amount of aid awarded, rather than the actual cost of attending a school, financial aid experts say. By ANN CARRNS New rules don’t explicitly exclude teaching about contraception and protected sex, but favor “sexual risk avoidance” and don’t require as rigorous evidence of efficacy. By PAM BELLUCK Coursing through pop culture, this attitude puts the onus on women to improve their self-esteem instead of criticizing societal beauty standards. By AMANDA HESS “People don’t truly understand what A.D.H.D. is and why a kid who’s bright can’t just grit his teeth and get it done,” a child psychiatrist says. By PERRI KLASS, M.D Go to Home Page »