Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
SINDYA N. BHANOO

FEB. 20, 2012
 Marriage, infidelity and divorce: These intimate matters are familiar to humans. But oddly enough, birds deal with them as well. Now researchers have found that avian infidelity is more common in severe or uncertain weather. “Environmental conditions help shape reproductive decisions that seem incredibly personal and idiosyncratic,” said Carlos A. Botero, a biologist at North Carolina State University and first author of a study of mating habits among birds published in the current issue of the journal PloS One. The sweeping report looks at data on more than 80 bird species, including swallows, chickadees, bluebirds, falcons, gulls and geese. In birds, infidelity is measured through paternity tests comparing DNA from parents sharing an offspring in the nest. Divorce is measured by how birds pair off. When two birds are paired one year but seek new partners the next, they are considered “divorced.” Advertisement Dr. Botero and his colleague Dustin R. Rubenstein, a biologist at Columbia University, found that promiscuity increases when weather changes, because birds seek different traits in their mates as conditions change.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. For instance, in a climate where rain is abundant and there are many fruits, birds might rely on small, soft seeds for food. In this case, a female might be attracted to a male with a short, narrow bill capable of easily eating these seeds. But if conditions turn dry and only hard seeds are available, a bird with a stronger, bigger beak might be more capable — and more alluring as a mate. Advertisement The researchers believe that as the climate changes, birds may be reckoning with increased marital strife. A version of this article appears in print on February 21, 2012, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Changes in Weather Add To Birds’ Marital Woes.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »