Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Carrot, Squash and Potato Ragout With Thai Flavors By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes Trending Cumin-Roasted Salmon With Cilantro Sauce By Alison Roman 30 minutes Trending Marcella Hazan’s Bolognese Sauce By The New York Times At least 4 hours Trending Quintessential Chocolate Chip Cookies By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes Trending Vegetarian Chili With Winter Vegetables By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes Trending Spanish Tortilla With Tomato-Pepper Salad By Melissa Clark 45 minutes Trending Country ‘Meatloaf’ With Golden Gravy By Tara Parker-Pope 2 hours 30 minutes healthy Quinoa With Corn and Zucchini By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Spiced Yellow Lentils with Quinoa By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes healthy Quinoa and Greens Burger By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes healthy Stuffed Cabbage Leaves By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes healthy Black Quinoa, Fennel and Celery Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 5 minutes healthy Carrot, Squash and Potato Ragout With Thai Flavors By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes Trending Cumin-Roasted Salmon With Cilantro Sauce By Alison Roman 30 minutes Trending Marcella Hazan’s Bolognese Sauce By The New York Times At least 4 hours Trending Quintessential Chocolate Chip Cookies By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes Trending Vegetarian Chili With Winter Vegetables By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes Trending Spanish Tortilla With Tomato-Pepper Salad By Melissa Clark 45 minutes Trending Country ‘Meatloaf’ With Golden Gravy By Tara Parker-Pope 2 hours 30 minutes healthy Quinoa With Corn and Zucchini By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Spiced Yellow Lentils with Quinoa By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes healthy Quinoa and Greens Burger By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes healthy Stuffed Cabbage Leaves By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes healthy Black Quinoa, Fennel and Celery Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 5 minutes healthy Carrot, Squash and Potato Ragout With Thai Flavors By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes Trending Cumin-Roasted Salmon With Cilantro Sauce By Alison Roman 30 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   This vibrant burger is made with both cooked and uncooked vegetables. The egg is optional; if you don’t use it, be careful when flipping the patty so that it doesn’t fall apart. 
Featured in: 
Tasty Burgers, Without The Meat. 
   

Learn: How to Cook Beans
 
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Vegan,
                    Dairy Free,
                    Gluten Free
 By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus 2 hours' refrigeration By Mark Bittman 35 to 45 minutes with cooked beans By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour, not including chilling in the refrigerator or baking the sweet potatoes By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 45 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Sam Sifton
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.