Advertisement Supported by Recipes for Health By Martha Rose Shulman I have always had a weakness for black bean tostadas. These are not unlike Oaxacan tlayudas, though this recipe doesn’t call for that dish’s signature extra-large corn tortillas. I used luxurious black and white vaqueros from Rancho Gordo for these, but black beans will also work well. Cook them yourself (don’t use canned), because you’ll need the delicious broth. I don’t refry them for as long as I normally would because I like them moist, and vaqueros are starchier than black beans. Total time: 45 minutes to 1 hour 1 tablespoon grape seed oil or canola oil 2 teaspoons cumin seeds, ground 4 cups simmered black beans or vaquero beans, with liquid 3/4 pound ripe tomatoes, finely chopped 1 to 2 serrano or jalapeño chiles (to taste), minced 2 slices red or white onion, finely chopped and soaked for 5 minutes in water to cover, then drained, rinsed, and drained on paper towels 1/4 cup chopped cilantro (more to taste) 1 teaspoon fresh lime juice (optional) 1 small ripe Hass avocado, cut in small dice 2/3 to 3/4 cup shredded lettuce or cabbage About 3 ounces queso fresco or feta for crumbling 1. Heat oil over medium heat in a large, heavy pan (I use a heavy nonstick pan for this) and add cumin. When it is sizzling, add beans with their liquid and turn up heat to medium-high. Cook beans, mashing with the back of your spoon and stirring often, until they are thick but still fairly moist, about 10 to 15 minutes. Remove from heat. Every so often a layer of thick broth should begin to stick to the pan. Stir that into the beans – it has a lot of flavor. The smashed beans will continue to dry even after you remove from the heat. 2. Toast the tortillas. For really crisp tortillas, heat one at a time (2 if you have a large enough microwave to fit 2 without the tortillas overlapping) in a microwave for 1 minute on full power. Flip tortilla over and microwave for 30 seconds to a minute more on full power, until crisp. You can also toast them in a dry pan or directly over the flame, but this will not crisp the tortillas, it will just char them. 3. In a medium bowl, combine tomatoes, chiles, onion, and cilantro. Season to taste with salt. Stir in lime juice and the avocado. Let sit for 15 to 30 minutes for the best flavor. 4. Spread about 1/2 cup of the refried beans over each tortilla. Top with a generous spoonful of salsa. Place a handful of shredded lettuce or cabbage on top and if desired a little more salsa on the lettuce. Sprinkle on some white cheese, and serve. Yield: 8 tostadas, serving 4 to 8 Advance preparation: The cooked black beans will keep for 4 days in the refrigerator. The refried beans will keep for as long but will continue to dry out, so you’ll want to moisten them with water or bean broth before you make the tostadas. Nutritional information per serving (4 servings): 373 calories; 12 grams fat; 3 grams saturated fat; 4 grams polyunsaturated fat; 5 grams monounsaturated fat; 7 milligrams cholesterol; 50 grams carbohydrates; 19 grams dietary fiber; 40 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 22 grams protein Nutritional information per serving (8 servings): 187 calories; 6 grams fat; 1 gram saturated fat; 2 grams polyunsaturated fat; 3 grams monounsaturated fat; 3 milligrams cholesterol; 25 grams carbohydrates; 9 grams dietary fiber; 20 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 10 grams protein    Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS