Advertisement Supported by Recipes for Health By Martha Rose Shulman I’ve always had a weakness for tuna and bean salad. This one, because I used luxurious Good Mother Stallard beans from Rancho Gordo, is quite the most amazing version of the salad I’ve ever tasted. If you want to use a more commonly available bean for it, use pintos or borlottis, but cook them yourself instead of using canned. Then you can use some of the broth in the dressing and the beans themselves will taste better because you’re in control of the seasonings. The nutritional values here are based on tuna canned in water, but you could always use tuna in olive oil for a richer version. Total time: About 15 minutes 3/4 pound green beans, trimmed 1 small red onion, cut in half and sliced in half-moons (optional) 2 5-ounce cans tuna (packed in water or olive oil), drained 1 1/2 cups cooked Good Mother Stallard, borlotti, pinto or white beans (if using canned beans, rinse) 2 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley 2 tablespoons chopped chives 2 teaspoons chopped fresh marjoram or sage 2 tablespoons sherry vinegar or red wine vinegar Salt to taste 1 garlic clove, minced or puréed 1 teaspoon Dijon mustard 2 tablespoons bean broth 6 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 1. Bring a medium-size pot of water to a boil and add salt to taste. Blanch green beans for 4 minutes (5 minutes if beans are thick), until just tender. Transfer to a bowl of cold water and drain. (Alternatively, steam beans for 4 to 5 minutes). Cut or break beans in half if very long. 2. Meanwhile, place sliced onion, if using, in a bowl and cover with cold water. Soak 5 minutes. Drain, rinse and drain again on paper towels. 2. Drain tuna and place in a salad bowl. Break up with a fork. Add cooked dried beans, green beans, onion and herbs. Toss together. 3. In a small bowl or measuring cup, whisk together vinegar, salt, garlic, mustard and bean broth. Whisk in olive oil. Toss with tuna and bean mixture, and serve. Yield: Serves 6 Advance preparation: This will keep for a day in the refrigerator, but you should keep the green beans separate and toss with the other ingredients just before serving so they retain their bright green color. Nutritional information per serving: 261 calories; 15 grams fat; 2 grams saturated fat; 3 grams polyunsaturated fat; 10 grams monounsaturated fat; 20 milligrams cholesterol; 16 grams carbohydrates; 5 grams dietary fiber; 200 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 16 grams protein    Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS