Advertisement 

 Claudia Dreifus
 
 
A CONVERSATION WITH
DEC. 2, 2013
 Col. Robert G. Hale fixes faces. As the commander of the Army’s dental and trauma research detachment at Fort Sam Houston in San Antonio, Colonel Hale, 57, has helped develop new ways to heal the facial wounds of soldiers returning from combat overseas. We spoke at a meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, where he was a featured speaker, and later by telephone. A condensed and edited version of the two conversations follows.   Colonel Hale, are you a career soldier? I am now. Before 2003, I owned and operated my own surgery center in Los Angeles. I was also in the reserves. In the fall of 2003, I found a presidential order in my fax machine, activating me. I had 19 days to get everything together and to go to war. By the time my unit — it was actually a reserve combat support hospital — got to Kuwait, things were strange over there. The war in Iraq was supposed to be over, but it was just getting started. I was supposed to be in the war zone for 90 days, but my reserve unit kept getting extended. Then, after six months, I was sent to Afghanistan. Advertisement After almost a year in combat zones, I returned to Los Angeles, but with a different perspective about what I wanted to do with my life. I was no longer interested in caring for wealthy people with small problems. I wanted to care for the wounded sons and daughters of this country who I’d seen had much bigger problems. I sold my practice and joined the Army, full time. Advertisement   You are a dentist, am I correct? I’m an oral and maxillofacial surgeon. It’s a dental specialty where we fix the bones and structural elements of the face and close up wounds to the face. At the beginning of the Iraq war, we were the only face surgeons in the theater. We were utilized for facial wounds, facial injuries from explosions, heavy equipment falling on people, problems like that.   Are American soldiers suffering more facial injuries in Iraq and Afghanistan than in previous wars? It’s more. If you look at the shooting wars we’ve been in within the last 100 years, 16 to 21 percent of battle-injured soldiers had wounds to the face. In 2008, I surveyed our registry of battle injuries sustained by our soldiers and found 27 percent had injuries to the face. A year ago, I did a more comprehensive review. The numbers were between 33 and 40 percent.   Is this because of new types of weaponry like improvised explosive devices, I.E.D.s? We’ve had explosive devices used against us since World War I. I.E.D.s are not new. We think some of the increase may be due to our soldiers’ wearing body armor, which protects them from dying outright. The extremities and the head and neck stick out from the body armor and get more of a beating. Also, advances in combat medicine — tourniquets, resuscitation from shock — may mean that more wounded soldiers are surviving.   Are facial wounds difficult to repair? The face, particularly facial skin, is delicate. We think of it as something we look at, but it has a lot of important functions. It brings air, food, liquid to the body. Our sensory organs, sight, hearing, smell: They are all a part of the face.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. With combat wounds, the face is often burned and scarred. The face can’t tolerate much scarring because scarring causes the eyelids to contract and the nose and the lips not to work. Advertisement The surgeries we do to close up facial wounds, to build up someone’s nose or lips, some of the techniques date back 100 years. They are, quite frankly, inadequate. I have a patient, Sgt. Todd Nelson; he was badly burned in Afghanistan. He’s undergone dozens of surgeries, and each time, it’s showed our limitations. Sometimes, we achieved a small amount of movement of Todd’s lips. Then the scarring would come right back and ravage the results, and you’d have to do it again. He went through 40, 50 operations just to get a functional result and the aesthetic result was far from what we’d consider normal. How did you become a researcher? Around the time I joined the active Army, the world’s first face transplant was announced. It was controversial. Was this cosmetic, too expensive, unethical — what? But the woman who’d had the transplant, she had no lips and no nose. Hers were the same injuries I’d seen in war. I thought, “This is a technology we need to look at.” I went to Washington, D.C., a few times and spoke on the panels and said that. People seemed to listen. The Army had this standing dental research unit, mostly doing work on periodontal disease. In 2009, a general officer asked me to take command of it and change its focus toward optimizing combat casualty care, particularly on the face.   What does the unit do now? We have three areas of emphasis: improving wound healing, restoring the face after burns and bone regeneration. It’s about 40 people, with a budget of about $6 million a year. We’re a part of the Armed Forces Institute of Regenerative Medicine, which is a larger virtual institute of over 30 institutes. If we can improve healing, we can reduce scarring and the necessity for so many surgeries later on. So we’ve been wondering: Is it possible to spray an agent on a wound right in the battlefield to decrease infection, inflammation and the scarring response? There’s a peptide one of my colleagues came up with that destroys bacteria. We’re testing it. We’re also thinking that perhaps adult stem cells harvested from our own bodies, from our fat, can be used to control inflammation. They have certain anti-inflammatory properties we might be able to exploit. We’ve been injecting it into fresh scars, and our early results show that the scars become less inflamed.   You’ve been working on something you call “spray-on skin.” What is it? There’s an Australian researcher, Dr. Fiona Wood, who came up with the concept of taking a small patch of skin off someone’s torso, dissolving it in enzymes, harvesting the immature skin cells, putting it into a solution and spraying it onto an open wound. She’s shown it helps close wounds faster. Part of our efforts involve setting up the clinical trials so that we could use it on soldiers and see if it’s beneficial to them.   Are there civilian uses for your research? Absolutely. When you’re looking at bone regenerative material for soldiers, it will help everyone, especially dental-implant patients. As far as the skin regenerative, there are all kinds of situations where civilians need to have facial skin resurfaced and replaced — fires, car accidents. And spray-on skin? This is revolutionary! And it’s something that probably would not have been developed if there wasn’t a war and an urgent need for it.   The payoff on your work sounds as if it’s far in the future. Is it? Research takes a long time. Our goal is fewer surgeries, less invasive surgeries, less scarring and better results. Each breakthrough will give us a level of improvement. They’ll build on each other. I can see us being able to do high-quality facial restorations within seven to 10 years. A version of this interview appears in print on December 3, 2013, on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: Healing Soldiers’ Most Exposed Wounds.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »