During a medical emergency, a patient’s husband, wife, parents or other family members often are close by, overseeing treatment, making medical decisions and keeping vigil at the bedside. But what happens if the hospital won’t allow you to stay with your partner or child?  That’s the challenge many same-sex couples face during health care emergencies when hospital security personnel, administrators and even doctors and nurses exclude them from a patient’s room because they aren’t “real” family members. The issue is addressed in a new report from The Human Rights Campaign Foundation, a gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender civil rights group, and the Gay and Lesbian Medical Association. The groups have created a Healthcare Equality Index for hospitals that focuses on five key areas: patient rights, visitation, decision-making, cultural competency training and employment policies and benefits.  This year, 166 facilities across the country agreed to participate in the report, about twice as many as last year. The group says nearly 75 percent of the hospitals have policies to protect their patients from discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. However, sometimes the policies aren’t correctly implemented by hospital workers. Some examples of unfair treatment of gay couples cited by the group include:   
 While heterosexual couples typically don’t have to provide marriage licenses to hospitals in order to prove they are husband and wife, same sex couples often must document their relationship to hospital officials before being allowed to take part in a partner’s care. “There is a real disconnect between what might be a good written policy or state law and actual implementation of that policy or law,” said Ellen Kahn, family project director for the HRC. “If you’re presenting as two men in a couple and you say, ‘This is my partner. I’ll make medical decisions,’ you’re asked a lot of questions. Who is this person to you? Do you have legal documentation that verifies that? A parent, sister or nephew could have more rights under the law than a same-sex partner who has been together 20 years.” Although many hospitals have improved their treatment of same-sex couples, partners are advised to keep legal documents close by in the event of a medical emergency. Friends should also have ready access to documents so they can fax or e-mail them if necessary.  For couples who don’t have documentation or are worried that their relationship might not be recognized during a medical emergency, the solution often is to pretend to be a sibling in order to ensure access to a partner. “If you’re on the road and have a crisis, the word on the street is just say, ‘This is my sister,’ or ‘This is my brother,’ ” Ms. Kahn said. “Most people won’t raise an eyebrow about it unless you look very different. It’s sad that we have to think about that. Am I going to be better off saying this is my sister or this is my life partner?” Comments are no longer being accepted. Go to a lawyer and designate your same-sex partner as the health care proxy (power of attorney). Carry the document with you when you go to the hospital. There is no way the hospital can deny you access. FROM TPP — But in these examples I gave, the individuals involved did have legal documentation. They were still denied.  This is why marriage equality has to be put into law at the federal level. As long as it’s just a states’ rights issue, these kind of death’s-door situations are inevitable. Obama, Pelosi, are you listening? As I read the examples this article provides my stomach churned.  Though I chastise myself for being so naive, I remain amazed in 2009 episodes like this still occur.  During a medical crisis is the exact wrong time to place the burden on a same-sex partner to prove their right to be involved in their loved one’s care.  It amazes me that caregivers, of all people, would put up barriers like this. //happinessinthisworld.com This makes me so angry!  My partner and I have thought very carefully about where we live precisely so we do have rights to protect.  Mary Cheney, the daughter of former Vice President Cheney, lives in Virginia, a state that has a terrible record of recognizing same sex partners.  She and her partner have a child and I think that it is unconscionable that they live in a state that will do so little to protect her partner’s rights as either a parent or a partner.  Every parent should have the right to be fully involved in his/her child’s life and it upsets me to know that these rights are systematically denied in our country. Thank you so much for writing about this important issue! It breaks my heart to think that loving, committed couples may be separated from each other when one of them is dying. There is no excuse for hospitals to keep same sex couples apart at such a critical time! I wonder how a husband or wife (under the protection of traditional marriage) would feel if he or she were suddenly denied seeing their spouse …And often the other heart-breaking thing is that the “family” members who ARE allowed to see a dying partner are the very people who abandoned their gay children when they came out… I don’t see the logic in the hospital’s stance at all.
If I were traveling with my best friend (we’re both women) and she had an accident, why NOT allow me in to help support her? It’s not like a crowd is breaking down the door. It’s not like hospitals are facing a crisis of strangers victimizing patients either. Is this about liability somehow?
Because I’d sue the hospital for keeping me from a friend or loved one’s side after an emergency. This article doesn’t mention the fact that patients do better at hospitals when someone is there to advocate for them, and comfort them. Why do hospitals keep that from happening? Because this doesn’t necessarily seem to be about their denying gay partners rights, although I’m quite sure they do. It’s about discrimination and something else, it seems. IF in my scenario I simply said she was my best friend (or sister), if I simply said anything BUT she’s my lesbian lover, they’d allow me in at least to comfort her – if not make legal decisions regarding her care. TPP, response to #1. Domestic partner registration and advanced medical directives are not the same as health care proxy/medical power of attorney. For health care proxy, there is NO requirement for any relationship whatsoever, except the  health care proxy designation. For the children of registered domestic partners, I believe they have parental rights also, but they should bring the documents. Yes, there is undue discrimination, but if you bring the documents, it will be hard for them to deny you. In fact, it would be best if everyone, including married couples, brought documents. Hospitals are afraid that they may be sued by patients and their families if medical decisions are made by those who are unauthorized to make them. It has happened, not infrequently. The rules consistently push away same-sex partners (I’ve heard lots of stories from friends), but in the spirit of the sibling-ruse suggested here, practically any interested person can insert himself/herself  into the care of a friend at the hospital. My mother is in the hospital right now, and I can’t be there. She has a lot of devoted friends and distant relatives where she lives. Her charm inspires a lot of devotion, and she’s admittedly manipulative (ala “how to win friends and influence people” ;-), even with the worsening dementia. So, she has various people interacting with doctors, nurses, and social workers to get what she wants. She can’t really get these things so well, herself, because her dementia got her to the hospital, in the first place. Her credibility isn’t so good with the staff. But others can seem to wrangle practically anything, with the right approach.  Oh well, I’ll cope with the counterproductive things she’s talked people into (her care is becoming my direct responsibility, so it’s fair for me to approve big decisions). But it’s relevant to this post, that there are plenty of ways to “get over,” at hospitals. I don’t know them all (I’m not there), but I’m sure they exist. It is abhorrent that medical providers today continue to discriminate against gay and lesbian patients, in so many ways. Physicians ought to review their hospitals’ governing documents and ensure that anti-discrimination language appears, and is properly enforced. Samurai (#2), you’re right on.  This business of each state’s recognizing or not recognizing gay civil marriage (or recognizing it last week but not this week, etc.) has got to be changed.  We need to go back to each state’s recognizing civil marriages performed in other states. Period. The sky will not fall if my same-sex partner of almost a quarter of a century and I are allowed to keep our California civil marriage forever, and have it recognized when we visit our grandchildren in Iowa and our elderly parents in Florida – and when we live our daily lives in our home state.   We’re getting older ourselves (59 & 63), and this article emphasizes those things that we fear every day.  We have only one hospital in our medium-sized town in Arizona, and we thank our lucky stars that we have, so far, been treated as any other couple, no problems raised.  But we worry that, when life & death decisions must be made, as they surely must be at some time, problems a’plenty will raise their ugly heads.  We hope that, by that time, our civil marriage is recognized all across this country without our having to deal with the problems pointed out in this article. Tara, thanks for discussing this and for pointing out how real this problem is.  Foes of civil marriage equality say, “You should just have a legal document that specifies so and so….”  Well, that doesn’t work for the problems with hospitals, nor to take care of the 1,000 or so other civil rights we are denied in this country because we are denied civil marriage. Barb in Flagstaff, AZ My partner and I have a half-inch-thick folder of legal documents including wills, durable power of attorney, and advance directives. We are also registered domestic partners in our state (Washington), which by law assures us rights in hospital visitation and medical decision making. The problem is that you can’t carry this file of documents around at all times. If we were to experience an emergency outside our state (we travel often), we could easily run into any of the situations you mention. We do our best to be prepared, but it sickens me that something like this could ever happen to us. Even in our home state, an emergency medical decision could be complicated by an uniformed medical worker (I would certainly hope that a medical worker who disapproves of homosexuality wouldn’t intentionally interfere in an emergency situation regarding partners making medical decisions or visitation, but it likely does happen). Thank you for bringing more attention to this issue. Another word about health care proxies. Every adult unmarried person should have one, and even some married people. With rare exception it is absolutely the best way to ensure that your wishes will be carried out if you are incapacitated. While living wills are a start, there is no way such a document can forsee every little twist that inevitably occurs during an illness. You need the human element, with its face-to-face communication and the judgement of someone you trust during a crisis. NOT some doctor, nurse or family member trying to figure out what you mean in your living will. Re post #1 You do not  need to go to a lawyer!  A health care proxy needs two regular witnesses only (not the designees), and is (and should be ) free.   It is also the most powerful document you can wield ina NYC hospital. It is not a power of attorney and don’t confuse the two.
I work with health care proxies all day long, do yourselves a favor -talk about ALL your wishes for treatment with your partner and fill out a proxy- It’s all you will need in NY state for healthcare decisions. Remember , it always happens to ‘someone else’ , right? I’m shocked, but not surprised to read about such episodes in 2009. There is a dichotomy between the implications of these events; there is the obvious human rights concern, but this may be the consequence of a larger problem regarding the stigma and fear associated with the medical profession which has intelligent people second-guessing themselves to ensure the safety of their practice and/or position. Regarding carrying around a folder with various legal paperwork… How about you scan the documents into pdf and just carry around a flash memory drive? These wouldn’t have original signatures, but hopefully copies would suffice in the interim until you can produce the originals.  Personally, I’d be very afraid to carry around original legal documents all the time. What if they get lost, damaged, or stolen?? This also effects heterosexual couples.  I’ll never forget how I was treated by hospital staff when I was “just the girlfriend” as opposed to “wife”.  The doors of trust and compassion that flew open amazed me.  Even though I had been with my then boyfriend of 5 years, it was as though I wasn’t seen as trustworthy until I had the veil of marriage to give me legitimacy. Response to #11 I tell my patients to scan any documentation such as this into a computer and then email it to themselves. If they have to go to a hospital, all they need to do is pick up their email from any hospital computer and print out the documentatiion. Not perfect, but better than nothing As an RN, I have seen this happen.  Unfortunately, if one partner is dying, the family will gather and tell the staff not to admit the partner in the relationship in which they disapprove.  Nevermind that the family has not seen this person in years or helped take care of him while he was dying.  And, when he dies, the family may declare the will and all other legal documents null and void and the partner is denied anything and everything they were promised.  That’s why all unions (same-sex or opposite- sex) should be declared as “legal unions” and “marriage” should be approved by the church you are married in, not the state. Thank you for this article. This highlights some of the many inequalities same sex couples face everyday in our supposedly free society. While anti-equality opponents on the Right constantly try to make the point that domestic partnerships are “good enough” these kinds of stories provide clear and irrefutable proof that this is just not so. The Civil Rights Movement needs to push these kinds of true life stories to the forefront of our national dialogue. Seeing committed men and women who have been together for years and are raising (or have raised) children denied these basic legal protections should make it much more difficult for anyone but the most dedicated bigots to speak out against equality and justice for homosexuals. I am a financial planner, and I register all my clients’ legal documents with an online provider who will store and fax them to any hospital in an emergency.  One such company is Docubank.  Having those documents available 24 hours a day like that gives peace of mind.  On another note, one of my same sex clients died recently of an aneurysm.  It took only four hours for him to pass away.  His same sex partner could not even order the death certificate.  The deceased man’s mother had to do it.  These stories don’t seem to be getting told.  There is no substitute for legal marriage. I put our healthcare proxy forms on a small “thumb” drive and carry it with us whenever we travel. Yes, a proxie can be anyone, relative, friend or neighbor.  ..Just fill out the form. You do not have to state any relationship. Too bad that in most of these situations, a legal power of attorney or health care proxy WAS signed and WAS presented to the hospital. “Langbehn had power of attorney for Pond, meaning that Pond had appointed Langbehn as her lawful agent to make medical decisions for her if she became unable to do so.  Langbehn claims that the hospital ignored the power of attorney, which is a violation of state law and the hospital’s written policies. ”  //www.probatelawyerblog.com/2009/02/power-of-attorney-lawsuit-and-gay-rights.html In other words, in spite of creating a legal document to overcome any potential discrimination, due to lack of gay marriage in Florida, these women were penalized for being gay. Do you all get it now? FROM TPP — Excellent link. Such a sad story. Here’s an excerpt. Jancie Langbehn was a life partner of 39-year-old Lisa Marie Pond for 17 years, until Pond fell into a coma and died at the Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami.  When this happened, Langbehn understandably wanted to be at Pond’s side. But, according to her lawsuit, the hospital wouldn’t allow it.  She asked every doctor and other hospital employee she saw to let her in the room, or at least be consulted about Pond’s condition.  They refused.  Pond died in February, 2007.  For the eight hours that Pond was in the hospital, Langbehn and the couple’s four adopted children claim they weren’t allowed to spend time with Pond or receive updates about her medical decision.  Langbehn says that the hospital’s refusal to give her this information interfered with her ability to decide whether or not to consent to surgery and make other important end-of-life decisions for Pond. Whether or not you believe in gay rights, there is an aspect to this case that is especially troubling, if the claims filed by Langbehn’s attorney are true.  Langbehn had power of attorney for Pond, meaning that Pond had appointed Langbehn as her lawful agent to make medical decisions for her if she became unable to do so.  Langbehn claims that the hospital ignored the power of attorney, which is a violation of state law and the hospital’s written policies.  Certainly, a tragic case.  The Langbehn-Pond family lived in Washington state and only visited Florida for a cruise.  Pond suffered a sudden aneurysm and died unexpectedly, while she was so young. Before my husband and I got married, three times I directed the hospital that he and only he had authorization to my records (and I excluded specific blood relatives), signed all the necessary documents, etc.  Every time I went back, a relative was listed as the person to be contacted (even though I had explicitly excluded her), and my fiance’s name had disappeared from the records. These problems encouraged us to get married.  We discussed at length the problems that gay couples must face.  When it really comes down to it, it’s time for everyone to recognize that the government is in charge of civil contracts, including marriage as it has been constructed in today’s society.  Perhaps the solution is for the government to strip straight couples of basic rights, like social security and spousal health insurance and rights to visit in the hospital. Then maybe you’d see change. Odd that traditional marriage advocates have had nothing to say on this.  Then again, there position is based on what they consider the religious sanctity of marriage, where as this, in my opinion is one of the core issues facing same sex couples that could be solved by legalizing same sex marriage. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. Advertisement