Advertisement By JAMES GORMANDEC. 3, 2013
 New surfaces make water bounce, faster. Researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Boston University have found a new clue to staying dry, and it has to do with time and texture. James C. Bird, now of Boston University, and Kripa K. Varanasi at M.I.T., and their colleagues, were considering the problem of icing, which is a version of getting wet, and they decided to focus on the time a water drop stays in contact with a surface. As they report in the Nov. 21 issue of Nature, there is a maximum amount of time a water drop can touch frozen material before it freezes and sticks, causing all sorts of problems for wings and machinery, for starters. They tested ways to shorten the amount of contact time, and recorded the tests with high-speed video, which they analyzed. A smooth surface might seem most likely to repel water, but they found that a rough surface, with ridges, for example, worked better. Advertisement The key is the way a water drop changes shape and bounces off material that has been treated to make it super water-repellent. The drop flattens into a pancake, then recollects itself and bounces up.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Ridges broke up the drops, and the smaller droplets re-formed and bounced away up to 40 percent quicker than the larger drops. Advertisement With refinements, Dr. Varanasi said they hope to be able to cut the contact time by 80 percent. If it can then be adapted for industrial uses, it could benefit wind turbines, other kinds of machines, and even the fashion industry. After their discovery, the scientist looked to nature to see if plants and animals had evolved the same trick. And they had. Although the lotus leaf is often thought of as highly water-repellent, nasturtiums did better, with a rougher surface. And the morpho butterfly has wings that bounce water off the same way. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »