Arthritis sufferers are routinely targeted by the $20 billion supplement industry, which has introduced more than 800 purported remedies for arthritis in recent years. With so many different products promising relief, it’s tough to know which are worth trying. This month, American Family Physician, a medical journal, offers some guidance. A new review article sifts through the research to determine which supplements really work. The review article’s top pick — glucosamine sulfate — is typically derived from crustacean shells. Unlike many products sold by the supplement industry, this one has been widely studied. According to the authors, researchers at Creighton University in Omaha, glucosamine has been the subject of more than 20 randomized controlled trials involving over 2,500 patients.   The findings have been inconsistent, however, likely because of varying formulations and study methods. The research does show that the type of glucosamine matters. Studies using a product called Dona consistently showed benefits for arthritis sufferers, the authors note, while glucosamine hydrochloride formulations have not performed as well. “The evidence supports the use of glucosamine sulfate for modestly reducing osteoarthritis symptoms and possibly slowing disease progression,” the authors write. “However, there isn’t enough evidence to recommend the use of other glucosamine formulations.” The evidence for another popular supplement, chondroitin, is inconsistent, as well. The supplement, made from cow cartilage, often is sold in combination with glucosamine. The study authors find little evidence that the combination is more effective than glucosamine sulfate alone. Another promising supplement reviewed in the study is SAMe, which stands for S-adenosylmethionine. In one recent study, SAMe was compared with the anti-inflammatory drug Celebrex. During the first month of treatment, Celebrex users did better; after two months of use, the authors note, there was no difference in pain relief between the two agents.  SAMe appears to have fewer gastrointestinal side effects than most anti-inflammatory drugs, but it can cause headache and insomnia, among other side effects, and has the potential to interact with antidepressants and other drugs. SAMe can also be expensive: the authors note that a one-month supply typically costs $60 to $120. By comparison, glucosamine ranges from $9 to $35 monthly. But the biggest downside of SAMe is that product quality is inconsistent. “Products on store shelves may contain little or none of the active ingredients,” the researchers write. One solution is to buy SAMe in a form called butanedisulfonate salt, which is more stable. The report also covers the research on MSM, devil’s claw, turmeric and ginger, but concludes there isn’t enough evidence to support their use.  If you’re interested in trying supplements to relieve arthritis pain, it’s worth reading the full article, which is free. It contains useful charts listing the supplements with notes on the quality of the science backing them. For the report, click here. Comments are no longer being accepted. TPP,  Thanks for the article and the link to the original publication.  When I consider taking a supplement, a factor I always consider, in addition to the touted benefits, is whether there are potential adverse effects.  Is there any literature discussing adverse effects for any of the arthritis supplements (other than SAMe which you mentioned above, and what we learned recently about Celebrex)?  Science Editor
//www.polijam.com
Your Guide to News Around the Web I am wondering how to evaluate brands.  Would using consumer review services be helpful?  I do not know of any company that tests all brands.  Some sites like Shopping.com or NutritionalTree.com have a lot of reviews of consumers.  They may have bias in them, but they are better than nothing, I suppose. The authors note the problem with quality and instability of SAM-e. The molecule is quite unstable on the shelf and changes its chiral structure from the active (S,S) to the inactive (R,S). Tobis et al in their osteoarthritis study using SAM-e also noted that SAM-e was inactive when the chiral percentages of (S,S) fell below 50%. The consumer, today at least, has no way of knowing if the expensive SAM-e he/she is purchasing contains any of the active (S,S) isomer since this information has not been required. However, after June, 2008, FDA requires the purity of the active ingredient to be noted on the label. Consumers may well be surprised to learn how little of the active ingredient, that is, (S,S) SAM-e, they are actually buying.  The best salt of SAM-e is butanedisulfonate but it too is not particularly stable on the shelf. However, this salt is US patent protected until Feb 6, 2008. We should finally start seeing some high quality SAM-e on the shelves. It remains to be seen, however, if the largest supplier of SAM-e in the US will be using the butanedisulfonate salt in the highest purity of  the active ingredient (S,S) SAM-e. I have used glucosamine sulfate and chondritin for almost 30 years to help offset the effects of bad knees acquired from skiing. I value it as a useful supplement. I’ve never had any gastrointestinal reactions.
Octogenerian in Texas turmeric not tumeric This is the corrupt medical industry’s attempt to (yet again) dismiss effective, side-effects-free, natural supplements.  The Glucasomine/chondroitin supplement does work, as do other natural remedies, tried and tested for thousands of years.  It is the American medical industry’s expensive, counterproductive, and debilitating drugs, particularly steroids in all their forms, that do not work.  Europe has a far more open-minded approach to glucasomine, not to mention other natural remedies.  I myself have been taking glucasomine for two years, and can vouch for its efficacy.  Of course, no American medical practitioner would ever admit its worth.  This is yet another whitewashing study, refuting actual experience.  The last thing the pharmaceutical industry in this country needs is to validate the worth of time-honored remedies, based on natural ingredients, that are not harmful to the body, unlike all Western medication.  So this is the Times propagandizing on behalf of corrupt Western medical practice yet again. It’s ‘turmeric’ NOT ‘tumeric’! How could this get past editors? I am a 61-year-old person, normal weight, who has osteoarthritis in my hands and my neck.  I have been taking glucosamine hydrochloride plus MSM 1500 mg. daily for five years.  I suspended taking it for several months to see if there was a difference.  I do notice that pain is diminished when I am taking this product.  I also take a prescription anti-inflammatory, go to physical therapy weekly for my neck, and walk 1-2 miles daily.  I also find it helpful to have a results-oriented rheumatologist who is willing to help you try a variety of therapies and anti-inflammatories.  All said, I may look for a product that is glucosamine sulfate rather than the glucosamine hydrochloride for even better results. Pam I find sulphasalazine extremely helpful with my rheumatoid arthritis. As a hand therapist in occupational therapy I often have patients who suffer from arthritis come into my clinic asking me about the efficacy of the latest fad in the treatment of rhheumatalogical complaints. I usually inform them dspite what they may have heard or read on the internet or health food store that there is simply not enough evidence backed by solid research that could justify their spending an inordinante amount of money or time in this or that supplement or apparatus. Many of my patients are astonished to hear that the FDA does not oversee the supplement or vitamin industry like they do the pharmacitical industry, and that as a consequence the vitamin pushers or health faddest are able to make unjustified or even fanciful claims about the latest product which may offer them the opportunity for the highest returns.
  I think that one of the areas I’am hoping the new Congress will look into is the swindle that is being perpetuated on some of our most fragile  citizens who maybe desperate for a cure to their perhaps uncurable condition by these often fly-by-night health faddest and vitamin pushers…. One suggestion for consumers is to look for supplements that have the “USP” verified stamp on the label. That means that content of the active ingredient in the supplement has been confirmed by testing methods outlined by the United States Pharmacopiea. It’s an independent organization which oversees the testing methods used in the characterization of pharmaceuticals; they have expanded to include testing the active ingredients (eg. Ca2+ in calcium tablets) in many supplements. I’m not affiliated with the USP in any way; I’m a chemist in the biotech industry. I always look for this label on any supplement that I purchase for personal use. The problem with reviews like this one is that in trying to be all-inclusive in their scope, they bypass looking at each individual study critically.  The authors tout the supplement Dona as being clearly helpful.  What they do not mention is that every study looking at Dona was run by the manufacturers of Dona.  Every independent study performed on glucosamine has been negative.  But if you’ve got the thousand bucks yearly to spare, hey . . . From TPP — Excellent point. Additionally, while glucosamine generally costs “between 9 and 35 dollars monthly,” not so for Dona, which costs between 60 and 100 bucks monthly. Thank you for a nice summary and for providing the link to the original article. Caution to readers. If you try even the remedies with solid clinical trials behind them, they don’t work for everyone; nothing does. If you keep reading the comments in these blogs, I’m sure you’ll find testimonials extolling the virtures of many untested products. Please resist the temptation to try these, as one person’s or several peoples’ experience, no matter how dramatic, is not scientific evidence. Without such evidence, it is just as likely that sugar pills would provide the same results. Lots of people give glucosamine/chondroitin to their arthritic dogs, and it works wonders. They use the powdered kind that comes in gelatin capsules, and sprinkle it over their food. Works well on people too. It fixed my wear-and-tear arthritis and now I take a capsule every couple of days just for maintenance. I feel sorry for people who suffer drug side effects unnecessarily. A few years ago I was able to buy SAM-e with the addition of the l,4 butanedisulfonate ingredient, but after trying for a few hours to find a source  on the Internet  I had no success. Lots of SAM-e available but not with this ingredient. I may be walking through a minefield here, but comments such as “works wonders for arthritic dogs,”
“I can vouch for its efficacy,” and “no American medical practitioner would admit its worth” not very useful. In twenty years of medical practice, I have seen supplements touted for their miracle effects come and go.  It seems as if every year, a new miracle cure comes on the market.  The US Pharma industry certainly is guilty of opportunistic profiteering at the expense of patients, but the supplement industry is just as guilty.  At the same time, we’ve also seen supposedly ground-breaking drugs come and go, with Vioxx being one of several memorable disasters that have fallen short of its promise and caused patients harm. Clearly, what is needed is proper testing and review of supplement claims.  Millions of vulnerable patients suffering from a variety of ailments are desperate to try something, anything.
And they’ll spend their hard-earned money on something they view as potentially useful, yet untested and, sometimes, harmful. To state that the American medical establishment is closed to the value of supplements is unfair and untrue.  Just as they scour the internet for answers to their medical problems, patients must also do their research to locate physicians (and other healthcare practitioners, let’s not leave physical therapists, chiropractors, acupuncturists, herbal medicine practitioners and naturopaths, to name a few) who are informed, motivated and will support intelligent choices in health care, even if they are not mainstream.  Such practitioners exist. Why both Ive had the problems all over my body since 1983 and it was worse on pain killing tablets. To much exercise agravates the problem.
Take life easy, only take tablets when neccessary, have a stress free life.
Until a cure is found don’t waste your money or these drugs and medication. If they found a cure osteoarthritis more people could work and older ou get less likely treetment would be given. Spend your money on an hobby. I was facing total knee replacement due to advanced osteoarthritis in 2004. I put a unloading brace on and took 1500 mg glucosamine hydrochloride with 1500 mg MSM. Took brace off since September 2006. No pain what so ever. Cost about $18 for 100 day supply. re: glucosamine/chondroitin  forget the pills — go liquid (at least 1500 mg daily), which is much more concentrated. my mother’s orthopedic surgeon says, “50% of patients ask about it, 50% of those who try it get tremendous relief.”  not bad results, statistically. I have taken Glucosamine-Sulfate and Chondroitan for some time now to alleviate the pain of a damaged knee meniscus.  For me it has worked. I base that on the observation that stopping the treatment will lead back to more pain.  Most important,  I did what could be called a placebo controlled test.  I switched the type of pill I was taking – from a tablet to a gelcap – and the pain returned even while I was on the gelcap. When I switched back to the tablet, the pain resolved in a couple of weeks.  The gelcap composition creates a gum like product which is not absorbed by the body very well. So I did a little searching and this lead me to find that dosage form can be important and that liquid dosing is preferable to solids.  So I have switched to a liquid form and have had good results. All that said, there is still something a bit odd about the results of trials with glucosamine and my own experience.  The biggest single oddity surrounds the metabolism of glucosamine mixtures. The pharmacokinetics of glucosamine metabolism is very straightforward: Glucosamine is rapidly cleared by what is called first pass metabolism in the liver – so that 1500 mg dose  goes form your gut directly to the liver and is degraded. Only trivial amounts ends up in your joints.  Also, your body is constantly making glucosamine.  Yes that amount declines as you age, but the amount still swamps what you ingest in a pill.  So how does taking glucosamine work?    Likewise, chondroitan is not absorbed at all but is instead degraded in the stomach. So while there are some clinical trials and at least my and other anecdotal observations, one wonders exactly how this all can be working.  It also points to the pivotal flaw of most nutritceutical claims: the mechanism by which the compound works may not be what people believe.  Indeed that simple belief may be all that is at work.  Placebos are very powerful! I’ve used several combinations of glucosamine/chondroitin compounds and finally settled on a time-release version that I take right before daily workouts, long hikes or SHORT weight session. Seems to make a big difference in effect if you work it into your system naturally through stretching and massage.  I’ve had an annoying arthritic tenderness in my shoulder and similar weakness in my left knee for decades. Both have diminished in pain and strengthened markedly in recent months. I’ve also got lots of arthritis in the family. (I’m 56.) Other big factor — maybe more important — is taking regular fish oil/ Omega 3 supplements. They say Eskimos have little incidence of arthritis. I give gluco and condro some props for all this. It may not work for you, but what if… Caveat emptor, of course. Certainly there are many supplements and formulations out there (for rheumatoid conditions, connective tissue disorders, fibromyalgia, etc.) that are: 1) playing upon fashionable media claims; 2) marketed by well-intended medical professionals, or 3) a combination of the two. Still, when one is suffering greatly for months or years on end, Hope and a little experimentation–especially if founded on some personal reading and research–is preferable to despair. Sometimes improvement is brought about by simple attention to one’s problem or condition (changing lifestyle/dietary habits, etc.), and even by that useful placebo effect. In the end, however, the most important rule may be that each individual is unique (re chemistry and emotional/physical makeup), and each attempt at addressing one’s ailments a step in the process of healing. Taking action–and responsibility for one’s health–may be the most important step of all.
(the writer is a mental health professional) What about cetyl-myristoleate?  (I think that’s the correct spelling)  It wasn’t mentioned in this article.
I have been taking a combination glucosamine-chondroitin-cetyl pill for a short time for osteoarthritis.  Can’t say yet if it works or not. Tara is a bright lady but she sort of missed the details in this one. The problem with this article is that it fails to mention several important points. Dona’s studies are done (directly or indirectly) by the pharmaceutical company who makes this product. The studies are well-designed. The glucosamine HCL studies were not well-designed and are loaded with reasons why they would yield false null results. There are no direct comparisons of the two forms of glucosamine in human studies. In basic science studies, G-S and G-HCL performed the same. In the NIAMS GAIT (Study) of which I’m on the oversight committee, G-HCl was positive for the primary outcome at month 4, but this was not published. Also, G-HCl+ Chondroitin blew away Celebrex, in fact the supplement combo was the only treatment that met all criteria for “passing”: positive outcomes, clinically meaningful treatment effect and statistically significant effect sizes. Since Celebrex did not meet these criteria, GAIT is actually void and cannot be used against the supplements (but is being used this way). You will be hearing a lot more about the problems with GAIT and how this study is being used incorrectly by opponents of the supplements. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. Advertisement