New parents take the time to baby proof their kitchen cabinets, coffee tables and other risky areas in the home. But what about baby proofing your bed? My Well column about bed sharing, which appeared in yesterday’s Science Times, notes that only about 13 percent of parents admit to sleeping next to their child. The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that parents sleep close to their infant, but not in the same bed. Even so, some studies suggest that between 50 percent and 75 percent of babies spent at least some moments during their infancy in a parent’s bed. Often, it’s not intentional. An exhausted mother will fall asleep nursing her baby, or parents will comfort a sick child in the middle of the night by placing the baby in the bed between them. Because parents can become “accidental” co-sleepers, every parent should safety-proof their bed, even if they don’t plan on sharing their bed with a baby, says James. J. McKenna, director of the University of Notre Dame’s Mother-Baby Behavioral Sleep Laboratory. “In many ways, there isn’t a single sleep location for babies,” notes Dr. McKenna. “Sometimes babies sleep alone, sometimes they sleep with parents. My approach is to provide as much information as possible for minimizing risks and maximizing safety whatever the sleep environment baby and parents find themselves in.” Bed sharing has been branded unsafe, largely due to a 1999 report from the United States Consumer Products Safety Commission that concluded that 515 babies had died over an eight-year period while sharing a bed with parents. Critics say the report is flawed because it failed to compare the risks with other sleeping arrangements, including solitary crib sleeping and sleeping in playpens, which have also been implicated in accidental deaths.  Despite the debate, the report clearly showed that adult beds have structural risks that should be changed or removed once a baby enters the house. Here’s the way to safety proof an adult bed: Babies should never sleep alone on an adult bed, even one that has been safety proofed. And babies shouldn’t sleep with siblings. Toddlers and older children can kick, knock, push or lay on top of the baby. If you want to sleep with your baby but already have a toddler in your bed, be sure to position yourself or another parent between the child and baby. Another solution is to purchase a co-sleeper that attaches to the bed. Parents who smoke or drink or use drugs should take extra precautions so they don’t fall asleep with baby. This includes parents who have taken over-the-counter medications that might make them drowsy. Studies clearly show that kids who sleep with smokers are at higher risk than solitary sleepers, as are kids who sleep with parents who have used alcohol or drugs. And no matter where a baby sleeps, he or she should always be put down on his back. Babies who sleep on their backs are at lower risk for sudden infant death syndrome than babies who sleep on their tummies. . Comments are no longer being accepted. I know that we are supposed to put babies on their backs to sleep, but what about babies that refuse to sleep on their backs? My daughter slept on her back until she was a month old and then stopped. She would scream until she was put on her stomach and then would finally sleep. Sometimes, babies do seem to have a preference that goes against what parents are told to do. Tara, thanks so much for writing about this and relaying your personal experience.  Our daughter slept with us every night until she was about seven or eight years old.  We rarely told anyone as such revelation frequently met with scoffing disapproval.  At the time, I was working very long hours as a young lawyer and found that laying side by side with my daughter while we slept was incredibly beautiful and bonding.  Every child is different, however, and our son — who is far more independent — loved sleeping on his own right from birth.  Our daughter is away at college now, and you could not find a mother and daughter who are closer than we.  I believe the value of this experience to our relationship has been immeasurable.  (My husband and I have been married for 23 years, and we are no worse the wear for having done this either.)  To my friends who have considered a family bed, I have provided my full support (subject, as always with children, to safety concerns)! Very interesting piece, and sure to get a bunch o’ comments.  My own ‘family bed’ experience is that I was a young nursing mother who played it by ear.  Sometimes that meant babies slept with me, and other times they slept on their own.  All my children, including a cleft lip & palate baby who wasn’t nursed, wanted to sleep w/me (or me w/them) at some point in their lives, and I complied.  Perhaps my comfort level had to do with the fact that I experienced that sort of welcome from my own parents.  When my dad was in Vietnam, all us children would make our way to my mother’s bed during the night.  There were 6 of us at the time.  When dad came home, the practice continued, though there wasn’t enough room for us in the bed, the goal was to be in the same room.  Eventually the practice drifted away but my parents sensibly knew that we needed that closeness and to force a separation on us prematurely would have been emotionally difficult.  By the way, my parents managed to conceive two more children (they just moved to our empty beds!)
I think most parents can handle instinctive parenting and wish more people/docs/grandparents/well-intentioned outsiders would keep their opinions to themselves. Re sleeping with toddlers – I still don’t understand how the parents have sex with a child in the bed. I have a child for the first 6 months he slept in a cot at the base of our bed,  but on his own mattress,  so any jostling on our bed didn’t disturb him, and vica versa.  But as the child grows older,  and my friends report on their 5,6,8 and even 10 year olds creeping back into the marital bed most nights – how do the parents have sex?  I think privacy in the bedroom is important for the marriage.  Of course if the child is sick or upset,  the child should always feel that they can go to their parents,  but they are talking about habitual co-sleeping and I find it difficult to imagine how a sex life would survive that.


Eds note: A lot of people raise this issue, but I would remind you that maintaining a close relationship with your spouse is difficult for any parent of young children, whether or not they are physically sleeping in your bed. Lots of parents I know whose kids sleep in their own rooms still have a difficult time finding enough time and/or privacy to have sex. When they do, it’s not because they’ve banned kids from the bedroom. It’s usually because the kids are out of the house at soccer practice or on a sleepover. My former colleague Rachel Zimmerman at the Wall Street Journal wrote a great story on this topic a while back called Researchers Target Toll Kids Take On Parents Sex Lives. Check it out. Thanks for the comment– tpp The fact that so many co-sleeping parents feel obliged to conceal the fact may have less to do with what pediatricians think than with what judges and lawyers think.  I am a family lawyer, and was personally involved in two cases in which co-sleeping was a major factor in a mother’s loss of custody of her child.  I have never met a judge who did not think co-sleeping was immoral, creepy, or pathological.  I would strongly advised the closeted co-sleepers who read this to stay in the closet. I would just like to share my experience of sharing a family bed with our son. My wife and I had decided upon “Your Baby and Child” by Penelope Leach as our child rearing resource. She endorses the family bed. So we adopted that model. In addition, nightly, until my son was 5, I would rock him to sleep on my shoulder in an old rocking chair of ours.
When he was 5, we took him to a separate room of the house and said, this will be your room and we would like you to help us decorate it. We did this together and of course included a bed. We told him that this was his room and his bed whenever he wanted to use it. One night, after saying good night, he simply went to that room and slept. And he slept there from then on. He certainly knew that we were not pushing him away from us. We only said, this is your room and you may sleep here whenever you want to. He also knew that he could come and sleep with us whenever he wanted to. I am not sure of all the dynamics of the situation at that time, of what he knew from playmates or had seen on Mr.Rogers. But I do know that to this day he can sleep anywhere under almost any circumstance and as they say, sleep like a log. I think that basically, when he is asleep, or maybe even when he climbs into bed, he feels secure and worry free. Our babies slept with us and it seemed to be a good arrangement. My wife nursed and I changed diapers. We added a crib next to the bed when number two was close to arriving, and changed to a single bed by the time number three arrived. So from left to right it was Mother, baby, father, child, child. And there were two or three times when a young one came over to me and said “Daddy, I don’t feel good. Barf” And I was lying there with my chest awasy. Poke the wife “Get me a towel, {Lyle, Mike, Ben} just threw up..”
  Five hundred and some babies died, and how many million didn’t die? Or died quietly in their crib… Thanks for your writeup. Excellent piece. The “Sleeping with a child is like sleeping in a washing machine” quote is the best quote I have found since my son was born. I crackled up so bad. After birth, my wife was re-admitted back to hospital because of complications from a CS. He slept on my chest all night. It took a lot of hardwork for him to leave my chest. We bought a $5000 bed when we were pregnant, on which he has never slept a minute. He will never sit in his bed to play or do anything, let alone sleep. He is 21/2 years old now. He is our bed partner, and I guess, will be for a long time. The times we discuss getting him out of bed is when there has been sexual frustration and pent-up emotional desires between us, but we end up forsaking our needs for his comforts. Its a big problem on our marriage but we see this as a sacrifice to make for his emotional development. To make matters worse, my wife cannot wake up for sex once she is asleep, because while putting the child to bed, she sleeps off as well. She wants a second child but I tell her sex is the only acceptable way for us to conceive. How do we conceive when we are not sexually active? Anyway, thanks for your article. I will forward it to friends and colleagues. Eds note: Thanks for this. I so appreciate all the reader comments on this topic. And not to go too far afield in a family blog, but really, since when did sex have to happen in the bed at night??? tpp I used to crawl in with my father, my parents had separate beds in the 40’s and early 50’s, on cold winter nights and was never refused.  I still have fond memories of this arrangement. I slept with my children as well when they were infants and rotated to the youngest as a new child arrived. As they grew older we had no problem moving them to their own room and beds. All the studies aside I think sleeping with infants is rewarding for all concerned even with the occasional wet diaper in your face in the morning. From a child’s perspective, my parents have and always have had an active sex life. As children (there are 3 daughters and one late in life son), we were always welcomed in our parents bedroom. However, I remember many nights going to their room to crawl in bed, and finding the door locked. If I was sick or anything was wrong I would knock or call for them, but a locked door meant, mommy and daddy are having private time. (Note: the door was never locked all night, just long enough for them to be intimate and undisturbed). I think this was a great policy. I’ve enjoyed watching and knowing my parents love for one another. I would add that “where there is a will, there’s a way.” Sex on the sofa, in the kitchen, on the back stairs, in the spare bedroom, in the back yard. Sex happens if you want it to. Having little ones has forced DH and I to be more creative and not to detriment of our relationship. Certainly being open to children in your bed means sacrificing doing things when, how, and where you might be the most comfortable but isn’t that what parenting across the board is all about? Sacrificing our own agenda (for a season) for the well being of another? Sure a million kids sleep with their parents and nothing happens, but all it takes is one kid to have a problem. If that is your kid, it is devastating. Please listen to the studies this time. Don’t sleep with your infant. Put them in a safe crib on their backs. The Pediatricians are recommending this for a reason. Eds note: But this is the point — kids get hurt or die in cribs too but you don’t see anyone saying ban the crib. (They used to call SIDS “crib death.”) But it wasn’t the crib that was the problem — it was the position of the baby or soft bedding etc. I just think parents need to have all the information about making every potential sleeping surface in their house safe. There is no data to suggest that beds, when properly safety-proofed, are any more or less risky sleeping surfaces than cribs. HOwever there are data showing that kids who sleep in close proximity to their parents have a lower rate of SIDS than solitary sleepers in another room, according to Dr. McKenna. tpp Thank you for these 2 articles. As a physician, I have counseled plenty of parents on the “Back to Sleep” policy, and never even considered that the baby wasn’t going to be in a bassinet or crib. As a new nursing mom, I now see the world through totally different eyes. My hours away from my daughter are long enough, so why not let night time be a time when she can be reassured that I’m there for her? We have a very nice crib as a side car to our bed, so when she needs a 2am snack or a hug, I can just reach over and pull her closer. It can be a wonderful, loving experience, without any of the pathologic deviance alluded to by the previous poster. Not to mention it’s just plain easier than getting out of bed to get her. I did not co-sleep except on rare occasions with a sick infant.  Just not my thing, and the kids fortunately slept well on their own. So I have two questions for those who do: Are there any “closet” co-sleepers out there who keep it to themselves because they do not wish to be associated with those militant co-sleepers who are uncharitable to the rest of us? And: What if the kid sleeps better this way but the parents don’t?  The Health section this week discusses how unhealthy bad sleep is.  You want to benefit your kid, but you have to be healthy, be able to drive safely, work productively, be reasonably pleasant to the kids, etc.  How do you decide?

Eds note: I think, as an earlier reader noted, parents should be allowed to trust their instincts, whatever they are. As for how you decide? I think you have to take care of yourself first otherwise you will be a lousy parent. I always slept fine with a kid in my bed — better in some ways because I’m a worrier and liked having her close. But lots of people don’t sleep well at all if the child is next to them. My pediatrician always told me that any choice I made was fine as long as I was happy with it. He’s a saint, in my book. –tpp I thought this was a very interesting column and the statistical information was very interesting.  I really think you could have taken this further however. I think Marian Neudel hit the point exactly when she said family court judges often regard co-sleeping as “immoral, creepy, or pathological.” I think this represents a sea change over attitudes that were prevalent, even in this country, not very long ago. It is probably not too much of a stretch to suggest that through most of human history, the majority of families lived in one or two room homes in which the entire family slept in one room.  One only needs to consider the tenement photos that Jacob Riis took in this country in the 1890’s to realize that when a large family lives in a single room, it could not likely grow so large unless at some point people were having sex while non-participating family members slept, pretended to sleep or simply paid no attention. Today such conduct would be considered reprehensible in the US, though it likely continues anywhere there is extreme poverty. Mind you, I am not suggesting such conduct was healthy, or should be returned too (though I wonder if those children had fewer sexual hangups than children who grow up in today’s pristine and sterile home environments).  Unfortunately, I think such matters tend to be more the subject of quasi-religious morality and not readily subject to quantifiable analysis.  So the question really is, historically, at what point did such a radical change enter our lives. And health issues aside, how do co-sleepers deal with the charge of closet pedophilia when all they are doing is bonding with their children? Re: #5 – it is a sad and sick commentary that judges, in particular, seem so obsessed with sick sex that they do not recognize healthy, non-perverted human contact between parents and children. Maybe it is the last vestiges of a generational gap – maybe they just see too much sickening behavior in their courtrooms.  WE complain that our communities are falling apart, that people are meaner, that children and parents are too distant from each other, and yet our judges demonize simple and necessary human affection. We KNOW that children need lots of hugs to thrive. The babies in Milosevic’s orphanages died not just from lack of basic care, food, etc,   they died from lack of loving human contact, and the ones that didn’t die suffer terribly. I appreciated the author’s approach to make the family bed, practically, safer and more kid-friendly. Is it a question of thinking people are closet pedophiles, or of thinking people are not letting the children mature properly, i.e. prolonging what seems to many to be infantile behavior? Thank you Tara Parker-Pope for this wonderful and true article.  Your Well section is a place where I feel cosseted–and this open and lovely story confirms the caring vibes are real. My three children were breast-fed, and the crib, with its unsavory bars, was was seldom used!  But although sleeping with a nursing infant seemed  natural and healthy to me, my own mother had a fit when she found out, and threatened to turn me in to Child Protective Services.  I managed to calm her down, but never got around to revealing the truth to my mother-in-law. My son preferred to sleep on his stomach for much of his infancy, and at 18 months, he sleeps with my husband in our huge king size bed. I have chosen to sleep on a matress in the living room, since I am an irritatingly light sleeper and don’t sleep if I hear any noise such as my husband’s snoring or my son move even the slightest bit. We live in a very small one bedroom in New York City, and to a lot of people unfamiliar to NYC lifestyles regarding space, our situation may sound pretty uncivilized, but it’s more common than one may think, and it’s what is working for us at this moment in time, and we’re doing just fine with it. Our son is and has always been healthy and shows no signs whatsoever of dependency on us being there to go to sleep, and my husband and I are as close as we’ve always been. I think people are too quick to be judgemental when it comes to parenting styles, and what works for one child or household may not work for another. With so much information out there and do’s and don’ts and warnings, and fear in general, I can understand why people react the way they do. I had to put down all the books and go with my instincts and heart. My mom explained to me that the reason she slept in the same bed with all of her children, is because she was paranoid we would die in her sleep. Apparently, she was so scared of this, she would sleep with her hand lightly resting on our chests, so she would know instantly if we stopped breathing. I often shared my parents bed when I was afraid, but the bathroom floor was more my deal when I was sick. I stopped sharing their bed when I was about eight, and I’m alright with that. My little sister, though, who is now almost twelve years old, still goes to sleep with out mother. I am not very happy with the continuation of this behavior, because now my sister has become very dependent on my mother’s presence to make her feel safe. It doesn’t help that my mom works in the same school building my sister attends. My sister goes into nervous fits and usually has an asthma attack if my mom is not at hand. So, really, it can be nurturing, and it could be detrimental. I guess it depends on how far you let it go, and the mindset of the child. Fine article, Tara, you really cover the co-sleep circumstances out there. My wife and I are not closet co-sleepers and, while we don’t have bumper stickers on our cars proclaiming our reactive co-sleep arrangements with our 5 year old twins we tell the truth if asked. Basically, when nightmares strike or coughs, colds or discomfort trouble one of our children we will climb in bed with them for a few minutes or hours, whatever the circumstances dictate. Occasionally one will join us in our bed as well, which usually prompts the other parent to climb into the unoccupied twin bed in the kids’ room. Though my daughter is a whirling sleeping dervish and has the knee to dad’s kidneys routine down to a science, we both generally find that sleeping with our children is a warm, comforting and relatively restful time. Our children recognize that having mom or dad join them in bed is a privelege and are truly appreciative of our warmth and tenderness. Finally, given that the co-sleeping usually commences three or four hours after they have fallen asleep, we do find time for sex in our own bed without 5 year olds at our sides. I would like to know how you handle nocturnal emissions and morning erections. Dad’s or Junior’s? good story. i wish, however, you might have addressed how single dads might be trying to deal with issues involved with sharing their beds with their 6-year-old daughters. society (and ex-wives, and ex-mothers-in-law) can be quite nasty about such things.


Eds note: I would love to hear from other single dads about this issue. Kids need hugs, cuddles and physical contact with their fathers just as much as they need it from their mothers, but I agree, this can be a difficult area to navigate for men. tpp
 and erotic dreams! Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. Advertisement