What would you give up to live pain free? That’s a choice chronic pain patients have to make every day, and it’s the focus of my Well column in Tuesday’s Science Times.  The column focuses on spinal cord stimulation, an unusual option that many pain patients aren’t aware of. The devices, which are implanted near the spine, are a last resort for patients who haven’t found relief through drugs, procedures and other therapies.  But it comes with a big tradeoff. The device sends electrical impulses to scramble pain signals, but that means users must tolerate a regular buzzing or tingling sensation in their bodies. Has pain affected your life or the life of someone you know? What solutions have you found? And what tradeoffs have you or others been forced to make to cope with pain? Click here to read the complete Well column and then share your stories and comments below. Comments are no longer being accepted. For those with chronic pain, there can be a fine line between being pain free and having clinically significant symptoms related to the pain medications prescribed.  It is important that a patient have a good level of  communication with her physician in assessing  the level of pain as well as the level of symptoms that might be associated with the analgesic medications used.  Constipation, somnolence, and lassitude, among others may be noted.   Making a joint decision with  one’s doctor on how much and what types of medicines are to be used, and reconciling the balance between pain relief and pain medication related symptoms  is paramount. Knowing  the potential side effects of analgesic medications is  important information for the patient to know, as well as  interventions to reduce the incidence of these effects.
When patients keep a diary of when, what type  and how much medication is used, along with what level of symptoms are experienced, and shares this with their physician on a regular basis, it is easier to make  good decisions on how to adjust pain medicines to optimize relief. Greater than 95% of patients with chronic pain can be well managed with non surgical techniques. Good communication between doctor and patient is a must! I have had chronic Lyme disease for over thirty years, most of that time without knowing why I was so ill, fatigued, multi-symptomatic, inflammatory, and in pain. I have been in treatment for Lyme with antibiotics for almost seven years now, and I am vastly better, though not cured. What kept me going for five years earlier in my illness was daily swimming and then stretching–this eased the stiffness, pain, and inflammation until I realized I had become so sensitive to pool chemicals that I was partly treating pain that I was then inducing and then treating the next day. Since then it’s been a combo of easy jogging and yoga stretching, and when I’m not feeling good, which is many days, it’s just some elliptical trainer and then the stretching.  I go to Lyme support meetings and everyone’s on pain drugs, many of them using opiates. I can’t imagine going that far. I do use Tylenol, Imitrex (it helps more than headaches), occasionally other drugs like Gabitril (though I hate its neuro side effects of elided memory and attention). But the core thing is that most of these people at the groups don’t seem to exercise. Let me tell you, if I didn’t have regular movement in my life, and joint-and-muscle-stretching in particular, I couldn’t do anything. I would degenerate.  I did use Celebrex for several years during the initial phase of my Lyme treatment. Treatment for longtime chronic Lyme, for those who don’t know, usually makes the person feel much worse, and for quite a long time, before she gradually begins to feel better. It’s tough to go from having arthritis in just your ankles, wrists and knees some of the time to having arthritis in every joint all the time. From a migraine once a week to a migraine every morning, noon and night. The Celebrex cut the intensity of that down some. The problem with the Celebrex was that before it, I was hypotensive. I’m now hypertensive, I can’t take most of the hypertension drugs, the one drug I can take isn’t doing much for my BP, and my research shows that the drugs don’t even prevent all the damage that hypertension elicits. Clearly it damaged my CV system, and I’m NOT happy. It will cost me much more money and trouble to figure out how to deal with the CV situation I have now. But I don’t know what else I would have done to get through that intensive Lyme treatment period. I now caution people I know to use cox-2 inhibitors as infrequently as possible. I was diagnosed with Rheumatoid Arthritis in 1996 at the age of 41 years old. As the disease progressed I was advised to go on Methotrexate which I didn’t want to do as I was an alcoholic and it is contraindicated and dangerous to consume alcohol on this medication.Nine years later I finally went into Rehab and have been sober for three years at the end of this month and now take methotrexate 10mgms weekly and am in remission and extremely grateful for the pain relief this drug has provided.However at the time I would not give up alcohol to even try this drug . I have suffered chronic pain for over 20 years, I have had 2 fusions in my neck, 2 laminectomies in my lumbar region and have at least 5 more areas that surgery may or may not help.  I am heavily medicated and spend my days stretching and walking my dog.  Sitting is 20 minuet at a time max, exercise is not doable.  My stretching and medications prevent the previous depression.  I also get epidural injections and trigger point injections, everything helps a little, there is just nothing that allows a normal life, yet I still live, it took time to adjust to the medications so that I can read a book or listen to an audible book without losing my place.  A pain pump has been discussed, but my Dr. may move and finding another to take over could be almost impossible. This is an interesting article but I’m concerned that it might be a little misleading. I used to work as a field engineer for a company that is now Boston Scientific that makes a Spinal Cord Stimulator. I don’t own any Boston Scientific stock or work for them – I just want pain patients to feel better. Chronic pain is ugly and these patients need all the help they can get. I saw many cases where the Boston Scientific device worked much better than the Medtronic or ANS devices. The reason is that they developed a new technology that can more accurately direct electricity to the best place on the spinal cord. From what I saw in patients, we got better results with less unwanted “buzzing” than what is shown in this article. I would strongly encourage patients to go to a pain specialist who would consider using the Boston Scientific device. As I said, pain is ugly, and pain specialists can be a real god-send for these patients.

From TPP — The doctors I spoke with said there are no meaningful differences in the devices in terms of efficacy. Also, I’m not aware of any data showing one brand is better than the other. For patients, the issue should be finding the best doctor to treat your pain. I don’t think patients need to get into the business of asking for one brand over another — that is something they should discuss with a doctor and most doctors will use the device they have the most experience with. I’m of two minds on this.  I think, for me, it comes down to how ‘chronic’ or ‘debilitating’ pain will be defined. I had terrible knee pain for years if I tried to get too active.  On the one hand, being able to exercise despite that pain could have helped me to keep off the weight causing it.  On the other hand, certain kinds of pain, especially joint pain, are the only way your body has to say to you, “STOP THAT!”  Had I dulled the pain instead of looking for ways to get active without exacerbating it, I could have seriously hurt myself. I look at something like this, and I think of the family friend whose fibromyalgia makes even walking an excruciating exercise, or the arthritic aunt who is in constant pain, even sitting still, and I think something to mask the pain so they can function on some level is good.  But I would worry, with this, about my brother-in-law trying to find a way to keep playing fast pitch softball despite the pain from old sports injuries (like the near-constant torn rotator cuff of his twenties…).  I’d also worry that people would be more focused on masking or muting their pain than making sure it wasn’t the body saying, “Hey, that thing you’re doing?  Yeah, that one, right now?  It’ll put you in a wheelchair 20 years from now if you don’t cut it out.” Definitely something to be used with caution, and only for people whose pain is preventing normal functionality, not to ‘power through’ pain from healing physical damage and disregard one’s injuries. My late husband was diagnosed with ankalosing (sp?) spondylitis after 10 years of terrible pain and suffering.  About the same time, after I insisted he was dying for nearly 9 years–simply from looking at him and the way children and dogs changed the way they treated him.  He was accused of being an alcohlic, even though he didn’t drink, treated as a drug adict just wanting to get drugs, because his normal, healthy looks went downhill rather rapidly after I first believed he was dying.  We went to doctor after doctor with no help. One time he was hospitalized for five days with some sort of infection (they never found out)and terrible halucinations.  The halucinations came from the infection spreading to his brain.  It took three months until he finally quit halucinating.  A couple of years after that, an emergency room doctor actully took everything seriously and found he had a tumor in his lung.  It turned out to be a grapefruit sized tumor that had made his lung a “bag of infection.”  He lost h is right lung in 1999 and finally got pain treatment from a pain doctor after that.  Eventually, he finally got an interthecal pump implanted and suddenly, I had the husband I lost nearly ten years before that.  Unfotunately, not many months after that, an embolism occured in his remaining lung.  No one thought he would last a week.  After a month in ICU with the staff allowing me to stay beside him the entire time because he was expected to die any moment, he recovered enough to move to a regular hospital room, where I stayed with him day and night for months until his strong will finally gave up and he died.   At the same time, a week and a half before his emoblism, I had two discs removed from my neck, with cadaver bones replacing the missing discs.  Unfortunately, during my husbands hospital stay, I had to literally catch him several times when nurses had the inability to control the patient they made stand up.  I also slept on a hospital cot that had no chucks to keep it from moving and was knocked unconscious for two hours because it moved one night.  It took me two days to realize what had happened to me.  Moreover, the fall caused one cadaver disk to come loose and the it crushed the other one.   I moved very quickly after my husband’s death because I could not stand living in the house we built.  Not long after my pain seemed to explode. I could not find a pain doctor to help me in the new town I moved to and ended up getting a much bigger operation (a huge mistake) in hopes of relieving the pain.  The pain worsened, my surgeon insisted his patients never had pain afer he operated and I felt like killing myself to relieve the pain.  I finally found a good pain doctor and it has taken a couple of years to get my pain under control.  I am considering the interthecal device that was implanted in my husband for the reasons stated above: inablity to concentrate, etc.  Plus, I have not been able to go on with my life due to the pain; muchless, get over the grief I feel over losing my husband (it’s been 4 years now).  I plan to see a psychologist tomorrow for help in that area.   I guess I’m writing about this to let people know that the DEA has scared pain doctors and other doctors so much that they are afraid to effectively deal with the pain their patients feel.  Until the people suffering from chronic pain are given the okay to have a real life through medical intervention, I’m afraid we will all fight these stupid battles for no other reason that we are so misunderstood.  I would love to see all the people suffering frorm chronic pain write to their congressperson about their problems and the DEA.  I hope their family and friends will do the same.  We have enough to fight within the painful circle of our own lives–we don’t need interference from those who cannot imagine what it is like. Amen to Brenda about the Feds- besides ‘typical’ chronic pain from trauma, etc, I have chronic headache syndrome with migraine/cluster/tension headaches. Most docs in the Columbus, Ohio area have left the chronic pain practice. One that is left won’t write any prescriptions. I have been all over the country, tried all sorts of traditional and non-traditional methods (e.g.- acupuncture, Reiki, etc.). None provided a “cure” or even a way to be able to function. I’ve had a “status” migraine for 15 years, and get 5-8 ‘waves’ of migraine every day. I’ve tried going drug free (for 9 months to check against rebound headaches- it didn’t help at all, and just made me even more miserable than usual for the 9 months). I’ve had 5 sinus surgeries, as there is a sinus element involved. Self-hypnosis is generally how I am able to get to sleep at night- keep trying different techniques and doctors until you find what works. When my last doc left (called to Iraq), those left (2) didn’t want me as a patient- I felt they thought I was doc-shopping, even though they knew my previous doctors had: moved, suffered family health set-backs, called up- it didn’t matter. So many think you are drug seeking, until and unless they find out what all I have done and where I have been (forget the “bigs- eg- Diamond, etc.- they all use variations of the same theme, and give you the hard sell). Sign up on the web, and check the European sites- there is a doctor in Europe using induced comas (5 days!) to treat otherwise hopeless cases of all chronic pain, and he is having great success; the closest here is a doctor in Florida, but he is only doing 2 days; hey, docs- save your breath- I know it’s risky, but I would do it in a heartbeat if I could; you could have any limb that you want if it would stop the %$#@! pain. Sleep? What’s that- I haven’t had more than a few hours at a time for years; thank God for my wife- why she puts up with me, I’ll never know, and without her, I would have checked out long ago. Our medical system is too geared for ‘normal’ cases, and woefully unprepared for people like us. Hang in there, folks- and help each other as best as you can. I have had chronic pain for the last two years due to a VATS Pleurodesis, arthritis and terrible scarring in both hands caused by surgeries for carpal tunnel and trigger finger release on all of my fingers except my pinkies. One can indeed become suicidal due to an inability to get relief. I’ve done multiple rounds of PT/OT and due massage and have recently started PT with accupuncture again. I also try very hard to do some stretching excersizes. I am currenlty on pain meds, celebrex, cymbalta and wellbutin for depression. The truth is, even with all of this, there isn’t a day that has gone by in two years that I have been pain free.  Sometimes, the pain is around a 4, a continued burning, throbbing ache. Other times, like today, it’s around an eight. Unfortunately, most days are like today. We CP patients are suffering physically and emotionally and like Brenda said, most doctors have been bullied by the DEA and are afraid to prescribe any narcotics. No one wants to be dependent on any type of medication and most of us know the risk but without proper treatment for pain, our lives are not worth living. I have two grown children and one youngster who I simply can’t do much with because of my conditions. Most days, I can barely walk and I often wake up at night due to pain. I think that I would try just about ANYTHING to at least just get to a three or four pain scale day. We need help. The psycho-social issues of pain need to also be addressed in order to truly make an informed decision about pain management options.  Only looking at medical options without taking the whole person into account results in various complications afterwards, including psychological, financial, and personal. An issue like chronic “white noise”, really deserves in-depth analysis in these areas and more, well beyond just the medical. I have had continous chronic pain for 34 years, from multiple car accidents and health complications.  I was told time and again there was “no cure” and “no options” for the multiple issues I struggled with.  I found whenever I did try somethng (medications or treatments) I usually became worse.  Through many simple everyday changes using lifestyle , mind & spiritual practices, my pain is almost gone, with no surgery.  I am also a profesional clincial social worker who works with chronic pain patients.  I would not advice against such a procedure, but would support and encourage my clients to really look at themselves in a holistic way before making such a decision.  As a Power Over Pain Action Network Leader for Missouri, I am fully aware of the complications people with various pain diagnoses experience.  While this procedure may be a life saver for a few people, I am concerned about the many left behind with complicated dynamics as a result.  Those are the people I work with.  The ones who are told by their surgeon, that their surgery was a success, while their pain still continues and their psychological and personal life is aggravated. Rebecca Rengo
 Author of “Beyond Chronic Pain”
//WWW.Beyondchronicpain.com God Bless all of you people suffering from pain… I too experience excrutiating pain daily from Fibromyalgia and overlapping conditions… I am so disgusted with doctors, specialists, and the whole lot… especially the pressure the DEA puts on doctors re pain meds (as Brenda mentions above)… It’s well beyond ridiculous that they persecute people in extreme pain, but barely prosecute drug dealers in this country! I am so tired of hearing “well it couldn’t hurt that bad”… Well it does, to the point I have NO life left and OFTEN cant even feed myself a simple meal, check my mailbox, or drive the TV remote, let alone a car!!! Severe chronic pain is simply unbearable. I am a former athelete with world records in sailing; it’s a gruelling sport, so I am no wimp or a stranger to pain, in fact my pain tollerance is extremely high.  Doctors and the DEA owe us some respect and due dilligence; I don’t/never did drink, or do drugs, nor do I want to… but I do want the right to have prescribed medicine to make my life somewhat bearable!!! Thanks & Blessings to the doctors who are actually trying to help people… I wish I knew of one in my town, Ft. Walton Beach, FL… I jsut moved here and I’m simply too sick & immobilized to look any further… What i would give up to get rid of chronic pain.
I would give up constant Doctor, physio and specialist appointments. I would give up the waiting time to see them. I would give up anxiety attacks because of my inabilty of ability.
I would give up telling the kids no mummy cant…
i would give up the daily tears assosciated with feeling so useless. I would give up the lack of Sex im my life. I would give up the pile of bills that build up because i cant work. I would give up the burden i have become to my wonderful family.
I would give up all medications because contrary to the belief of many, i do not enjoy them at all.
I wish i could give up $20,000-$40,000 but i do not have it. Kay ‘s  statements rearding people living with chronic pain makes a important point. Number one is that they really need to be heard by their Health Care Provider, and if their needs aren’t being met, than they need to find someone who specializes in the treatment of pain.Their are many different options available and sometimes it may take a combination of them, You deserve to live a life of quality I have severe spinal problems, scoliosis,  a herniated disk at L5-S1 and several bulging disks along with arthritis in the spine and a host of other related problems. I have no insurance and am awaiting a SSDI hearing. I am currently using a host of medications,including opiods. They dull the pain but do not anywhere near stop it. I can walk only short distances and standing is painful. I do PT and work as volunter for the American Pain Foundation and the Power over Pain action network to help take my mind off my pain. This helps me greatly as it gives me something to do at home since I cannot work and most forms of recreation are out of the question. The limits put on Dr.s prohibiting them from Rx’ing opiates affects me, as my Dr. tells me she just can’t prescribe any more of the drugs that work for me, the opiates. I have been taking these drugs for over two years and for the most part the side effects are nothing compared to the pain and the lose of quaility of life I used to have. I am hoping surgery will help, but who knows when social security will give me a hearing, it’s been 25 months since I first filed for help. The main point I want to make is that without the opiates I would be bedridden. I am limited to what I can do now, but at least I can maintain my house and cook and make short trips to the store. The discrimination against opiates leave millions in pain for reasons that are outdated and just plain wrong. The DEA andthe medical profession both need to realize that Pain is a desaese in it self and needs to to be treated acordingly, it is not “all in our heads”. Thats a riduculous statement, if  thats the case so is breathing and eating. Pain robs us of fun,joy, and a host of other things pain free indiviuals are allowed. a big “yes” to everything above, i’ve experienced it all! i wish i could give each one of you a hug but it would probably hurt more than it would help! i am in much the same condition as kimberly above, and  like pete, my partner ron has loved me through ten years of fibromyalgia and chronic fatigue syndrome and unbelievable pain. not everyone has someone to help them, so if you know someone in pain, please be friendly and listen to him or her!  two things besides the combination of oxycontin, neurontin and zoloft have helped me want to stay alive. one is my love of movies, i watch classic and foreign films all day (and sometimes all night) and i refuse to feel guilty about it! i have occasions when i can still read but they are rare. good films like good books are almost infinite. i walk when i can and sometimes it helps, sometimes not. second is realizing a really big dream, for me it’s meant spending time in paris, france! (i am there right now.) Creating one’s own “make a wish foundation” is the way to go. You don’t have to have a lot money–i’m on disability retirement–but you do have to figure out how to make your dream come true, and once you do, even with pain, life becomes worthwhile again. I try to do this once every year and it’s inspiring. even if i sometimes just sit in my rented apt. and watch tv, i know that eventually i will walk outside and be in paris. thank you to ron for helping me start my “make a wish foundation”. if you’re in chronic pain, go for the hobbies and the dreams! ~laura in astoria, oregon I was in terrible pain for a calendar year with a terrible and debilitating skin rash. Every one of two dozen doctors I went to had a different theory as to its origin and I was shocked to learn that among physicians, dermatologists are THE fastest doctors to go with the lazy, know-nothing diagnosis of “psychosomatic.”  “Neuro-dermatitis” they all said. Or they asked what the last dermatologist thought it was and then astonishingly agreed with that diagnosis and said it sounded right to them. “Good thing I took a day off from work to get a second opinion,” I would say.  I was sure it was something environmental since I’d been under job stress my entire life and because this horrific skin-rash interval started when I took a job in a new city and moved into what I had originally thought was quaint “60’s” housing.  None of the doctors believed me. Cortisones didn’t help and neither did tri-antibiotic gels, hydrogen peroxide, rubbing alcohol, Bactine, or 400 other topical salves available at a drug store near you. People suggested aloe and family cures but nothing  worked. Nothing.  I was also surprised to find that my G.P. and zero other doctors were willing to write prescriptions for serious pain medication even though they could clearly SEE what I was complaining about and see that I wasn’t making this up. Others suggested yoga and meditation — which were also useless — as were the psychiatrists I went to.  Finally, on a lark I tried 10% sulfacetimide antibacterial pads that my younger sister was using for acne, which finally worked where nothing else had. I also had to move apartments and throw away every stitch of clothing and my mattress, before it went away 100%.  The chairman of the department of dermatology of a leading hospital who finally believed me and said it could indeed have been environmental: a toxic mold or erythrasma and NOT something in my head, but tell that to the 24 doctors I went to who were sure they were looking at a stress-case.  Until the sulfacitimide pads, I was willing to give up everything to make the pain go away. The column was somewhat confusing in that it skipped from complex regional pain syndrome to a discussion of a study that had nothing to do with this disorder. The view that chronic pain is primarily due to misfire from nerves sending pain signals to the brain is an outdated one.  More and more research is focusing on the relationship between changes in the brain and the rest of the central nervous system and the development of chronic pain.  For example, there has been research demonstrating that there are changes in the brains of at least some people with chronic low back pain. Regarding the study cited in the column (which, by the way, was published in the November issue of Pain, not the September one) it should be noted that there was no standardization of what were considered the conventional therapies making it very difficult to compare their effects to those of the stimulators. Finally, I assume Dr. Kaufman must have been misquoted in the statement: “When drugs don’t work, what else is there?”  As a pain specialist myself, I find it difficult to believe that a physician who calls himself a pain specialist would be ignorant of the many other therapies that have been found to be effective for a variety of chronic pain conditions. From TPP — Thanks for your comments. Pain first published the study online in September. Dr. Kaufman was not misquoted. As far as I can tell, only people who have already had at least one spinal surgery are considered candidates for the implanted spinal cord stimulation device discussed in Parker-Pope’s article (when it’s used for back pain). I’ve had chronic back pain for over ten years and have consulted with two doctors about getting the device. They both told me I wasn’t a candidate since I haven’t had surgery. I’m not sure I see the logic in this, but that’s what they said.
    I’ve used a TENs unit for many years–a small, external device that scrambles pain signals via electrical current–and the buzzing is really not that bad. It’s not great, but I can sleep with it on if I have to.
    Whenever I read an article like this, my heart leaps, but overall I’ve found that most treatments don’t work for me, especially new treatments that arrive all shiny with corporate funding. Though Jerry Lewis claims to have eased his pain with a spinal cord stimulator. The story from the person with the severe rash who saw 24 docs underscores a point I didn’t make in my story because I hate to be constantly making it like a broken record… There is a reason you have the pain or inflammation. “Chronic pain” doesn’t mean much. Even ‘autoimmune’ no longer does, as many diseases thought autoimmune are now also being linked to hidden infections. There was a reason I had pain and other specific symptoms for so many years and it wasn’t ‘CFS’, ‘fibromyalgia’, ‘dysthymia’, ‘psychosomatic’ or any other vague circular-file dx. It was infections that had not been yet found and treated. Here in the Bay Area, most of the people we know with CFIDS diagnoses who have been correctly evaluated have tested positive for Lyme-related infections (Borrelia, Babesia, Bartonella, etc) and have improved on the antibiotics indicated. Helicobacter is another example of another microorganism only fairly recently linked to chronic disease, and it is being found now a factor in illnesses beyond the gut. This is a big trend in disease research now, though most clinicians don’t know that. I won’t note the specific patients above whom I would urge to go further in their search for a specific cause for their pain, which indicates specific treatment and a way out and up, but there are many. As for back operations, I have known so many people who have had various fusions and other such interventions and never improved, only further degenerated. And Medicare continues to pay these guys to cut, and pay for devices and other fancy interventions that make money for someone, but will not pay for so many other low-tech therapies and counseling on the kinds of dietary, movement, environmental, and other lifestyle changes that can really help. I have been suffering with cronic pain for 15 years. I;ve had 3 back surgeries only to developed peripheral neurapahty in the past year. I have had nerve blocks, physical therapy. I live on pain meds, I am planning on having a nerv stimulater inplanted in the near future, and I will be satisfied with any relief.
Cronic pain is a horrible exsistance and people who have never suffered long term from pain don’t understand. Also you can’t tell how much pain a person is in by looking at them. I look totally fine and I know people wonder why I even have a handicapped permit. I wish there was a way to make people aware of this problem and have consideration for pain sufferers. just a note to norcal girl’s last comment: not everyone can access infection treatment as test results continue to be normal for many of these illnesses. many of us could well have lyme disease but as far as i have been able to learn, it is not possible to diagnose after the first stage of the illness where there is a bite and a rash. also, i do have friends diagnosed with cfs who have been treated within this model and with antibiotics such as doxepin but they are not much better then they were originally. many of these illnesses are complex: immunological, neurological, and endocrine systems are all affected. in my own case, having developed these syndromes after a lifetime of posttraumatic stress disorder, i am more convinced by the brain change theory than i am by the infection model. but i am also convinced that not everyone diagnosed with cfs has the same illness.  i do concur with dietary changes. i discovered that by cutting out certain foods, my gut is much better: milk is a big one: my mother had told me many times that i was a “colicky baby”, you bet! milk gives me terrible gas! the lactose-free products are a life-saver. same goes for wheat products and anything with aspertame or monosodium glutimate. however, the dietary changes have not affected the pain i have, just my gut. people are very different, each one responds differently to a particular treatment, medication, food, exercise, appliance, etc. the medical model continues to treat patients with a particular disorder as a group rather than as individuals. the best thing i have found is a toolbox of helpers that work for me: meditation, diet, walks when i can, dancing when i can, baths or showers, distraction, meds, whatever works for even 15 minutes. it’s exhausting and it’s a full time job to be take care of yourself when you have chronic pain. ~laura in oregon Having had nerve damage from a total knee replacement, I ended up with chronic pain. I have gone through a year of pain therapies, including injections and medications. Nothing really worked for me. it looks like the spinal implant is a last resort for me, and I am in the process of getting approval for this surgery. Only someone in a situation where pain is your constant companion would ever consider this as an option. The best pain doctors have not offered an alternative. There are always pros and cons to any treatment such as this.Because there is a trial before the actual implant, the decision can be made based on the outcome of the trial. And as for the “buzzing” I understand this device can be switched on and off, depending on the severity of the pain. I’ve spent 10 years moving from PT to Pain Management to being evaluated by all kind of other treatments to long to mention.  Surgeons would say that as long as the pain medications would work that surgery should be put off.  Finally found a doctor that was sympathetic and willing to prescribe the needed meds.  I lived a realtively normal life being able to do most of what makes one’s life worthwhile.  Several months ago the doctor retired.  The doctor that took his place thought I was on pain meds for to long.  I told him that my dosage was always the same and this was the treatment everyone agreed was best.  This doctor has halved my meds and now I sit at home waiting for that hour or two when I can get something accomplished.  When I try to speak to this doctor he tells me that all doctors are being monitored by the government that is the reason for the bar codes on the prescription.  DOCTORS need to step up and face the DEA.  This should not be a patients battle.  At this point in time if insurance would pay for this device I’d accept it.  It just seems like it may be more then what is needed to manage my pain.  The AMA and other professional groups need to step up and take their patients care into consideration and put the DEA in it’s place. They do not belong involved in the Doctor/Patient relationship. I have just read through the postings.  Very interesting reading.  I am a healthcare professional with a specilty in pain management  and a person in pain.  I have chronic migraines (averaging about 9 or more per month for over 50 years) and Spinal Stenosis and other assorted arthritic pains in multiple joints. I use mostly non-pharmacologic methods to treat my pain although I do use meds for pain periodically.  I teach MIND-BODY-SPIRIT interventions to my clients and many can acheive 50% or better pain relief that lasts for 1 -2 days. I agree with all that has been said about pain and how it steals your life away.  I also believes it can steal the spirit.  The complications and consequences of chronic pain are numerous and in 90 – 95% of cases it is totally avoidable if the pain is treated early and appropriately.  The key is Respect, compassion and justice.  It  is not the milligrams of medication or what device will be used or implanted or what surgery is needed.  In an ideal world if healthcare professionals (MD,DO,RN, ARNP,PA, PT/OT and MSW)would treat persons with pain with Respect, Compassion and Justice then we would not be having the current discussion. There are competing interests – pain management (prevent or relieve pain)and drug control (to prevent abuse, addiction, and diversion and unwanted deaths).  The solutions for these two problems are not the same. As a Power Over Pain Action Network State leader in Washington State (along with Rebecca and Jeff above) I advocate for persons in pain and educate persons in pain on various ways that they can become advocates for themselves and others.  Everyone is different and we need to not compare ourselves to others.  What works for one person may not work for someone else. what one person sees as an intolerable side effect is very tolerable to someone else.  We all make choices as to how much pain we can tolerate and what treatment options we would accept.   The key is we do have the Right to make choices without feeling like we have to do everything that is suggested by out healthcare professional without fear of repercussions. (concept here is RESPECT).  We all need to be listened to and believed that what we are saying is the truth. (Concept here is COMPASSION) We need to have choices and we need equal and appropriate access to these choices of pain treatment. Not all choices are feasible options for some due to their health condition, their pain source or their belief system. (concept here is JUSTICE). Persons in pain need to unite and demand better pain treatment. Consumer demand changed the way AIDS patients are treated and how Cancer patients are treated and how giving birth is treated.  Consumer demand can change the way we are treated. 75 million voices in pain can not be silenced! Dionetta Hudzinski, RN, MN
President – Washington Alaska Pain Initiative
Power Over Pain Action Network -State Leader
//www.poweroverpaincampaign.org Just a word to anyone worried about the spinal cord stimulators.  I have 3 implants – 2 sens and a spinal cord stimulator.  Yes there is a buzzing but it far outweighs the pain which I used to have.  I have had chronic pain for over 8 years following a car accident which left me with neuropathic pain and which was not controlled either by drugs or rhizotomies.  Like many other people with chronic pain, my life changed completely – my old life was gone forever. Everything that I had done and loved was over and in its place was…..nothing but pain and frustration and sadness.  My GP was wonderful and supportive but unable to help.  Eventually I was referred to a pain specialist and then started a long road to get me well.  I underwent lots of treatment but eventually implants were my only option.  I read up what I could about them and went for it!  And now I am so well again.  I do have the buzzing but after a while you don’t even notice it.  But with the relief comes some drawbacks.  I do have to charge myself regularly and watch what I do and don’t do.  I cannot have certain procedures.  My life is still different to the one I used to have but I have learned that you cannot live life looking through a rear view mirror.  I want to look through the windscreen and move forward.  My eternal thanks will be to the many people who worked tirelessly to find something to help our pain and for my brilliant pain specialist who tried one thing after another until he had found something that worked and in all my years visiting him, he never once gave up on me but worked until he found something that gave me the pain relief I now have.  My special thanks to him and to all who have helped me.
Lorraine Howard.  Kildare.  Ireland Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. Advertisement