Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
DOUGLAS QUENQUA

SEPT. 23, 2013
 Injections of a decoy protein can restore normal bone growth in mice with dwarfism characteristics, according to a new study, suggesting a possible treatment for humans with the condition. People born with achondroplasia, the most common form of dwarfism, tend to be short in stature with short arms and legs and a relatively larger head, sometimes resulting in problems with the spine and with hearing and breathing. The condition is caused by a single mutation in the gene FGFR3, which provides instructions for making a protein involved in the development of bone and brain tissue. When injected into young mice, the decoy protein, sFGFR3, prevented binding with the mutant receptor, allowing normal bone growth to resume. The team of French researchers, who published their work in Science Translational Medicine, also saw a decrease in mortality. While many people with dwarfism reject the idea that the condition is a disorder that can or should be “cured,” Elvire Gouze, a senior researcher at the French Institute of Health and Medical Research and an author of the study, said the genetic treatment might still be beneficial. Advertisement For example, it might help people with achondroplasia avoid common later-life conditions like spinal cord compression. For now, she said, “the only way to cure those is through surgery.” “So yes, they would be taller” with genetic treatment, Dr. Gouze continued, “but that’s not the most important thing.” Advertisement Though there is no current treatment for achondroplasia, BioMarin Pharmaceutical in Novato, Calif., recently completed an early clinical trial for BMN-111, an injection that has also corrected bone growth in mice with the condition.   A version of this article appears in print on September 24, 2013, on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: Decoy Protein Boosts Bone Growth.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »