Advertisement Supported by Recipes for Health By Martha Rose Shulman I love the spicy Tunisian pepper stew with eggs poached in it, called chakchoukah. I substituted cabbage for some of the peppers and love this new version. Total time: About 1 hour (if using earthenware, about 1 hour 20 minutes) 2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 1 large onion, quartered lengthwise, then sliced thin across the grain 1 large green bell pepper, quartered lengthwise, seeded and sliced thin across the grain 1 large red bell pepper, quartered lengthwise, seeded and sliced thin across the grain Salt to taste 1/2 medium or 1 small head cabbage, cored and shredded (about 4 cups) 2 serrano chiles or jalapeños, seeded and minced 4 garlic cloves, minced 1 to 2 teaspoons harissa, to taste, or 1/4 to 1/2 teaspoon cayenne 1 teaspoon lightly toasted coriander seeds, ground 1 teaspoon lightly toasted cumin seeds, ground 1/2 teaspoon caraway seeds, ground 1 28-ounce can chopped tomatoes, with juice Freshly ground pepper 1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley or cilantro, or a mix 6 eggs 1. Heat oil over medium heat in a large heavy casserole or skillet, or in an earthenware casserole set on a flame tamer. Add the onion and cook, stirring often, until golden, about 10 minutes. If they begin to stick to the pan add a generous pinch of salt. Add another generous pinch of salt and the peppers and cook, stirring often, until they begin to soften, about 5 minutes. Add the garlic and cook, stirring, until fragrant, 30 seconds to a minute. Add the cabbage, chiles, coriander seeds, cumin and caraway and cook, stirring, until cabbage has wilted, about 5 minutes. Stir in the harissa or cayenne, salt and pepper, stir together and add the tomatoes. Bring to a simmer, cover partially, reduce heat to medium-low and cook, stirring from time to time, until tomatoes have cooked down and the mixture is thick and fragrant, about 20 to 25 minutes. Stir in all but 2 teaspoons of the parsley or cilantro, taste and adjust seasonings. Note: If you are using an earthenware casserole, the cooking times will be longer. It will take about 10 minutes for the peppers to soften, and 30 to 40 minutes for the mixture to cook down. 2. With the back of your spoon, make 6 depressions in the vegetables. Break an egg into each depression. Cover and cook for 5 to 6 minutes, until the eggs are set. Sprinkle the eggs with salt, pepper and the remaining parsley and serve. Yield: Serves 6 Advance preparation: This can be made a few days ahead through Step 1, and it will taste even better on the second day. Nutritional information per serving: 182 calories; 10 grams fat; 2 grams saturated fat; 2 grams polyunsaturated fat; 5 grams monounsaturated fat; 186 milligrams cholesterol; 15 grams carbohydrates; 4 grams dietary fiber; 100 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 9 grams protein       Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS