Advertisement Supported by Recipes for Health By Martha Rose Shulman Parmesan rinds, simmered here in the same way that a ham bone might be used in France or Italy, contribute great depth of flavor to this wonderful, comforting soup. I love the added texture and bulk provided by the barley. Total time: About 1 hour 10 minutes (including 45 minutes simmering) 1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil 1 medium onion, chopped 1 medium head cabbage, cored and shredded (7 to 8 cups) 2 garlic cloves, peeled and crushed Salt to taste 1 large Yukon gold or 1/2 russet potato (about 6 ounces), peeled and diced 6 cups water, chicken stock or vegetable stock 2 large Parmesan rinds (2 to 3 ounces) Freshly ground pepper to taste 1 cup cooked barley Chopped fresh dill, chives or parsley for garnish Freshly grated Parmesan for serving 1. Heat oil over medium heat in a large, heavy soup pot. Add onion and cook, stirring, until tender, about 5 minutes. Add shredded cabbage, garlic, and about 1/2 teaspoon salt. Cook, stirring often, until the cabbage begins to soften, about 5 minutes. Add the potato, the water or stock, the Parmesan rinds, and salt and pepper to taste. Bring to a boil, reduce the heat to low, cover and simmer over low heat for 45 minutes, until the vegetables are very soft. Remove and discard the Parmesan rinds. 2. Using an immersion blender, or in batches in a regular blender coarsely purée the soup. If using a regular blender fill it only halfway and pull a dishtowel over the top rather than covering tightly with the lid. Return to the pot and stir in the barley, or place a spoonful of barley in each bowl. Taste the soup and adjust seasonings, and heat through. Serve, garnishing each bowl with a sprinkling of minced dill, chives or parsley, and a spoonful of grated Parmesan. Yield: Serves 6 Advance preparation: You can make this a day ahead. Whisk well when you reheat. The barley will keep for 3 or 4 days in the refrigerator. Nutritional information per serving: 114 calories; 3 grams fat; 0 grams saturated fat; 0 grams polyunsaturated fat; 2 grams monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 22 grams carbohydrates; 4 5 dietary fiber; 21 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 3 grams protein     Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS