Advertisement By THE NEW YORK TIMESMARCH 24, 2014
 GENETICS Healthy Babies TO THE EDITOR: “His Fertility Advance Draws Ire” (March 18) does not cite a single ethicist supporting mitochondrial DNA transfer when, in fact, most sensible ethicists welcome this procedure. We are two such ethicists. It is a good thing to enable women with mitochondrial mutations to conceive healthy babies that are their own genetic progeny. The argument that pursuing this technology will usher in a new era of eugenics, or end in the creation of “soldiers who never need sleep,” holds no water: We’re not talking about selective enhancement, but the prevention of rare but serious diseases that kill most who inherit them before they reach adulthood. Elizabeth Harman Princeton, N.J. Adrienne Martin Penn Valley, Pa. PHYSICS Back to the Big Bang 
            Physics Envy. http://t.co/AUvK9lbrVl What an exciting time to be a young physicist! 1st Higgs & now gravitational waves from The Beginning.         
            Can someone confirm that the announcement means we're still on target for hoverboards in 2015? #BICEP2 pic.twitter.com/YNiYFMXjVE  CLIMATE CHANGE Getting Warmer TO THE EDITOR: “Scientists Sound the Alarm on Climate Change” (March 18) compares acting on climate change to buying insurance. The parallel of hedging against risk is apt. However, Americans are getting more than they would for an insurance premium, because there are guaranteed near- and long-term benefits from investing in clean energy solutions. By acting now, we might actually prevent the worst from happening, rather than protect ourselves in the event that it does. Daniel Sosland Boston The writer is president of ENE, an environmental research and advocacy organization. Advertisement TO THE EDITOR: In states that have energy deregulation, such as New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, everyone responsible for a utility bill has the right to choose a green electricity supplier. This simple and powerful action, if taken by enough consumers, could well be the tipping point in turning the tide on climate change. Advertisement Rachelle Bradt New York RESEARCH Financing Discovery Re “Billionaires With Big Ideas Are Privatizing American Science” (March 16): For decades, the wealthy have been funding chairs, building research centers etc... What is relatively new is that the U.S. government is broke at funding research. My own career as a scientist has been ruined by thinking the U.S. was fertile ground for research... When I was growing up in the days of the space program, everything seemed possible here. What a disappointment. Marc Turcotte, posted to Facebook As long as the science adheres to the scientific method, science is science, regardless of the funding. Ed George, posted to Facebook Because of an editing error, a letter in the Reactions column on March 25 about mitochondrial DNA transfer misstated the writer’s surname. She is Adrienne Martin, not Marting. Science Times welcomes letters, comments on nytimes.com and social media posts from readers. Email should be sent to scitimes@nytimes.com. A version of this letter appears in print on March 25, 2014, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Reactions.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »