Advertisement By CATHERINE SAINT LOUISDEC. 16, 2013
 The Affordable Care Act mandated that insurers cover dental care for children. Indeed, it was one of the 10 essential health benefits meant to set the bar for adequate health insurance. But pediatric dental care is handled differently from coverage of other essential benefits on federal and state exchanges. These plans are often sold separately from medical insurance, and dental coverage for children is optional. People shopping on the exchanges are not required to buy it and do not receive financial support for buying it. Now experts are warning that the flawed implementation of this benefit on the exchanges could leave millions of children without access to dental care. “It’s letting kids down in my mind, and it is clearly inconsistent with congressional intent,” said Dr. Paul Reggiardo, the chair of the American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry’s Council on Dental Benefit Programs. “The intent was to include all children. Now it only includes some.” Advertisement Tooth decay is the most common chronic childhood disease. Fourteen percent of children age 6 to 19 have untreated cavities, which can cause pain and, in rare cases, death. But the percentage of uninsured children who see a dentist annually declined to 25.2 percent in 2011 from 31.5 percent in 2003, according to the American Dental Association. Advertisement Had pediatric dental insurance remained a mandatory purchase on the new insurance exchanges, as originally envisioned, roughly three million children would have gained coverage this way by 2018, according to an analysis by the dental association. Pediatric dental coverage “has gone from a guarantee to a quote-unquote guarantee,” said Andrew Snyder, a program manager at the National Academy for State Health Policy. On the state and federal exchanges, children’s dental coverage generally comes in two forms. It may be “embedded” in medical insurance plans or sold separately in “stand-alone” plans. Both options are not available on every exchange, though they often coexist. State exchanges in New York and Massachusetts, and most of those run by the federal government, offer a choice of health plans with or without embedded pediatric dental benefits and stand-alone dental plans. Generally, it is the stand-alone dental plans that worry policy experts and deter consumers on the exchanges. Recently, Blake Barkley, 44, a soccer coach in Simi Valley, Calif., logged onto the state exchange, Covered California, to find cheaper insurance for his family. He wanted a medical plan that included dental benefits like cleanings for his children, ages 4 and 8, but was dismayed that the only way to buy children’s dental coverage was through an added stand-alone plan. One problem: Stand-alone dental plans don’t qualify for subsidies, as do medical plans on the exchange. With a household income of $50,000, the Barkleys qualified for a $741 annual subsidy to help pay the premiums for medical insurance. They won’t receive any additional subsidy for the children’s dental plan. Mr. Barkley plans to pay for the coverage anyway. “Stand-alone plans seem rather ridiculous to me,” he said. “Your teeth are part of your body.” Advertisement An embedded plan would provide subsidized coverage, but there isn’t one on the California exchange. By contrast, all health plans on the exchanges in Connecticut, the District of Columbia and Vermont include children’s dental benefits. Senator Debbie Stabenow, Democrat of Michigan, who co-wrote the provision of the law permitting stand-alone dental plans on exchanges, suggested its implementation had fallen short for families like the Barkleys. “Congress has made clear that the cost of dental care coverage for children, whether through a family’s stand-alone dental plan or as part of an overall medical insurance plan, should be included in calculating the amount of tax credit a family receives to help buy affordable insurance,” she said. More than a dozen senators and several advocacy groups representing dentists, insurers and consumers have asked the Internal Revenue Service to revisit its decision to deny subsidies to purchasers of stand-alone dental plans for children.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “The lack of a subsidy could have an influence on the purchase of coverage,” said Evelyn Ireland, the executive director of the National Association of Dental Plans, one such group, adding that “all of our organizations will push for resolution by early next year.” Stand-alone dental plans are also exempted from the law’s limits on out-of-pocket expenses. While out-of-pocket maximums for health plans are capped at $12,700 per family, stand-alone dental plans may have separate maximums of $700 per child to $1,400 for two or more children. On Dec. 2, the Health and Human Services Department proposed new lower annual limits — $300 for one child and $400 for two or more — for all marketplaces in 2015. The public comment period lasts until Dec. 26. Separate treatment of dental insurance on the exchanges has had another unforeseen consequence: In most states, there’s no mandate that parents buy dental insurance for their children at all. Officials at the Connecticut exchange dodged the problem by requiring all medical plans to provide coverage of children’s dental care. “By embedding it into the plans, we could guarantee it would be purchased,” said Chad Brooker, policy and legal analyst at Access Health CT. At least three exchanges — in Kentucky, Nevada and Washington — require parents to buy pediatric dental benefits, even if they are sold separately, when buying medical insurance. Without the requirement, the stand-alone dental policies would be less affordable, said Dr. John A. Thompson, a Kentucky dentist on the state exchange board. “We’ve spread the risk over a larger population,” he said, “and it drives the cost down significantly because not just parents of children with high dental needs are covered.” Advertisement But that means that parents who buy medical insurance on the Kentucky exchange might also end up buying a second policy that does not qualify for additional financial supports. Some experts are reluctant to recommend that approach. “We want to make sure dental coverage is not only essential but affordable,” said Colin Reusch, the senior policy analyst at the Children’s Dental Health Project. “Given some of the complicating factors, we haven’t been convinced yet that we want to require families to purchase.” Until the new health care law, separate medical and dental plans had been the status quo. Now even some insurers are wondering whether this benefit should be offered separately. Dennis Spain, the chief dental officer of Nevada Dental Benefits, suggested that medical plans might find savings in partnering with dental plans that pay for preventive services. “Medical plans in Nevada pay for anesthesia for kids who need a massive amount of cavity work in the operating room,” Mr. Spain said. “What if I came along and said, ‘I’ll cut the incidence of early childhood cavities in half’? What’s that worth to a medical plan?” California is revisiting the pediatric dental options on the state exchange in 2015. Some state advocates argue that embedded plans, which would put an end to the medical-dental divide, are the best way forward. “Kids will have dental care integrated into medical care, and families will have cost sharing the Affordable Care Act is supposed to provide,” said Kathleen Hamilton, the director of governmental affairs at the Children’s Partnership in Sacramento. “Kids’ dental shouldn’t be the stepchild of plans the exchanges are offering.” A version of this article appears in print on December 17, 2013, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: A Gap in the Affordable Care Act.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »