Advertisement 
                The Week             By                     
DOUGLAS QUENQUA

DEC. 16, 2013
 Just in time for finals week, some sobering news about the nature of academic performance. Two new studies from Harvard University showed that early music education classes have no discernible effect on one’s cognitive abilities, the Harvard Gazette reported. What does give people an academic edge? Better-looking high school students get higher grades and are more likely to graduate from college, according to new research from the Society for Research in Child Development. And a study of 11,000 twins found that genetics have a greater effect on a student’s standardized exam scores than his school or teacher, The Guardian reported. Of course, studying is probably important, too. Developments Environment: So, You Think You’re Cold? Scientists in Antarctica found the lowest temperature ever recorded on Earth, Science Daily reported. Temperatures from minus 92 to minus 94 degrees Celsius (minus 134 to minus 137 degrees Fahrenheit) were recorded between 2003 and 2013 on a desolate plateau along the East Antarctic ice divide by a pair of NASA satellites. Researchers found the readings while working on a study of unusual cracks in the terrain. The previous record, set in 1983, was minus 89.2 degrees Celsius (minus 128.6 degrees Fahrenheit), also in East Antarctica. The coldest temperature ever recorded in The United States? A balmy minus 62.1 degrees Celsius (minus 79.8 degrees Fahrenheit), in Prospect Creek, Alaska. Zoology: Mockingbirds’ Mob Defense A defensive tactic used by mockingbirds known as mobbing may be more effective than it might have appeared. To fight off cowbirds, which lay eggs in the nests of other species, mockingbirds swarm the unwelcome guests and viciously peck at them until they fly away. The move appears futile, because the cowbirds nearly always manage to lay their eggs anyway. Advertisement But researchers who videotaped more than 200 of these attacks say they do prevent the cowbirds from carrying out the second part of their “brood parasite” plan: destroying the mockingbird eggs already in the nest. In a final twist, the mockingbirds end up raising the cowbird babies. Advertisement Health: A Curb on Fatted Animals The Food and Drug Administration handed down a major new policy preventing farmers from using antibiotics to promote growth in cows, pigs and chickens. Resistance to antibiotics has become a major public health concern in recent years, with at least two million Americans getting sick every year and about 23,000 dying from antibiotic-resistant infections. “This is the first significant step in dealing with this important public health concern in 20 years,” said David Kessler, a former F.D.A. commissioner who has been critical of the agency’s track record on antibiotics.Food producers had found that feeding low doses of antibiotics to animals throughout their lives led them to grow plumper, though scientists are still unsure why it did. Coming Up Space: Wake Up, Rosetta The European Space Agency’s mission to land an unmanned spacecraft on a comet — likened to a parachutist landing on a mountain peak — is about to enter a critical phase, The Associated Press reported. The agency announced last week that the Rosetta probe, which has been traveling through space since 2004, will be brought out of a two-year hibernation next month and try to drop a lander on a comet late next year. The hibernation was intended to conserve resources after a series of fly-bys of Earth, Mars and the sun. The wake-up call will be made at 5 a.m. E.S.T. Jan. 20. A version of this article appears in print on December 17, 2013, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Truths About Grades, and the Coldest Cold on Earth.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »