Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
SINDYA N. BHANOO

MARCH 3, 2014
 Female dragon lizards in Australia develop orange patches on their underbellies when they are fertile; the patches disappear only after they lay their eggs. A new study finds that the intensity of the color and the size of the patches help males in their search for mates. The researchers — Devi Stuart-Fox and Jennifer Goode of the University of Melbourne in Australia — collected lizards from their arid homes under the salt crust of Lake Eyre and then used paint to manipulate the amount of orange on females in various stages of fertility. Then they observed how males responded. Regardless of a female’s reproductive state, the males preferred those with orange patches, particularly small, bright patches, according to the study, which appears in the journal Frontiers in Ecology and Evolution. They were least interested in pale lizards. Bright orange might be an indication of peak fertility, Dr. Stuart-Fox said, while a large patch might mean that a female is pregnant and uninterested in mating.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. But males do not completely avoid pregnant females. “The females can store sperm, and so he could still father another set of eggs,” Dr. Stuart-Fox said. Pregnant females work hard to fend off aggressive males, flattening their bodies and gaping to signal rejection. As a last resort, they flip onto their backs, a position that does not allow for mating and displays their orange patches. Dr. Stuart-Fox said the patches might remain through pregnancy because the sex hormones involved in creating them are the same ones that also allow pregnant females to aggressively reject courtship proposals. SINDYA N. BHANOO A version of this article appears in print on March 4, 2014, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: Reptiles: How a Lizard Gets Rid of a Suitor.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »