Advertisement Supported by On Medicine By Victoria Sweet In medical school, as one of only 10 female students, I ignored Florence Nightingale assiduously. I didn’t want to play any of the roles I thought she modeled for women — obedient wife, caring sister, modest daughter. It wasn’t until I was practicing medicine in an old-fashioned hospital in San Francisco and learned that its comfortable open wards were “Nightingale wards” that I started to take an interest. Why were they called that?  What I learned is that after the Crimean War from 1853 to 1856, in which thousands of British soldiers died from infections, Nightingale visited almost every hospital in Europe, analyzed them and then wrote up her findings in “Notes on Hospitals,” which became the guide to hospital architecture for the next century.  Its first sentences changed my idea of Florence Nightingale forever: “It may seem a strange principle to enunciate as the very first requirement in a hospital that it should do the sick no harm. It is quite necessary, nevertheless, to lay down such a principle.” As true today as it was 150 years ago — acerbic, witty and clear. Then I got to the end of the book, where Nightingale lays out one of the first sets of hospital mortality statistics collected. Statistics had recently been applied to social phenomena by Adolphe Quetelet, and Nightingale was taken by them. “To understand God’s thought, we must study statistics,” she wrote. And to display her evidence, she came up with the polar pie chart, a visual way of understanding data we still use. It was that appendix which gave me the first inkling that this was a brilliant woman. How did I get her so wrong? So I began to read. There are more than 300 Nightingale biographies and 16 volumes of her writings. Her life (1820-1910) spanned the 19th century, that bridge between the premodern and modern worlds, and she stood with a foot in each, with premodern feelings and modern ideas.  When she was born there was no anesthesia and no antisepsis, hardly a thermometer, and no oxygen, IVs or antibiotics. The best surgeon was whoever could amputate a leg in less than 90 seconds; appendicitis often meant death.  By the time she died there was germ theory, the laboratory and vaccines against cholera, typhoid and plague. So she lived through a revolution in health care. Her family was wealthy in a “Downton Abbey” sort of way, with cooks, butlers and maids. Her father educated her at home; she learned Greek, Latin, French, German and Italian, history and music. Then she turned 17, and it was time to get a husband. She rebelled. She didn’t want to marry; she wanted to work in hospitals as a nurse, taking care of the sick poor. In 1837 this was unheard-of. Nursing was done by servants, and her family looked upon her idea, she wrote, as if she’d “gone to be a maid of all work.”  They fought it out for 15 years. She turned down every suitor; she took every opportunity for training as a nurse, and eventually she won. Her father granted her an annuity, and she took over a hospital on Harley Street where she put her ideas into practice. Then came the Crimean War. It was the first war with correspondents at the front, and they reported on the thousands of soldiers dying at hospitals from typhoid fever, cholera and dysentery. Nightingale, whose work was well known by then, was asked to go to the Crimean Peninsula.  What she saw there — the filth, the lack of food, bandages, even latrines — stunned her, scarred her and energized her for the rest of her life. In that uncaring chaos, she had a vision of its opposite, of how things could be — shining hospitals with professional nurses and medical care for everyone, especially the poor, “who, when they are sick, become our brothers.” She spent the rest of her life making that vision a reality.  She wrote “Notes on Nursing,” which became a best seller and made her financially independent. She reorganized Britain’s army hospitals and reformed the nursing in workhouses. She founded the first real school for nurses, and its graduates — “Nightingales”— carried her reformation throughout the world. She wrote on public health, sanitation, India and prostitution, and for 50 years she was behind most of the health-related legislation in England. All this even though she was bedridden from chronic brucellosis, an infection she’d contracted in Crimea.  In her lifetime, she was esteemed. Queen Victoria wished aloud that she had Nightingale in her cabinet; babies, buildings and streets were named after her. When she died, burial in Westminster Abbey was offered, though her family, respecting her wishes, turned it down. So much of what she fought for we take for granted today — our beautiful hospitals, the honored nursing profession, data-driven research.  What would she have thought of the Affordable Care Act? She would have liked its emphasis on public health, on data and on adequate care for everyone. There’s just one thing she would have missed — her belief that caring for the sick is not a business but a calling. She didn’t mean “calling” in a religious sense. She meant having a kind of feeling for one’s work — an inner sense of what is right, which she termed “enthusiasm,” from the Greek entheos, having a god within. The opposite of a “calling” was “telling” — that is, rewards, punishments and threats — and she observed that without a calling, no amount of telling would satisfy. Which is what would have worried her about the Affordable Care Act. It relies on telling, on thousands of new regulations, rules and laws. There’s no calling in it. Now, Nightingale understood the different goals of doctor, nurse, lawyer and economist. From her study of hospitals she’d concluded that patients get the best care when no single power is ascendant, rather when there is the “perpetual rub” between doctor, nurse and administrator.  What would have worried her about the health care act is that its balance is off: It gives too much power to the telling of economists and lawyers and too little to the calling of doctors and nurses. Nightingale, however, was an optimist. God wants us to make mistakes, she believed; mistakes are the basis of evolution. She was also a fighter, so I imagine she would have seen the health care law as a work in progress, and what we have still to learn from her, even so long after her death, is her willingness to fight and her determination to get it right. She didn’t accept being told in her own life, and she wouldn’t have wanted us to accept it in ours. Victoria Sweet, a physician in San Francisco, is the author of “God’s Hotel: A Doctor, a Hospital and a Pilgrimage to the Heart of Medicine.”  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS