Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

JAN. 13, 2014
 I don’t know what I like best about these sweet wedges – the way the sweet potato skins crisp and caramelize, the creamy texture of the sweet flesh, or the subtle flavors of the spices and infused oil. 2 inches lemon grass stalk, hard papery layers discarded, the rest coarsely chopped 1 tablespoon coarsely chopped ginger Salt to taste 1/4 cup extra virgin olive oil 2 pounds orange-fleshed sweet potatoes, also sold as yams 1/2 teaspoon cumin seeds, lightly toasted and coarsely ground 1/2 teaspoon coriander seeds, lightly toasted and coarsely ground 1. Place the chopped lemon grass and ginger in a mortar and pestle and add a generous pinch of kosher salt. Pound and grind until you have obtained a coarse paste. Add 1 tablespoon of the olive oil and work the ingredients together with the pestle. Scrape into a small saucepan and add the remaining olive oil. Stir together and bring to a very gentle sizzle over medium-low heat. Sizzle, shaking or swirling the pan often, for 2 minutes and turn off the heat. Allow the mixture to steep for 30 minutes. Strain into a large bowl, pressing the ginger and lemon grass against the strainer to extract all of the oil. You should have 3 tablespoons of oil. Add a little more olive oil if necessary. Advertisement 2. Meanwhile preheat the oven to 400 degrees. Line a baking sheet with parchment and brush the parchment with olive oil. Cut the sweet potatoes in half lengthwise. If they are very long, cut the halves in half crosswise as well. Cut each half into 4 long wedges – smaller sweet potatoes will yield 8 wedges, larger will yield 16. Advertisement 3. Place the sweet potato wedges in the bowl with the oil. Add the ground cumin and coriander, and salt to taste, and toss together until the wedges are thoroughly coated with oil. Place on the baking sheet in a single layer (use 2 baking sheets if necessary). Place in the oven and set the timer for 10 minutes. Turn the wedges over and roast for another 10 minutes. Turn the wedges again and roast for another 5 to 10 minutes, depending on the thickness of the wedges and how fast they are caramelizing. The wedges should be tender when pierced and there should be some caramelized bits, especially at the thin tips. Remove from the heat and allow to cool slightly before eating.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Yield: Serves 4 Advance preparation: These will keep for a day or two in the refrigerator and can be reheated or served at room temperature. They won’t last that long though because they are so irresistible. Variation: If you want to introduce some heat, add a little cayenne or chili powder to the spice mix. Nutritional information per serving: 317 calories; 14 grams fat; 2 grams saturated fat; 1 gram polyunsaturated fat; 10 grams monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 46 grams carbohydrates; 7 grams dietary fiber; 126 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 4 grams protein Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »