Celiac disease, a serious immune system reaction to the protein in wheat and other grains, is far more common today than it was 50 years ago, a new study shows. People who have celiac disease can’t tolerate gluten, a protein found in wheat, rye or barley. Life with celiac is difficult because gluten is found in many medications and processed foods. When gluten is consumed, the body’s immune system damages the small intestine and nutrients can’t be absorbed.  While it’s been known that the incidence of celiac is on the rise, it hasn’t been clear whether doctors are simply looking for it more often, and therefore finding more cases. But new research from the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., suggests that the disease is four times more common today than it was in the 1950s, and not just because doctors are more likely to test for it.  The study, published in the journal Gastroenterology, analyzed blood samples collected from 9,133 healthy adults collected at Warren Air Force Base between 1948 and 1954. Another 12,768 gender-matched subjects from a study in Olmsted County, Minn., were also analyzed for signs of celiac disease. Of the blood samples collected 50 years ago, only 0.2 percent had celiac disease. In the more recent blood samples, the incidence of celiac disease was more than four times greater. Today, it’s estimated that about one in 100 people have celiac disease. Doctors don’t know why celiac is on the rise. It may be due to changes in the way wheat is grown and processed, or the ubiquity of gluten in medications and processed foods. Symptoms of celiac disease include diarrhea, abdominal pain and weight loss. Nutritional problems are also common, and anemia, loss of teeth and premature bone loss can occur.  The trend is concerning because celiac disease is often misdiagnosed as irritable bowel syndrome or another condition. It’s been estimated that for every person diagnosed with celiac disease, another 30 people have it but haven’t been diagnosed. Once diagnosed, the disease can be managed by eating a gluten-free diet. But when people don’t know they have the problem and continue to eat gluten-containing products, the intestines become severely damaged, leading to long-term health problems and a higher risk of dying compared to people who don’t have celiac. Comments are no longer being accepted. Undiagnosed celiac disease is a major cause of fibromyalgia also. I’d like to see further study with other countries where wheat is not as much of a staple as in the US. Maybe there’s something besides diet? One criticism of this study, and something that YOU, a health-care reporter should know, is that celiac sprue is not, and cannot be, diagnosed through a blood test alone.  Rather, diagnosis requires an endoscopic examination with a biopsy.  The tests looking for immunoglobins really aren’t all that specific and tend to overestimate true prevalence. That said, however, it is alarming that most autoimmune diseases have increased markedly in prevalence over the past few decades. Thank you Ms. Parker-Pope!
As a woman in her 50s recently diagnosed with genetic celiac disease, I am constantly trying to find out the whys and the hows and where this disease came from. I appreciate your writing about this!  One of the disturbing side effects for me — and one I was unprepared for — was weight gain! Arrgghhh! But I do feel better — so, fellow celiacs — take heart! Kudos to you for drawing attention to this under recognized disease. Its presentations are varied and vague. Sometimes it’s just iron deficient anemia with no GI symptoms at all. Patients often go years undiagnosed and then get compleely better once they go off gluten.  //happinessinthisworld.com So autism is increasing, asthma is increasing, and now celiac disease is increasing. Does anyone else find it odd that we don’t hear about diseases mysteriously decreasing? Four times more common in 50 years? Think 400 percent – it’s a massive increase. When you have a claimed massive increase with no known cause, doesn’t it make sense to question the numbers? Hypochondria is not a virtue, people. How can we be living longer than ever before while suffering from massive increases in many diseases and conditions? Let’s all say it together – if it doesn’t make any sense, then it’s probably not true. Celiac sprue rates are rising in other countries including India which is predominantly rice eating, There maybe number of factors including introduction of wheat into the diet at an early age, increasing rates of autoimmune diseases and a very important variable – the wheat we eat today is not the one that Jesus ate. Wheat has been altered to have a high protein yield thus increasing chances of triggering an immue response. However they are significant advances in our understanding about celiac sprue and we will see changes in type of wheat, treatment options other than just abstinence. What an amazingly misleading article!  If you look at the original study it was regarding cases of UNDIAGNOSED celiac disease, NOT the increase in prevalence of celiac in general.  The authors looked at the number of undiagnosed cases and the mortality of these people.  It turns out that the prevelence of undiagnosed cases has increased from 0.2% in 1950 to 60% currently.  This means that celiacs are either getting misdiagnosed or not getting treatment at all.   Since this is a genetic based disease, I also don’t agree with the premise that it is getting worse due to the changes in the food supply.  A change of that magnitude could only occur over several generations not one. FROM TPP — I don’t agree with your interpretation. The authors compared two cohorts and found an increase. Here’s a quote from the study author given to the Mayo news service. “Celiac disease has become much more common in the last 50 years, and we don’t know why,” says Joseph Murray, M.D., the Mayo Clinic gastroenterologist who led the study. “It now affects about one in a hundred people. We also have shown that undiagnosed or ‘silent’ celiac disease may have a significant impact on survival. The increasing prevalence, combined with the mortality impact, suggests celiac disease could be a significant public health issue.” “Celiac disease is unusual, but it’s no longer rare,” says Dr. Murray. “Something has changed in our environment to make it much more common. Until recently, the standard approach to finding celiac disease has been to wait for people to complain of symptoms and to come to the doctor for investigation. This study suggests that we may need to consider looking for celiac disease in the general population, more like we do in testing for cholesterol or blood pressure.” I was able to diagnose myself a few years ago with Celiac.  Since I cook my own food, I was able to determine what food was causing the irritation to my digestive system; and with a little research I was able to narrow the source of the problem down to the wheat based foods.  I’d never heard of Celiac nor ever imagined that I would have to stop eating much of what I wanted because of this auto-immune condition.   I think much like the rise in diabetes and obesity, it has to do with what’s being put in our foods and how the foods are processed.   Now, with the availability of organic and natural foods stores like Whole Foods and Westerly Natural Market, one can easily find non-glutein products and baking flour that equal or surpass the glutein-based ones.  Also, an effective treatment I found at one of the natural food store is something called Gluten-Zyme, which makes it possible to eat wheat or gluten based foods, allowing you to enjoy the burger, pizza, or pasta you may crave from time to time. Though controversial, gluten sensitivity also wreaks havoc on the stomach.  Despite negative endoscopies and blood tests for celiac, the suggestion was made to none the less begin a gluten-free diet.  The results have been nothing short of a miracle. Years ago, it was difficult to follow a gluten-free diet.  Not any more. Though also controversial, I would suggest giving up vinegar as well. Pay attention to your body and you can tell whether you have wheat intolerance.  It doesn’t *necessarily* take an invasive,  lab test.  Skin lesions, itching, and lethargy, are but a few of the symptoms one may observe in oneself.  Remove wheat, and other grains, from your diet; slowly reintroduce them, one at a time, and see how you feel.  The book Dangerous Grains by James Braly, MD and Ron Hoggan, M.A. is a good place to start reading information on this topic.   If you look at the autoimmune diseases that share the genetic marker HLA-B8, including such modern favorites as insulin-dependent diabetes (type 1) and Lupus Erythematosus, the only one on the list caused by an outside agent is Celiac Disease.  Perhaps this is a clue to reevaluate the causes of and the way we treat these diseases.  At the risk of sounding like a conspiracy theorist, imagine the impact on the various economies tied to wheat and the other grains if they were revealed to be a major factor in most of the ailments suffered by humans today.  If one could simply remove (not as simple as it seems) grains from one’s diet and relieve one self of, say,  type 1 insulin-dependent diabetes, what would that do to the pharmaceutical industry’s multi-billion dollar industry in that field? yamgruel.com This is almost comforting for those of us who suffer from celiac disease. We know that we are not alone. Now that it is becoming more common, we are sure to find more and more gluten-free food on the store shelves. What we will always have is each other fro support. #1 you are wrong. Celiac sprue does not cause fibromyalgia. It does cause arthritis and arthralgias. This article does not shed any new light on Celiac Disease.
Studies donducted in 1997 allready established that the percentage of people with this disease was precisely 1 in 100. I wonder if the NY times can do some investigative reporting and come up with something new. While Celiac Disease is different than a wheat allergy, it is also worth noting that allergies are on the rise. What a great study. It clearly shows increased prevalence of celiac disease rather than merely more diagnostic frequency. This is in starK contrast to disorders such as ADD, ADHD, and autism, that have no convincing evidence to show that they are more prevalent today than they were 50 years ago. The relationship between gut health and immune system health is undeniable.  The rise of allergies can, in part, be attributed to the general decline in digestive health.  An increase in consumption of fermented foods (real yogurt, raw milk, cabbage) and probiotic supplements, coupled with a decrease in consumption of refined foods and artificial sweeteners, may lower the risk of general allergies. //www.barefootconcepts.com Brian, you raise an interesting criticism, but as long as the  the rate of false positives is the same for either age cohort, and is small relative to the number of cases identified, I can’t see a way for it to cause enough of a weighting to the recent cohort as to account for a 4-fold increase in undiagnosed CD.  The 95% confidence interval the authors report looks OK to me (not that I’m an expert), and the article is in a peer-reviewed journal, so I would hope that if it is a glaring weakness it would have been caught before publication.  Perhaps there is some discussion of your concern in the article itself, but I can only see the summary.  All that being said, I don’t do bio or medical stats, so I’d love to hear from someone who does. Is it possible some cases of Celiac Disease are due to sensitization promoted by azodicarbonamide, a sensitizing ingredient  added to bread flour?

Typical listing of bread ingredients: Bleached enriched wheat flour (flour, malted barley flour, niacin, reduced iron, thiamin mononitrate [vitamin B1], riboflavin [vitamin B2], folic acid), water, high fructose corn syrup, yeast, cracked wheat, rye meal, honey, molasses, wheat gluten, soybean oil, oats, salt, sunflower seeds, barley corn grits, triticale, soy flour, flaxseed, millet, brown rice, buckwheat flour, wheat germ, calcium propionate (preservative), monoglycerides, sodium stearoyl lactylate, calcium sulfate, ethoxylated mono- and diglycerides, azodicarbonamide, soy lecithin. azodicarbonamide is a plastics blowing agent and flour treatment additive.
References from Medline Entrez:
1: Yonsei Med J. 2004 Apr 30;45(2):325-9. Occupational asthma due to azodicarbonamide. Kim CW, Cho JH, Leem JH, Ryu JS, Lee HL, Hong YC. Department of Internal Medicine, Inha University College of Medicine, 7-206 Shinheung-dong 3ga, Jung-gu, Incheon 400-711, Korea. cwkim1805@inha.ac.kr Azodicarbonamide is a low molecular weight foaming agent for plastics and rubbers. Azodicarbonamide can elicit acute and chronic health related problems due to its potential for pulmonary and cutaneous sensitization. Some cases of occupational asthma associated with exposure to azodicarbonamide have been reported, of which only a few cases were confirmed by specific inhalation challenges. Here, the first case of occupational asthma due to azodicarbonamide in Korea, in which the diagnosis was confirmed by specific inhalation challenge, is reported. Publication Types: Case Reports Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov’t PMID: 15119006 [PubMed – indexed for MEDLINE] 2: Br J Ind Med. 1989 Jan;46(1):60-2. Occupational asthma after exposure to azodicarbonamide: report of four cases. Normand JC, Grange F, Hernandez C, Ganay A, Davezies P, Bergeret A, Prost G. Service des Maladies Professionnelles, Centre Hospitalier Lyon-Sud, France. Azodicarbonamide (Chemical Abstract Service Registry No 123.77.3) is an organic low molecular weight agent used for blowing and foaming plastics. Finely ground azodicarbonamide can be a pulmonary and sometimes a cutaneous acute sensitiser. Four cases of work related asthma are reported. Publication Types: Case Reports PMID: 2920144 [PubMed – indexed for MEDLINE] 3: Clin Allergy. 1985 May;15(3):261-4. Occupational asthma due to azobisformamide. Malo JL, Pineau L, Cartier A. Azobisformamide is a low molecular weight agent used in the plastic industry as a foaming product. Two subjects with a history of work-related asthma in association with exposure to azobisformamide underwent specific inhalation tests. One subject developed an isolated late asthmatic response, whereas in the other a dual reaction was observed. Publication Types: Case Reports PMID: 4006176 [PubMed – indexed for MEDLINE] 4: G Ital Med Lav. 1985 Mar-May;7(2-3):97-9. [Occupational asthma caused by azodicarbonamide: clinical case] [Article in Italian] Valentino M, Comai M. A case of asthma due to a plastic blowing agent – azodicarbonamide – is discussed. Administration of disodium cromoglycate before exposure decreases the grade of bronchoconstriction: we suggest an immunopathological mechanism involved in the asthma. Publication Types: Case Reports English Abstract PMID: 3939220 [PubMed – indexed for MEDLINE] 5: Thorax. 1981 Dec;36(12):906-9. Occupational asthma caused by a plastics blowing agent, azodicarbonamide. Slovak AJ. A prevalence study of occupational asthma was carried out by questionnaire in 1980 among a group of 151 workers who had been exposed to azodicarbonamide dust in the process of its manufacture. Twenty-eight (18.5%) people without previous asthma gave a history of episodes of late onset asthma after exposure to azodicarbonamide. Re-exposure caused repetition and worsening of symptoms. Immediate removal from further exposure resulted in rapid cessation of symptoms without further recurrence. Seven of 13 sensitised individuals who were still exposed three months after the onset of disease developed prolonged airways hyperreactivity to common environmental irritants. Azodicarbonamide should be excluded as a causative agent in plastics and rubber industry workers complaining of occupational asthma. PMID: 7336369 [PubMed – indexed for MEDLINE] I can’t believe that almost 1 in 3 people have celiac disease as implied by for every diagnosis 30 people aren’t diagnosed.  If it were really the case testing a few hundred people at random would show that current diagnosis rates are woefully low.  Where is this number coming from?  An advocate for more funding?  Is there any basis to it?

FROM TPP — they aren’t saying 1 in 3 people have celiac…they are saying that if you take 3,100 people, 31 of them (about 1 percent) will have celiac, but 30 of them won’t know it. Hopefully that will improve health for all on this, the government must give force to the health sector, as there are many people who suffer from chronic illnesses and who need help to cover expenses stronger as fibromyalgia, cancer, producing a series very heavy cost to those who suffer as they must take powerful drugs such as oxycodone, Vicodin, Lortab, drugs that are highly controlled and that indicate that opioids are very strong and anxiolytics do not know if that can be given life-threatening that consumes, that is why many times the costs are too high to be able to obtain and soothe the intense pain. Although the antibodies being present in blood does not itself result in diagnosis for an individual, in a broader set of blood samples, it does indicate an increase in the diease. The presence of those antibodies and having the disease are correlated, however not perfectly, making diagnosis by endoscopy the “true” way to tell. So Brian’s criticism of the study really isn’t valid since they were not diagnosing individuals. As he states, regardless, a quadrupling of the antibody presence is alarming considering the progression of other autoimmune diseases in recent years. Are we really just better at diagnosing diabetes, autism, asthma, alzheimers, etc? Of course we are better, but it’s somewhat driven by the increasing prevalence. Physical signs of the disease truly increasing such as this study provides are invaluable because it drives the obvious question of “why?” And the sooner we find that, the sooner we can prevent. Get on it, researchers! Jack, we don’t have convincing physical evidence for ADD, autism etc on the rise because there’s no blood test for it. There was little convincing evidence that celiac was on the rise until this study, and they used old blood samples to do it. Just because there’s a lack of physical evidence does not mean it is not true. On May 15, 2009 I developed hives. These MAY have been triggered by stress or exposure to potting soil, they became so bad that I took over-the-counter Benedryl. I knew that if I paid to visit an M.D. it would likely result in (1) stress related no treatment; (2) prescription medication —I don’t take any; or (3) allergy testing. I decided to do my own diet testing by eliminating all gluten, dairy, eggs, and nuts–all known to be common allergens. After one month on this diet, I feel great, I’ve lost 6 pounds (had BMI of 24.8 when beginning). Hives have totally diappeared!! Most of the pounds that I’ve lost were ‘around the middle’….. Why don’t we all do ‘research studies with an N of one—ourselves? Saves $$ and is really interesting. Anyone else trying this approach to better health? Carolyn pdanek–0.2% HAD the antibodies then, we don’t know what percent of them knew they had celiac. 1% HAVE the antibodies now, and very few of those that have celiac know it.  You have mixed your statistics between those who had it then and those who have it and don’t know it now. Totally different and not comparable, that’s why you THINK it doesn’t make sense. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. Advertisement