Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. easy Miso-Glazed Grilled Scallops By Mark Bittman 30 minutes  Apple and Swiss Chard Pie By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus resting  Puréed Winter Squash and Red Lentil Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes  Monkfish à la Provençale By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes  Zucchini Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours  Greens and Chayote Enchiladas With Salsa Verde By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking easy Miso-Broiled Scallops By Mark Bittman 20 minutes  Miso Spice By Mark Bittman About 7 hours, almost completely unattended  Miso Butter By Mark Bittman 10 minutes (plus more for chilling, if you like).  Miso Mayonnaise By Mark Bittman 5 minutes.  Miso Butterscotch By Mark Bittman 10 minutes easy Miso-Glazed Grilled Scallops By Mark Bittman 30 minutes  Apple and Swiss Chard Pie By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus resting  Puréed Winter Squash and Red Lentil Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes  Monkfish à la Provençale By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes  Zucchini Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours  Greens and Chayote Enchiladas With Salsa Verde By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking easy Miso-Broiled Scallops By Mark Bittman 20 minutes  Miso Spice By Mark Bittman About 7 hours, almost completely unattended  Miso Butter By Mark Bittman 10 minutes (plus more for chilling, if you like).  Miso Mayonnaise By Mark Bittman 5 minutes.  Miso Butterscotch By Mark Bittman 10 minutes easy Miso-Glazed Grilled Scallops By Mark Bittman 30 minutes  Apple and Swiss Chard Pie By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus resting 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   Most recipes for miso-glazed fish are for salmon, because fatty fish are well suited for this preparation and salmon is particularly delicious. Nobu Matsuhisa is known for his miso-marinated black cod, which he marinates for two to three days. I can’t imagine finding fish fresh enough to marinate for that long, so in my recipe I marinate the fish for a few hours before broiling and then finishing, if necessary, in the oven. The marinade is based on the Matsuhisa recipe, but I’ve reduced the sugar considerably. 
Featured in: 
Miso, For So Much More Than Just Soup. 
   

Learn: How to Grill 
 

Learn: How to Cook Salmon
 
Healthy,
                    Dairy Free,
                    Gluten Free,
                    Kosher,
                    Nut Free,
                    Japanese,
                    Fish,
                    Miso
 By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 45 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, plus several hours of chilling By Mark Bittman 35 to 45 minutes with cooked beans By Elaine Louie 30 minutes By Melissa Clark 45 minutes By Yossy Arefi About 1 hour plus chilling Cooking Guide 
          By Sam Sifton
         Cooking Guide 
          By Florence Fabricant
         Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Tejal Rao
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.