Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Miso-Glazed Eggplant By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Creamy Pasta By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Frittata With Red Peppers and Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Fresh Tomato Sauce By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes easy Roasted Red Pepper Filled With Tuna By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes easy Seared Belgian Endive With Walnut Gremolata By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes easy Miso-Broiled Scallops By Mark Bittman 20 minutes  Miso Spice By Mark Bittman About 7 hours, almost completely unattended  Miso Butter By Mark Bittman 10 minutes (plus more for chilling, if you like).  Miso Mayonnaise By Mark Bittman 5 minutes. healthy Sweet and Sour Winter Squash By Martha Rose Shulman About 40 minutes healthy Miso-Glazed Eggplant By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Creamy Pasta By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Frittata With Red Peppers and Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Fresh Tomato Sauce By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes easy Roasted Red Pepper Filled With Tuna By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes easy Seared Belgian Endive With Walnut Gremolata By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes easy Miso-Broiled Scallops By Mark Bittman 20 minutes  Miso Spice By Mark Bittman About 7 hours, almost completely unattended  Miso Butter By Mark Bittman 10 minutes (plus more for chilling, if you like).  Miso Mayonnaise By Mark Bittman 5 minutes. healthy Sweet and Sour Winter Squash By Martha Rose Shulman About 40 minutes healthy Miso-Glazed Eggplant By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Creamy Pasta By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   Winter squash, already sweet and caramelized from roasting, makes as delicious a partner for miso glaze as eggplant.  
Featured in: 
Miso, For So Much More Than Just Soup. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Vegan,
                    Dairy Free,
                    Gluten Free,
                    Japanese,
                    Butternut Squash,
                    Miso
 By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours By Florence Fabricant 15 minutes By Melissa Clark 10 minutes, plus marinating By Melissa Clark 1 hour 15 minutes, plus at least 30 minutes’ marinating By Alison Roman 30 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Sam Sifton
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Sam Sifton
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.