Advertisement By JACKSON LANDERSSEPT. 16, 2013
 Jackson Landers, a contributor to The Times, recounts his run in with a black widow spider. I lay on my back with my teeth clenched and my hands gripping the sides of a hospital bed. A crowd of strangers in white coats filled the tiny room. Waves of pain lapped from my abdomen into my chest as the venom worked its way toward my heart. An experimental antivenin drug was about to be injected into my bloodstream, and while I waited for the needle to go in, I reflected that if anyone in the world was the right person to be bitten by a black widow spider, I was that guy. As a professional outdoorsman, I spend a lot of time around things that can bite, claw, stab or otherwise attack me. I have been lucky with snakes and reckless with bears. I have had some close calls with lionfish. It figures that the thing to finally nail me would be living on my own front porch. The black widow’s graceful form and red hourglass marking have made it America’s most recognizable spider. The Eastern species, Latrodectus mactans, is common from Florida to New York and as far west as Texas. Advertisement But despite their fearsome reputation, black widows are surprisingly shy and retiring. Over the course of your life, you have probably walked past hundreds of black widows without even realizing it. Each one packs enough venom to lay out a heavyweight boxer for days, yet globally only a few people each year are killed by widow bites. Advertisement Widow webs are easy to identify, messy and close to the ground. I spotted the first one knitted against the steps of my front porch, in Albemarle County, Va. A little black ballerina was balanced in the back of it. I regretted killing her, but she was too close to an area where my children play. I blasted her with wasp spray, and she dropped out of her web. I hunted for more to photograph and eliminate. The perimeter of my house turned out to harbor a village of black widow webs. I racked up as many as a dozen little black-and-red trophies a day. Fascinated by our proximity, I sought to learn more about these deadly neighbors. The black widow is unfairly named. Female spiders rarely kill the male after mating, and possibly only in captivity. The male looks very different from the mature female; he is smaller and brownish. (The hourglass marking is quite variable in both sexes.) Both sexes carry the same venom, but the females have more of it and their fangs can inject it deeper. One winter day, I carried inside a basket my children had left on the front lawn. I noticed a withered-looking black widow clinging to its side, still alive but stiff and slow with the cold. I dropped her into a Mason jar, and for three months, she lived on my desk on a diet of moths. I learned a lot about black widows just by observing her. They are awkward outside their webs. They are poor climbers compared with other spiders, unable to scale the side of a jar. I was surprised that my pet widow never used her venom first. When confronted by prey that was too large or aggressive, she backed off rather than bite. One warm spring afternoon, I decided to go fishing for dinner. On the same front porch where I had removed so many black widows, I kept a pair of water shoes and some fishing tackle. I put the shoes and the tackle in my car and drove eight miles to my favored hole. I donned the shoes before walking to the edge of the water. Within about a dozen steps, I felt a stinging sensation on the second toe of my left foot, as if there had been a thorn inside the shoe. Then the pain increased to about that of a wasp’s sting. I sat on a rock and removed the shoe. The squashed remains of a spider were smeared across the insole. I realized instantly what must have happened: a black widow from the porch had made its home in my shoe. Advertisement For a long moment, I stared at my throbbing toe and wondered what to do. Some people are more affected by the venom than others. Most healthy adults experience a lot of pain and recover on their own. But others become incapacitated, and some die. Which group would I fall into? Or had I been bitten by something else entirely? Why make a big deal out of nothing? I decided to wait and find out before getting behind the wheel. I dipped my foot into the cool water and decided I might as well pass the time by fishing. Three catfish later, the symptoms were progressing. I felt a warmth in my abdomen. This turned into pressure, which became a painful cramping. There could be no more denial. I carried my fish up the hill to my car and headed for the University of Virginia hospital, in Charlottesville. I knew the emergency room might not be able to do much. My research had taught me that while an antivenin exists, few patients actually get it.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The medicine has changed very little since 1895, when it was discovered by a French physician, Albert Calmette. By injecting spider or snake venom into a horse, Calmette induced symptoms of a bite, causing the body to produce antivenin. Blood could be drawn from the horse, and the substance could be isolated and stored for later use. While the antivenin has saved many lives, it carries dangers of its own. Some patients turn out to have a life-threatening allergy to horse proteins. So the medicine is given only if the victim seems to be at death’s door; most patients are expected to tough it out, an ordeal that can take days. That night, I was the hospital’s closest thing to a rock star. A parade of residents and medical students stopped in my room to gawk at me; few had ever seen a black widow patient. By now, the pain had crept into my lower chest, sending out waves of muscle spasms. A new resident paused to look at me. “Not looking too good, are we?” “You should see the other guy,” I said. With all the attention I was getting, I wondered where the good medications were. Where was the morphine? The muscle relaxers? My answer arrived in the person of Dr. Christopher Holstege, a calm toxicologist who had the longest conversation with me that any doctor has ever bothered to have. Advertisement Dr. Holstege finally explained what was on his mind. The hospital was one of several conducting a study to test a new form of antivenin, and wanted me to be a guinea pig. The drug, Analatro, was made in sheep rather than horses, and was processed differently, so it had fewer impurities to which the body could react. It sounded promising, but there were risks. First, I could not take pain medications that would mask the drug’s effects: no muscle relaxers to fight the spasms that already gripped my rib cage like a vise. Second, the side effects were not well understood. Finally, there was a 50 percent chance that I would not get the antivenin at all but a placebo. I would be only the fourth patient to participate. Two of my predecessors had received the placebo. It all sounded so interesting that I could not bear not to volunteer. (I was also promised a payment of $60.) My symptoms progressed as I waited. My biceps cramped. I shivered and twitched uncontrollably. I thought of the stringer of catfish waiting on my front porch and regretted its waste. At midnight, the mysterious substance was ready. It had been six hours since I was bitten. The room was crowded with doctors, nurses and medical students who were silent as the substance was injected. I felt a warm sensation in my upper arm, followed by the kind of rush that comes from a recreational drug. A wonderful warm flow spread from my left arm into my chest, then my abdomen. “This definitely wasn’t the placebo,” I said in a dreamy voice. It could take years of study before the drug is ready, but if Analatro is approved, it could completely change the way black widow bites are treated. Instead of making patients wait through days of pain to avoid an allergic reaction to the equine proteins, doctors could administer antivenin immediately and discharge them within hours. When I got home at 4 a.m., I limped up the stairs and collapsed into bed. The next afternoon, I hopped down to the kitchen to make coffee. There on the kitchen floor, I spied a little brown spider. I dropped a jar over it and captured an excellent specimen of a male black widow, dainty and thinner than its sisters. I took a series of photographs, and then it, too, met its end. Jackson Landers, a nature writer, is the author of “Eating Aliens: One Man’s Adventures Hunting Invasive Animal Species.” A version of this article appears in print on September 17, 2013, on Page D1 of the New York edition with the headline: Along Came a Spider.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »