Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Green Tomato Frittata By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour  Frittata With Kasha, Leeks and Spinach By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour, including draining time for leeks and spinach  Strawberry, Millet and Banana Smoothie By Martha Rose Shulman 5-10 minutes  Peter Reinhart’s Whole Wheat Bagels By Martha Rose Shulman 4 to 4 1/2 hours (About 1 hour active working)  Whole Wheat Sesame Rings (Simit) By Martha Rose Shulman About 5 hours (30 minutes active work)  Granola With Popped Quinoa By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour  Crepes With Raspberry-Cassis Sauce By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour, plus 30 minutes’ resting healthy Green Garlic, Chive and Red Pepper Frittata By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Beet Greens Frittata By Martha Rose Shulman 50 minutes healthy Parsley Hummus By Martha Rose Shulman About 20 minutes healthy Grilled Sardines By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy Spanish-Style Shrimp With Garlic By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Green Tomato Frittata By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour  Frittata With Kasha, Leeks and Spinach By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour, including draining time for leeks and spinach  Strawberry, Millet and Banana Smoothie By Martha Rose Shulman 5-10 minutes  Peter Reinhart’s Whole Wheat Bagels By Martha Rose Shulman 4 to 4 1/2 hours (About 1 hour active working)  Whole Wheat Sesame Rings (Simit) By Martha Rose Shulman About 5 hours (30 minutes active work)  Granola With Popped Quinoa By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour  Crepes With Raspberry-Cassis Sauce By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour, plus 30 minutes’ resting healthy Green Garlic, Chive and Red Pepper Frittata By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Beet Greens Frittata By Martha Rose Shulman 50 minutes healthy Parsley Hummus By Martha Rose Shulman About 20 minutes healthy Grilled Sardines By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy Spanish-Style Shrimp With Garlic By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Green Tomato Frittata By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour  Frittata With Kasha, Leeks and Spinach By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour, including draining time for leeks and spinach 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   Chop the greens super-fine to achieve the prettiest color. Use whatever looks best in the market (spinach and chard are brightest when it comes to color), or you can use bagged baby spinach. You only need 1/2 cup of chopped greens, but you could use twice that amount. 
Featured in: 
Summer Frittatas To Go. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Gluten Free,
                    Kosher,
                    Low Sugar,
                    Egg,
                    Garlic,
                    Green
 By Mark Bittman 20 minutes By Sam Sifton 1 hour By Mark Bittman 15 minutes By Mark Bittman 40 minutes By Amanda Hesser 30 minutes By Samantha Seneviratne 30 minutes 1 hour By David Tanis 30 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Samin Nosrat
         Cooking Guide 
          By Eric Asimov
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.