Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Orecchiette With Raw and Cooked Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman 50 minutes Trending Chana Dal, New Delhi-Style By Mark Bittman 1 hour Trending Fettuccine With Asparagus And Smoked Salmon By Florence Fabricant 35 minutes Trending Home/Made Mushroom Lasagna By Sam Sifton 2 hours Trending 3-Bean Good Luck Salad With Cumin Vinaigrette By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 45 minutes Trending Bucatini With Red Clam Sauce By Julia Moskin About 30 minutes Trending Pappardelle With Pancetta and Peas By David Tanis 30 minutes healthy Couscous With Turnips and Sweet Potatoes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Tomato, Cucumber and Corn Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Couscous With Tomatoes, White Beans, Squash and Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 3 hours 30 minutes healthy Couscous With Tomatoes, Okra and Chickpeas By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, 2 1/4 hours' simmer healthy Summer Tomato Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours healthy Orecchiette With Raw and Cooked Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman 50 minutes Trending Chana Dal, New Delhi-Style By Mark Bittman 1 hour Trending Fettuccine With Asparagus And Smoked Salmon By Florence Fabricant 35 minutes Trending Home/Made Mushroom Lasagna By Sam Sifton 2 hours Trending 3-Bean Good Luck Salad With Cumin Vinaigrette By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 45 minutes Trending Bucatini With Red Clam Sauce By Julia Moskin About 30 minutes Trending Pappardelle With Pancetta and Peas By David Tanis 30 minutes healthy Couscous With Turnips and Sweet Potatoes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Tomato, Cucumber and Corn Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 20 minutes healthy Couscous With Tomatoes, White Beans, Squash and Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 3 hours 30 minutes healthy Couscous With Tomatoes, Okra and Chickpeas By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes, 2 1/4 hours' simmer healthy Summer Tomato Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours healthy Orecchiette With Raw and Cooked Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman 50 minutes Trending Chana Dal, New Delhi-Style By Mark Bittman 1 hour 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   This is an adaptation of a recipe from Yotam Ottlenghi’s cookbook “Plenty.” I liked his idea of combining two different types of couscous, as well as both roasted and fresh tomatoes. The roasted tomatoes coat the couscous and add depth to the overall flavor of the dish.  
Featured in: 
In These Salads, Grains Sometimes Play A Supporting Role. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Vegan,
                    Dairy Free,
                    Kosher,
                    Couscous,
                    Sorghum,
                    Tomato
 By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 3/4 hours By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour, plus 4 hours' marinating By Julia Moskin 25 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes By Yotam Ottolenghi 45 minutes By Samin Nosrat 10 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Sam Sifton
         Cooking Guide 
          By Sam Sifton
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.