When Dr. Andrew Weil, the alternative medicine guru, hurt his knee, he skipped pain relievers and went straight to acupuncture, reports CNN medical correspondent Elizabeth Cohen in her online column Empowered Patient.  “It worked,” said Dr. Weil. “My knee felt much better.”  Acupuncture is one of five alternative therapies highlighted by Ms. Cohen in a recent column on unconventional remedies backed by science. The evidence for acupuncture to relieve knee pain goes beyond Dr. Weil’s personal endorsement. A study of nearly 600 knee pain sufferers, funded by the National Institutes of Health, showed that acupuncture improved both knee function and pain by 40 percent, compared to sham treatment resembling acupuncture and traditional care with pain drugs. Ms. Cohen’s other picks are St. John’s wort for depression; a regimen of calcium, magnesium and vitamin B6 for PMS; glucosamine for joint pain; and guided imagery, a relaxation and breathing technique, for pain and anxiety. The research on all of these remedies is mixed. St. John’s Wort, for instance, has been shown to help in mild to moderate cases, but not in severe depression. Anyone thinking about taking St. John’s wort should talk to a doctor, not just because depression is a serious health issue but also because the herb can interfere with other medications. The University of Maryland offers a comprehensive look at the history, uses, side effects and supporting research behind St. John’s wort. Glucosamine appears to work best in people with more severe arthritis. Although a recent government-sponsored trial called GAIT didn’t find any overall benefit, glucosamine actually worked better than the pain-reliever Celebrex among a subgroup of patients with severe arthritis. The National Library of Medicine offers a generally positive assessment here. For a video demo of guided imagery, check out this Web page at the University of Minnesota, and for more information about alternative therapies, I recommend visiting the Web site of the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine, part of the National Institutes of Health. Ms. Cohen notes that 38 academic medical centers have joined together to form The Consortium of Academic Health Centers for Integrative Medicine. For people interested in integrative medicine, which combines traditional treatment with so-called alternative therapies, the group’s Web site is a great resource. It lists all 38 members and their respective Web sites, as well as resources in the field of integrative medicine. And the University of Minnesota, a consortium member, offers advice for patients looking for a doctor who practices integrative medicine. Comments are no longer being accepted. As a physician, and former member of the Consortium of Academic Health Centers for Integrative Medicine (CAHCIM), I very much appreciate your summary on the relative merits, limitations, and state of the science on these therapies.   With over 2/3rds of medical schools now including “Alternative Medicine” and “Integrative Medicine” into the curriculum and increasing recognition on the importance of understanding patient’s preferences, it is comforting to know that patients will be able to have in-depth conversations on the risks/benefits of these therapies in the context of their personal beliefs and preferences. What do you know about “Monolaurin”.   I was introduced to it and have taken it for many years now at the first sign of a “cold” “flu”
etc….that scratchy feeling in the throat and fatigue.  It works with viruses but not with baterial ailments. When I broke my ankle and leg, conventional medicine screwed the breaks together and offered endless pain killers.  Acupuncture probably saved my foot; in combination with white oak bark tincture, I managed to avoid the physician-prescribed Vioxx. AMA/US medicine does a good job of emergency care.  There is much room for improvement in day-to-day management of chronic illness and pain.  If we do not research and try and understand systems of medical care that have served for thousands of years (acupuncture, traditional Chinese medicine, herbak remedys, etc.) we have only ourselves to blame. Hi! I’m a chiropractor. Remember us – we sued the AMA to get them to stop lying about us – and we won. I wonder why, in spite of all the high quality research we have produced, we don’t get any press. Studies have shown we are better at taking care of low back pain then acupuncture or medicine. We can do much more though. There are even good quality studies showing our effectiveness on immune disorders such as HIV infection. Why this conspiracy of silence? Interesting how acupuncture is characterized in the article as “unconconventional.”  Many more people have been using it for a much longer period than what the author would call “conventional” medicines.  So which, in reality, is the “conventional” medicine?  Such definitions, their limiting connotations, and the shallow world view they reflect, are part of the problem, not just with medicine but with the U.S.’s inability to establish any kind of functional and positive world enagement that could benefit us in everything from medicine to diplomacy. I think one reason Chiropractic is “ignored” is that it does not have a governing body. It does not have anyone to be accountable to and no one to weed out Charletons (to use an old-fashioned word) like medicine and denistry. To Dr. (yes, I believe it) Hansen: The AMA advertises on national television.  To Dr. Jacobs: It’s still going to take a long while for students and recent grads to change the landscape and, more importantly, the insurance industry. We should not view these treatments as “alternatives” but as complementary. Take the best of all modalities for the benefit of the patient. As I state in my book – “The Alternative Medicine Hoax”, Acupuncture “works” only as a placebo. It has never been shown unequivocally to cure any disease process. Studies show that “sham” acupuncture is just as effective as what is supposed to be “real” acupuncture. Acupuncture will not be considered a “scientific” practice until it’s practitioners can prove the existence of Qi, meridians, acupuncture points, pulse diagnosis, and other mystic entities.
I am not surprised that a placebo helped Dr. Weil’s hurt knee. Eds note: I recently reported on a study of back pain and acupuncture did show that a sham procedure worked just as well as the real thing.-tpp If people want reform in Health Care System the first place to start is funding research on herbs and supplements. My own work has been in clinical medical research in FIV disease which is similar to HIV. And have found herbs and supplements to be very useful in the treatment of FIV.  HIV drugs have been less useful because of resistence and are not designed for FIV disease. Oddly HIV drug failure causes mutations of FIV which reduces the strength of the virus which increases the power of herbs to control FIV. “Feline AIDS FIV” //www.geocities.com/gittleman1 I think one of the reasons  people have been slow to buy into alternative medicine is that often its proponents act too much like religious converts.  The overwrought rhetoric, blatant historical ignorance (if traditional medicine worked so well, how come life expectancies were so short until modern medicine took over?), and hyperbolic claims, all despite a dearth of research on many of the claimed “miracle cures” lead a lot of people, especially doctors, to use their explanatory filter to tune out all alternative medicine claims.   My own experience with the use of guided imagery by medical providers was pretty negative.  I was seriously burned and the burn unit I was staying in used alternative pain management techniques in certain cases.  Despite my continued complaints of acute pain, the nurses decided that I didn’t need more appropriate pain meds, I needed guided imagery.  It was a fiasco of staggering proportions (I yelled at both people who tried to talking me through the excruciating pain – I think one actually ran from the room).  Turned out, the doctors and nurses had temporarily misdiagnosed the type of burn I had.  I didn’t have low pain tolerance (whatever that means), I just had a lot more “actual” pain than they thought.  I got appropriately medicated and the pain became bearable.  I don’t doubt that guided imagery works, especially for chronic pain, but perhaps if my treating providers had been less committed to “alternative” pain management and more committed to listening to the patient, I wouldn’t have had to suffer so much or scare the poor psychology student who tried to help me. My daughter, Romany, is a practitioner of an ancient Asiatic medicine known as Ayurveda and has recommended many Diabetes type 2 patients, myself included to an Eastern plant called KERALA which has the appearance of a knobbly cucumber. It is by far too bitter to consume in its natural state but when juiced with carrot and / or kiwi fruit it becomes quite acceptable. She has had virtually 100% (me included) success with this amazing vegetable in a very short period of time.          Ron Rix  ( London England ) I have been a critical care RN for 15 years, I injured my back in 2000 trying to keep an intubated pt from self extubating.  7 years later, I could barely move, bending, stooping, squating, were nightmarish in a ICU.  I was stopped at a fair by a DC and my life has been transformed.  I will admit that I thought of DC’s as charlatans until I was adjusted and explained the process as another professional.  I am absolutely 100% for Chiropractic care.  I was one of the few people who did not take narcotics, I tolerated my pain because I had what I thought was a life.  If all else fails folks, try it.  I believe that I have a Doctor who believes in her practice and her patients. Science is the only way to determine what works.  Any treatment lacking a sound scientific basis, once tested, is usually unhelpful, even if popular.
The plural of anecdote is not data. It is so nice to see that more people are finding out that Ayurvedic medicine and its effectiveness to different ailments, Vegetable Karela, Fenugreek and Cinenmmon help stabilize the blood sugar .
               Posted by K Bhatt As a former user of chiropractic medicine I found that the sounds and pressure of a ‘back crack’ felt good, it was relaxing to have the laying on of hands. But it seemed that the only thing that was guaranteed when I left the chiropractors office was I was scheduled for another appointment. Which leaves me with chiropractor rule #1 adjustments beget adjustments. I find from reading these comments and listening to a friend of mine (she’s convinced she has something wrong with her)that many people out there have misconceived perceptions of both medicine and the belief systems of alternative medicine. Accupuncture is not just placebo as Dr. Bartecchi suggests as we know that naloxone (a chemical that blocks the opiate receptors in our bodies) blocks the effects of accupuncture so it does have a place in our research in medicine but unlike Mr. Zerbe can we really say that accupuncture ‘saved your foot,’ what disease process was your foot suffering from, or did you just attribute a random intervention to the inevitable healing process? We don’t need to better understand the systems of medical care that have ‘served for thousands of years.’ Our MD’s don’t need to understand meridians to ‘save health care’ in this country. We already use the derivatives of herbs everyday. We keep track of the medicine, albeit too late in a few high profile cases, so we know what the side effects are, even the rare ones. I ask you how often is agranulocytosis or fatal hepatotoxicity a side effect of white oat bark tincture? Has it been given out to 10,000 people in a double blind randomized clinical trial? We need to put providers of alternative medicine on the spot and hold them accountable, they need to learn the tools to prove their therapies. Do naturopaths take classes on epidemiology and statistics, are they trained in how to perform clinical trials? How do they regulate themselves, doctors are the largest skeptics out there, they share their information and then have other doctors try to disprove it, then they spend years arguing about a treatment until it’s solidly placed or its found that it’s not as effective as once thought and abandoned. God forbid that we hold on to one course of treatment for thousands of years, that’s just plain ignorant and lazy! I have no doubt that karela, fenugreek, and cinnamon help stabalize blood sugar.  In some cases, I understand, an herbal combination of many of the same ingredients work as well – like Pancreas Tonic.  It certainly worked for my husband who has not been on his diabetes medication or the Pancreas Tonic since 2002.  His last physical examination in May showed a glucose reading of 95. (Doctor doesn’t like it.  But hey, it’s my health and I like integrative medicine. Ayurvedic medicine is wonderful for diabetes and cancer.  I know! Interesting.  I am a multiple myeloma patient in San Diego.  I was diagonosed at 44, when the average age of diagnosis is 71 for this type of cancer.  As I always had, I promise myself that if I EVER got any type of cancer, the first thing I would do is to call every alternative cancer clinic and see how successful they had been. 4 years later I am still waiting for any alternative clinic who has successfully treated a multiple myeloma patient. Please let me know if you find one!!1 This would include the Gerson clinic, which is based on a theory from Max Gerson, M.D,  from the thirties. This is in Tijuana and stresses a vegetarian diet and coffee enemas.  (Some doctors say the latter are actually dangerous).  The late head of my local myeloma support group outlasted every single one of the other cancer patients there..when he was first diagnosed with mm (He lived for 10 years after that). He wanted his hamburgers..and it did not seem to hurt him at all.   And I do remember living next to an acupuncturist who would tell me she was a “physician” and a “doctor”. This as because she had gotten a PhD through correspondence (long before the internet) in herbal medicine. If I had a cold or something and her “remedies” did not work, she would blame me instead of blaming her treatment methods. She was good for back pain..as are NON-FORCE chiropractics…which means they do NOT crack you and you stop going after a limited number of visits. The problem with SOME chiropractors is you keep going and going forever. As far as cancer, I do not believe there are any magical cures, and some of what Andrew Weill, M.D. has said has been taken to task..especially eating soybean products.  (These actually have phytoestrogen which can PROMOTE some types of cancer..and you might as well just stay away from it..although Non-GMO products are much safer..per Dr. Joseph Folkman many years ago. I hope this was of help to someone. Alex Maas
a.maas@cox.net
San Diego The There does not need to be “medicine” on the one hand and “alternative medicine” on the other. Any remedy that can be tested and proven with clinical trials is a real remedy. Whatever the source – herbs, acupuncture, whatever. Anything that cannot withstand that level of testing, is NOT a real remedy. Simple as that. And most of these alternative therapies have not been shown to work. I’m reading all of these inserts, but isn’t getting back to good health the issue? How many of us have accomplished that? Or is there a different definition of health for every age group?
I feel that I have figured out the main cause of chronic desease, at least in my life. Seven years ago I was dying, or wishing that I was.
The psychiatric department diagnosed me with severe clinical depression, giving me Prozac and retraining my thinking. Medical doctors did the same. Finally I was diagnosed with hypothyroidism and put on a synthetic hormone. I sought an “alternative” opinion and was told, without so much as a blood test, that I had a very weak adrenal output. The test lab said that my crebs cycle was screwy, that I was starving and that I could have low gut biotics. That was my best clue.
I cured a bad case of candidiasis (which included trillions of probiotics), began an adrenal-enhansing protocol, which I eventually replace with nutritional juices, eliminated sugars (uh-oh), began an exceptionally natural/organic diet, began using natural detoxers and cultured foods, and significantly reduced the amount of poisons and toxins in my home and vicinity. You guys can argue for the rest of your professional lives, but I don’t catch colds, flu’s or suffer chronically anymore, unless I get too many toxins. The “proof is in the pudding”. Whether that’s scientific or not, I think that all we really want is to feel good and not hurt. I suffered with chronic fatigue, fibro-type symptoms, mental problems, aching muscles/joints…I could write a book on the symptoms, but I see it over and over again in the people that I meet…if you want to be healthy, look for and eliminate the toxins. They come from all directions, even from inside. But if you just want to not feel the pain, I suppose anything could work, even knocking yourself in the head with a hammer, drinking yourself off the wagon or finding some morphine. too often Medical practitioners of whatever school or background seem to have a mental disorder that makes them reason in circles, albeit educated circles. Often times it seems like a religion with a particular faith involved. But more often than not, it most like involves a heap of personal arrogance with a little monetary flavoring added. Will someone please develop a course of study listed under “Common Sense and Open-mindedness”? And let’s all get on the same team. The efficacy of Glucosamine is usually evaluated on the basis of whether or not it relieves the pain of osteoarthritis but its virtues may well be more long range and beneficial than simply relieving pain. As people get older their cartilage tends to become softer and more subject to being abraded by normal wear and exercise. A study in the January, 2001 issue of The Lancet produced strong evidence that Glucosamine had the ability to toughen knee cartilage and restore resistance to abrasion (the study was focused specifically on Knee cartilage but may well be applicable to cartilage in other parts of the body). The dosage used was 500 mg three times a day. It might well be used as a kind of prophylactic by active people moving into their 60s to head off or at least slow down the development of osteoarthritis. From the description of the study, it seems clear that it was not double-blind.  The people administering the “true” or “sham” acupuncture knew which one they were applying.
  The treatment lasted 26 weeks.  This seems like more than sufficient time for the attitudes and expectations of the practitioner to affect the patient one way or the other.
  If it wasn’t double-blind, I wouldn’t accept this study as solid proof of the effectiveness of acupuncture, a new antibiotic, Granny’s Spring Tonic (“Beverly Hillbillies” reference) or anything else. While some of the comments above have attacked alternative medicine as placebos or untested in widespread clinical trials (which is certainly true), let’s not forget that “conventional medicine” has made plenty of errors in over-prescribing certain medications that have later resulted in serious adverse events and complications (the off label prescribing of “fen-phen” or the indiscriminate use of HRT, for instance). As an epidemiologist, it is ironic that the medical community is just as stalwart and unceasing in their use and defense of “established” therapies as the acupuncturists, herbalists, and chiropractors are of their methods (refer to the NYTimes article this week on the “fat is bad” debate and lack of convincing, scientific evidence). Perhaps we all need to be a bit more cautious and open-minded simultaneously and place all therapies under more scrutiny. The gold standard is still a double-blind clinical trial. Of course, better accountability and more rigorous standards and monitoring by the FDA couldn’t hurt either. Justin- “Accupuncture is not just placebo as Dr. Bartecchi suggests as we know that naloxone (a chemical that blocks the opiate receptors in our bodies) blocks the effects of accupuncture…” That’s why placebos make you feel better. You expect to feel good, so your body releases endorphins. I should think the same is true of any placebo with a measurable effect. The purpose of research is determine if the cost (side effects) is greater than the benefit (primary effect).  Obviously this is needed in the world of big pharma, Vioxx, thalidimide anyone?  In the world of alternative healthcare most treatments are at worst innefective and at best miraculous.  I don’t see why I need a study to tell me glucosamine helps my knee pain or that chiropractic makes me feel more at home in my body.  If they didn’t work or I didn’t see value in doing them I would stop and my body is no  worse for the wear. A consistent criticism of complimentary or unconventional health care practices is that it is “unscientific”.  Yet, when I read the Physicians Desk Reference(PDR), the “bible” of  medication information, the “mechanism of action”(the why and way drugs work in the body) of many if not most drugs says “UNKOWN”.  Would someone care to explain what is so scienttific about this approach to health care? Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. Advertisement