Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Baked Ricotta Frittata With Fresh Mint By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes  Frittata With Kasha, Leeks and Spinach By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour, including draining time for leeks and spinach  Green Chilaquiles With Eggs By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour  Crepes With Raspberry-Cassis Sauce By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour, plus 30 minutes’ resting  Date Smoothie With Brown Rice and Almond Milk By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Pineapple and Millet Smoothie By Martha Rose Shulman Time: 5-10 minutes  Deep Purple Blueberry Smoothie With Black Quinoa By Martha Rose Shulman 5 to 10 minutes healthy Beet Greens Frittata By Martha Rose Shulman 50 minutes healthy Fresh Herb Risotto By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Green Tomato Frittata By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour healthy Mushroom Omelet With Chives By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy Egg and Herb Salad By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Baked Ricotta Frittata With Fresh Mint By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes  Frittata With Kasha, Leeks and Spinach By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour, including draining time for leeks and spinach  Green Chilaquiles With Eggs By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour  Crepes With Raspberry-Cassis Sauce By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour, plus 30 minutes’ resting  Date Smoothie With Brown Rice and Almond Milk By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Pineapple and Millet Smoothie By Martha Rose Shulman Time: 5-10 minutes  Deep Purple Blueberry Smoothie With Black Quinoa By Martha Rose Shulman 5 to 10 minutes healthy Beet Greens Frittata By Martha Rose Shulman 50 minutes healthy Fresh Herb Risotto By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Green Tomato Frittata By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour healthy Mushroom Omelet With Chives By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy Egg and Herb Salad By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Baked Ricotta Frittata With Fresh Mint By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes  Frittata With Kasha, Leeks and Spinach By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour, including draining time for leeks and spinach 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   This frittata is just one good reason to stock peas in your freezer. My favorite herbs to use are tarragon and chives.  
Featured in: 
Summer Frittatas To Go. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Gluten Free,
                    Kosher,
                    Low Sugar,
                    Egg,
                    Herb,
                    Pea
 By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 45 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour By Mark Bittman 1 hour By Mark Bittman 30 minutes, plus time for marinating By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours By Dorie Greenspan 1 hour 25 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By Robert Simonson
         Cooking Guide 
          By Florence Fabricant
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.