Advertisement 
Books  By                     
 MICHAEL POLLAK
 
NOV. 4, 2013
 There is Big Science, defined as science that gets the big bucks. There is tried and true science, which, from an adventurous dissident’s point of view, is boldly going where others have gone before but extending the prevailing knowledge by a couple of decimal places (a safe approach for dissertation writers and grant seekers). Then there is bootstrap science, personified by Gene Shinn, who retired in 2006 after 31 years with the United States Geological Survey and 15 years with a research arm of the Shell Oil Company. In his autobiography, “Bootstrap Geologist,” Mr. Shinn recounts his life and research, dispensing advice and anecdotes — some hilarious — starting from his boyhood snake catching, boatbuilding, drumming and blowing up shipwrecks for scrap, all the way to his receiving the top award in his field, sedimentary geology. Most of his career was spent in South Florida, and much of it was spent underwater. (Born in Key West in 1933, Mr. Shinn was the national spearfishing champion in 1958.) He did spend a short time at Shell’s Houston headquarters in a suit and tie, but he didn’t like it very much. Based in field offices far from the centers of corporate and government power, Mr. Shinn became a renowned carbonate geologist, a pioneer in the science of ocean sediments, tidal flats and coral reef ecosystems. He expanded the knowledge of America’s underwater oil reserves by discovering how certain mud and rock patterns were forming on the ocean floor and deducing which patterns were likely to become oil reservoirs in a few hundred million years, allowing drilling specialists to focus on the same patterns in rock buried under the Gulf of Mexico. Without a Ph.D. and often without much financing, Mr. Shinn published more than 120 peer-reviewed papers that helped change many experts’ views on subjects like how coral reefs expand and the underwater formation of limestone. Some of his papers, at odds with established scientific views, were initially rejected, only to be seen later as visionary. Advertisement His bootstrap ingredients included boundless curiosity, big ideas — “gee-whiz science,” he calls it — persistence, a sure hand at underwater demolition (dynamite was comparatively easy to come by in those remarkably innocent days) and versatility at improvising core-sampling equipment on tight budgets. The ability to enlist the talents of other scientists, many with doctorates, who shared his love of hands-on field work and his impatience with official rules and permits added to the mix. Activities like his exploding limestone samples off the ocean floor and hiring a helicopter with government money fell under a favorite Shinn maxim: It is easier to ask forgiveness than to ask permission. Mr. Shinn invites the reader along in a conversational, enthusiastic style that is impressively free of rancor for a scientist whose views were sometimes in the minority. Advertisement He keeps jargon to a minimum, explaining unavoidable terminology in highly readable notes. Generous to a fault in giving credit to his mentors, colleagues and friends, Mr. Shinn has apparently felt the need to throw in their names as often as possible. The names will mean nothing to most readers, and they slow the book. But that is a minor distraction. Far more important are Mr. Shinn’s warnings that his beloved reefs need all the help they can get. For some decades, the entire Caribbean has been experiencing a huge die-off of coral, long-spined sea urchins, sea fans and other reef life. Human pollution was initially blamed. At one point, Fidel Castro accused the United States of bioterrorism aimed at Cuba’s tobacco crop. But the deaths were happening all over the Caribbean and the Florida Keys.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In 2000, Mr. Shinn published his first paper — initially rejected — advancing the still-debated thesis that the deaths of many species were being caused by micro-organisms in the millions of tons of reddish African dust blown across the Atlantic each year. Researchers have since identified many animal and plant pathogens from Africa that have settled in Caribbean waters after making the Atlantic crossing. Speculating that terrorists in Africa might add anthrax spores to the westward-blowing mix, Mr. Shinn persuaded the mystery writer Sarah Andrews, whose heroine is a forensic geologist, to write “Killer Dust,” a 2003 murder mystery based on research at Mr. Shinn’s St. Petersburg field office. One of the scientists in the novel, a fairly cantankerous one, is based on Mr. Shinn. In thanking Mr. Shinn, Ms. Andrews described him as “coral reef cognoscente, Key West conch, drummer, champion spear fisherman and mixer of strong drink.” The readers of Mr. Shinn’s autobiography are likely to be equally charmed. It is to be hoped, for science’s sake, that he is not truly one of a kind. Bootstrap Geologist:
My Life in Science. By Gene Shinn. University
Press of Florida. 297 pages. $34.95. A version of this review appears in print on November 5, 2013, on Page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: Science on His Own Terms.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »