I often awake from nonsensical dreams wondering to myself, “What was that about?”  So I was particularly interested in a new video that attempts to capture the look and feel of dreams.  The film, called “All the Wrong Reasons,” appears on one of my favorite blogs, The Animated Life, by artist Jeff Scher.  “Dreams are picture-driven, non-linear quilts of movie-like moments sprinkled with cryptic epiphanies,” Mr. Scher writes. “They play nightly in the private cinema of your head.” So what do you think? Is this like any dream you’ve ever had? Comments are no longer being accepted. This video clip is an aesthetic representation of images accompanied which is acccompanied by music. Thus, it represents a product of consciousness, whereas dreams are a product of nature.  Consciousness is discriminatory; it separates and distinguishes one thing from another.  The unconscious is really unconscious, that which is not conscious.  Already when we make a representation, consciousness at least partially organizes it.  This is why any statement about the unconscious must be made as a hypothesis, an “as if.”  The clip is closer to Jung’s active imagination, but still probably not a truly synthetic product, if one can use such a term, as the aesthetic impulse creates a conscious cramp which inhibits the free flow of unconscious production of compensatory and creative symbols. Robert Winer, M.D. The clip is very much like my dreams in terms of the way it blasts from one situation to a totally unrelated next one.  Ludicrous, far-fetched events are characteristics of dreams but it seems that in these strange events we can extract meaning.  Dreams are not about the mundane.  They are about “what could be”. I agree with Dr. Winer. But sometimes when I dream I actively change what’s happening, especially when I keep having recurring dreams and finally decide I don’t want to go through the same dream again. So I suppose I respectfully disagree with the doctors’ comments. That brings up my response to the video, however, which was that there was a dream-like feeling to it because the images were familiar but strange, but there wasn’t enough repetition of image or theme to really feel like a dream to me. Am I alone in usually having a dream that keeps happening during a night, as far as I know? Maybe it’s only when I am anxious, but still. I associate dreams with recurring themes, not randomness. My dreams have a little more cohesion than this medley. Sure, the subject and images mutate and meld into one another, but usually I have an overriding goal (getting away from something, or getting somewhere, or finding my kids etc..).  It is pretty, though. Looks like an Acid dream. :P Wow! This clip does remind me of my dreams in how the scenes shift in a way that seems both random and related: i.e. running; running with a herd of elephants; running from a dog. There were a few big differences for me though: 1. The length. I think my dreams last for about a quarter or less of the running time of this clip 2. The music. No, I don’t have goofy xylophone jazz accompanying my dreams. 3. Lack of some kind of implicit moral theme. While some of my dream are simply random sets of images and scenes, I feel strongly that the majority of them are “about” something, even when the images don’t necessarily indicate that: in my dreams I am trying to learn something, or I have a revelation about someone I know, or (most frequently, I think), I realize that my previous conceptions about something were wrong,; I am surprised; I need to rethink. Anyway, I would say the general tenor of my dreams is Personal/Moral Education. I guess that’s impossible to portray because it is so inextricably involved with the dreaming individual.  Thanks for this article. I want to recommend a hilarious, poignant book about dreams called “Dreamtoons” by Jesse Reklaw. Reklaw, a cartoonist, asked his readers to send him descriptions of their dreams along with a few photographs/mementos that represent their lives, and then he portrayed their dreams in four-panel comics. It’s really a strangely enjoyable and voyeuristic read. It seems to me that the real underlying weirdness of the dream experience comes from the way that a dream’s disjointed stream of situations feels contiguous without demanding the same kind of transcendental unity of apperception (to borrow from Kant) that conscious life asks of our perceptions. In a dream, you not only go from being on an airplane to crash landing to fishing to being in biology class, it all makes sense, somehow. Perhaps it’s the evaporating nature of the dream experience, and the way that what happens in a dream can be so very hard to hold on to once you wake. Thus it seems like attempts to render dreams (whether here or in “Waking Life” or in myriad David Lynch films) will always involve a certain amount of jarring, due to our conscious mind’s need to order things. Which is not to say that the attempt is useless or futile, but simply that we can’t stop looking at things consciously when we’re awake. And even if we could, we couldn’t post comments about it anyways. The tempo pertaining to the transitions, is far to rapid if you ask me… and I have to agree with rini10… I to am usually experiencing an overriding goal in most of my dreams even while I might not ever find out what that is. But the events, symbolized in the dream, almost always have some direction. Then there is the question of a lucid dream… Witch in my mind play out like Oscar winning movies compared to what i just watch… come to think of it the movie is a fair representation of how i would dream as a child after a hours staring at a TV. Yes, as an old friend Dr. Winer suggests, the unconscious material which is
the stuff that dreams are made of, becomes conscious and specific to the
translator, when it is framed in what ever medium be it language, pastels or film.  The act of framing is what we do to try to bring the material into a form which then may be explored…this is the metaphoric process, the “as if” which must always be honored. Speaking with the British Jungian Analyst last weekend, Christopher Hauke,
who has done interesting and extensive work regarding the use of film clips brought into session by analysands, this exact issue came up…we disagreed.   Film is not at all comparable to a dream, for film provides a frame for affect, secondary at that, of a particular collective conscience.    The dream on the other hand is primal unconscious matter specific to the dreamer, the meaning of which must remain a mystery to be lived through
in the life of the dreamer. That video looks like it was made by someone who never dreams trying to imagine what dreams would be like. I used to have a recurring dream in which I was trying to get somewhere, but never arrived. The background changed maybe three times during the same dream, but the plot did not, and in any given dream I was either driving a car or walking, but not both in the same dream. The dream certainly did not match this kaleidoscope. The last time I had that dream, I actually arrived at my destination! It was wonderful. The dream has never recurred since then. To the extent that I remember my dreams, I’m much more likely to remember the narrative / plot than I am the visuals.  In fact, I can’t even remember if they are in color or black and white. It’s not like dreams I have, for the most part.  Like others have mentioned, my dreams tend to have some sort of plot, for lack of a better term. I usually feel not like I am watching a movie, but that I am in it.  But they are not always exciting or even particularly interesting movies, sometimes they are just very mundane to the point that were it not for the strange and even random images that the video tried to depict that occur in my dreams, I sometimes can’t tell afterwards that it was a dream. However, the one aspect of my dreams that the video does not address, nor the other comments so far, is the emotional component.  My dreams do not involve just sight and sound and occasionally other senses.  The video left me cold in this respect.  My dreams usually involve heightened emotional responses: sadness, anger, happiness, etc.  I often wake up with feelings I can’t quite put my finger on until bits of the dream come together in my memory.  It is often the emotional component of my dreams that make them so memorable to me. It was too ‘weird’ to be one of my dreams.  That looked like, as someone else posted, the attempt of someone who’s never dreamed to create one based on descriptions. In my dreams, there’s a plot and everything makes sense.  It doesn’t matter that the plot is “I have to keep the willow tree from eating that cream cheese,” or that there are penguins driving school buses and Gregory Peck in a lobster suit, it all seems perfectly reasonable and until I wake up, I usually don’t know I was dreaming.  No matter how often I wake up and think, “Where on Earth did *THAT* come from?” in the dream it’s all quite normal. Myself, I view dreaming as a subconscious ‘clearing of the decks.’  OK, in the last three weeks I saw a fistful of daisies, drove past a store window that was showing a documentary about Africa, was passed in traffic by the same sort of car my ex-boyfriend’s mother had, sat in a cafe where two people were discussing physics almost out of earshot, and read some political blogs.  Sometime next week I’ll dream about hyenas running against my ex-boyfriend for the Senate, only the Senate is a group of botanists who use string theory and quantum mechanics to generate alternative energy using the giraffe population.  And it will make perfect sense to me. I won’t remember that I saw or heard any of those things.  In any given day, we take in stupid amounts of data, from “Bluebonnet!” to “Otto Preminger” to “Sunny this afternoon, mostly cloudy tomorrow,” without really thinking directly about it.  It just hangs out in the subconscious, waiting for the neurons to fire and kick it up into the active mind.  I figure that if those neurons fire, then whatever it is gets added to the dreaming and the conscious part of the brain, ever the organizer, works it into the story it’s telling itself. Of course, I also believe in deep dreaming and lucid dreaming, though I’ve never been able to lucid dream (you need to recognize that you’re dreaming for that).  Deep dreaming is interesting because you connect much more with the part of your brain where intuition and instinct live, and I get a lot of messages from myself that way.  If I’ve been working on a problem in my conscious life, the deep dreaming can give me the answer because it assimilates the information without putting it into the pattern you consciously expect to see.  I think that’s where a lot of people feel they get divine inspiration, from that deep dreaming. Of course, sometimes I wake up from a dream thinking I’ve found a solution to a problem, only to realize that in the real world, it doesn’t work because carrots can’t tap dance. TPP-
Watch “Waking Life”. It is somewhat like this (imagery is somewhat the same) but it goes into more depth about dreams and what happens in them. FROM TPP — Thanks. I’ll check it out. While I don’t specifically study dreams, I am a sociologist who studies symbolic meanings, and my background leads me to disagree with the assessment that dreams are, as Dr. Winer puts, part of nature.  The act of dreaming is rooted in our biology, but the content of dreams is certainly not.   When we dream, our dreams our composed of symbolically defined meanings derived from our social and cultural context.  What I’m capable of dreaming of, then, is defined by my social context.  I can, for example, dream of dying in a car crash, while an ancient Egyptian could not. None of my dreams look like that. For one, the constantly fluttering outlines and constantly changing colors made my left eye hurt. The tweaky music’s gotta go, too.  My stories are actual stories. I think I accidentally trained myself to dream in stories because my mother was fascinated with my childhood dreams. She started asking me to tell them to her, because I had such bad nightmares. So, I had to compose a narrative. After a while, my dreams became narratives. Then, at age 7, I had a “repeat” nightmare and claimed it, thus becoming a lucid dreamer. THe kitschy 1950s and 1960s clip art does resemble images of my youth, however, my dreams are more contemporary. I don’t think the hairstyles or objects go back any farther than 10 years or so, and the people don’t go farther back than 20.l (The last dream with my mother in it was when I informed her that since she was dead, I had to be dreaming and I moved the dream narrative elsewhere.) BTW – Sherman Alexie has some great dreamlike sequences in his novels. I recommend his books highly. Lots more dreamlike with the banalizing soundrack turned off. I once read in some Advice for Life: Don’t tell anyone your dreams. No one’s interested-but you. (True) But I just have to share this one:
Last night I dreamt that my husband was going to miss dinner because he had a meeting and my son (who is now grown) asked me to stop at a favorite health food restaurant to pick up dinner. He was 7 in my dream, & wanted fried clams, chicken wings & French fries. In real life he’s strictly Kosher & mostly vegetarian. There was much more, but the cool thing was, wherever I went in my dream I asked people if they knew who Tara Parker Pope was, & if they had seen her “dream video.” I told everyone in my dream about my fried clam dream (yes it was a dream within a dream) and that I was going to write to Tara as soon as I woke up & tell her my dream was nothing like her video! I love dreaming.  And I agree with Rowan’s (14) & Kate’s (13) insightful posts.  They always have plots, even though they contain weird bits of what I’ve encountered yesterday or 10 years ago, and they usually have an emotional component. Dreams of flying & running are the best!
Can’t wait to see what I dream tonight. //www.happyhealthylonglife.com i have a “dream world” in which, my house and my town always look one way in the dream but nothing like they do in real life. i used to dream about the supermarket a lot when i was in high school- so i had the “dream world supermarket” which wasn’t really comparable to the one i would accompany my mother to. i’m on board with many of the commenters here, my dreams typically follow a “storyline” that seem to have a purpose (sometimes). one last thing, “Waking Life” is a GREAT movie about dreams. couldn’t reccommend it more. Thank you for posting this.  The play between images (if we allow that images are any sensory information as yet ‘unworded’) and words and the creation of consciousness is my current favorite investigation. Who can guess the extent to which dreams inform our waking life?  But we can say that the act of remembering them, and making words with which to contain them, creates a story which includes a consciousness informed by a source which is entirely ‘other'(and, of course, at once ourselves).  Perhaps if we allowed ourselves more time to discover the images which inform our experience, as the creative process might, these images will become dreams in their own right; and travel the midnight vapors…. this is nothing like my dreams, which feature real people and not cartoons.  However, it is very reminiscent of student animation projects and film festival submissions. my favorite dreams have lavish parties thrown by Mayor Bloomberg and Arnold Schwarzenegger Like any dream I’ve had?  Yes and no.  For one, the music was very distracting. Although I have sound and even music in dreams (and have composed brief tunes in dreams), it is much more subtle, and even when not, very brief. To be more dream-like (again based in my own experience only) sounds would need to be few and far apart, and mostly, much more subtle.   It is sort of dream-like.  But, at least in my experience of dreams, moves way too quickly from visual image to visual image.  And that flickering “like to drove me nuts.”  What is truly dream-like is the disjunction of images.  And I did begin to have a sense of a thread of connection, just as I do when reviewing a night’s dreams.  Not an interpretation, just something I suppose to give my anxious conscious mind something to pull it together with.  :-)  That is, a sense of a childhood advertising an intense need for attention.  So in that sense, too, the video is dream-like to me. I’ll end with a recent dreamku of mine (a haiku-like poetry form based on dreams that I’ve been developing): round black and white eyes
mandalas I do over
in vivid colors Once I had a boyfriend wake me up, asking me what I was dreaming about because I was laughing in my sleep. I was dreaming about popcorn. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. Advertisement