Advertisement By KAREN BARROWJULY 5, 2010
 Matt Kelley was 38 when he first noticed a round, hairless spot in his beard. Within six weeks, every inch of his body that once had hair — including his eyebrows, eyelashes, arms and head — was completely bald. “It was like a forest fire of hair loss,” Mr. Kelley said. Mr. Kelley, now 43, has alopecia areata, an autoimmune disease that causes the body to attack its own hair follicles. Alopecia, which does not include normal male-pattern baldness, affects nearly 2 percent of the global population and has no universally effective treatment. Its progression is unpredictable and can range from a few bald patches to a completely hairless scalp to the loss of every hair on a person’s body — known as alopecia universalis. Sometimes the hair regrows, sometimes it does not, and sometimes it grows in only to fall out again years later. “There’s no predictability to any of it,” said Mr. Kelley, who lives in Menlo Park, Calif. Only very recently have researchers begun to uncover the cause. In a study published last week in Nature, researchers from Columbia University found eight genes that appear to be involved in the mechanisms of the disease. One of them, ULBP3, acts like a beacon for the body’s killer immune cells. In those with alopecia, it seems, this gene is greatly overexpressed in hair follicles, leading to rapid hair loss. It was previously thought that alopecia was closely related to psoriasis, another autoimmune skin disease, but these findings indicate that alopecia operates more like the  autoimmune diseases  rheumatoid arthritis, celiac disease and Type 1 diabetes. Advertisement “We have a great advantage now that we know which genes are involved,” said Dr. Angela M. Christiano, the lead researcher of the study and a hair geneticist at Columbia University Medical Center. Advertisement Dr. Christiano, who has alopecia herself, suggested that because alopecia only causes hair loss without pain or other symptoms, there was never an urgency to find an effective treatment. But with the genetic basis better understood, she said, she hopes that more researchers will find merit in treating this disease, which can cause severe emotional and mental distress. “People think, ‘Bald, no big deal,’ ” Mr. Kelley said. “But it is a big deal.” Mr. Kelley tried many treatments, including the pharmaceutical (steroid treatments and cortisone shots),  the time-consuming (acupuncture and light therapy)  and the alternative (hypnosis and vitamin therapy). “You name it, I tried it,” he said. Nothing worked. His appearance changed drastically. In addition to the hair loss, he also gained weight rapidly from the steroids. Mr. Kelley wore hats constantly and became isolated, depressed and frustrated. It took years for him to realize that it was not his head that needed treatment for his hair loss, it was his mind. Mr. Kelley joined a support group with the help of the National Alopecia Areata Foundation, and he started to talk to others with alopecia. He slowly regained his sense of self. “The emotional part is really all you can treat,” he said. It was October 2006 when Mr. Kelley first stepped out in public as a bald man — just not quite as himself. He attended a Halloween party as Mr. Clean, complete with bushy white eyebrows, a white T-shirt and — of course — a shiny, clean scalp. Some friends assumed his bald head was a really good bald cap, but from that outing Mr. Kelley gained a bit of confidence. He slowly stopped wearing the baseball caps, fedoras and beanies that filled his closet.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. He may now blend in with other bald men walking down the street, but Mr. Kelley knows that he is quite different from those who had time to accept a gradually thinning hairline. “A bald man in today’s society is pretty common, but the hard part is the adjustment to the change,” he said. Advertisement What is the biggest difference, according to Mr. Kelley, between him and a bald man? Eyebrows. Without that arc of hair above his eyes, Mr. Kelley found his face to be expressionless and plain. So he had eyebrows tattooed on. He would love to camouflage his scalp as well  but says he feels that society looks down on men with hairpieces. “As a male, I always thought I was at a disadvantage,” he said. “There are all these toupee jokes.” Mr. Kelley is excited about the new understanding of how alopecia works, but he tries not to think about having his thick brown hair back one day. He does not want the hope for a cure to interfere with his newfound acceptance. “I just try to stay calm and be O.K. with not having hair,” he said. Mr. Kelley prefers to focus on the one good thing alopecia has given him: perspective. Once a successful sports memorabilia store owner, Mr. Kelley is now attending school to become a  family therapist and hopes to share the gift of acceptance with others facing alopecia. Mr. Kelley does his best to find all the humor possible in his situation. The Halloween costume tradition has continued, with recent characters including Dr. Evil from the Austin Powers movies. Mr. Kelley purchased a hairless cat to portray Mr. Bigglesworth, Dr. Evil’s pet. That cat, now named Hairy, is possibly the first in a collection of hairless animals for Mr. Kelley. Next on the agenda is a hairless dog. “I joke with my friends that I want to build a hairless Noah’s ark,” he said. Jim Wilson contributed reporting from Menlo Park, Calif. A version of this article appears in print on July 6, 2010, on Page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: A ‘Forest Fire of Hair Loss’ and Its Emotional Scars.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »