Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Chicken Bouillabaisse By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus overnight refrigeration  Zucchini Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours  Brown Rice Bowls With Stewed Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes  Monkfish à la Provençale By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Spring Ramen Bowl With Snap Peas and Asparagus By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking  Cream Of Spinach Soup By Mark Bittman 30 minutes healthy Spinach and Garlic Omelet By Martha Rose Shulman About 15 minutes healthy Spinach and Onion Tart By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes healthy Provencal Spinach Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Stracciatella With Spinach By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Chicken Bouillabaisse By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus overnight refrigeration  Zucchini Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours  Brown Rice Bowls With Stewed Peppers By Martha Rose Shulman 40 minutes  Monkfish à la Provençale By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 30 minutes easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Spring Ramen Bowl With Snap Peas and Asparagus By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking  Cream Of Spinach Soup By Mark Bittman 30 minutes healthy Spinach and Garlic Omelet By Martha Rose Shulman About 15 minutes healthy Spinach and Onion Tart By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 30 minutes healthy Provencal Spinach Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes healthy Stracciatella With Spinach By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Chicken Bouillabaisse By Martha Rose Shulman 2 hours, plus overnight refrigeration  Zucchini Parmesan By Martha Rose Shulman About 1½ hours 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   The license to call this nourishing one-dish meal a bouillabaisse comes with the generous pinch of saffron that is added to the broth. It is one of many humble, filling and comforting vegetable soups from Provence that are given that lofty title. 
Featured in: 
The Taste Of Spring, By The Bunch Or Bag: Indian Tofu With Spinach. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    High Fiber,
                    Nut Free,
                    French,
                    Egg,
                    Leek,
                    Spinach
 By Melissa Clark 1 hour 15 minutes By Mark Bittman 50 to 60 minutes By Melissa Clark 40 minutes By Melissa Clark 1 hour 30 minutes By Nigella Lawson 45 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 45 minutes By Julia Moskin 25 minutes By Sam Sifton 30 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Cooking Guide 
          By David Tanis
         Cooking Guide Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.