Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

JULY 9, 2012
 The perfume of summer fruit is heavy in the air at the farmers’ markets in Los Angeles, where I live. The vendors are smart to offer samples, because once I taste I can’t resist buying more fruit than I need. I’ve been turning some of it into sorbets and granitas. I’ve learned a lot about making sorbets from Jacquy Pfeiffer, the founder and dean of student affairs at the French Pastry School in Chicago. He taught me to use a small amount of corn syrup – about 5 percent of the weight of the fruit – to prevent the sorbet from developing ice crystals. A very small amount of honey will also work. I asked him what the least sugar I could get away with is, and he said it depends on the fruit, but as a general rule he uses 15 to 20 percent sugar. I decided to factor the corn syrup and honey into that weight, and my sorbets were beautiful, with great texture. If you want to use less sugar, the solution for frozen fruit ices would be to make granitas, which by definition have ice crystals. When you make a granita, you freeze the blended fruit mixture in a pan, scraping it with a fork at 30-minute intervals as ice crystals begin to develop around the edges, until it is all frozen but not in a solid block. Any of this week’s recipes can be made as granitas with less sugar. Melon Sorbet You can use yellow or green melon for this as long as it’s really ripe and sweet. 1/4 cup water Advertisement 65 grams (about 1/4 cup plus 1 teaspoon) sugar 33 grams (about 1 tablespoon plus 2 teaspoons) corn syrup Advertisement 680 grams (1 1/2 pounds) peeled diced ripe cantaloupe, honeydew or similar yellow or green-fleshed melons (about 1 medium melon) 1 tablespoon lime juice (optional) Pinch of salt (optional) 1. Combine the water and sugar in a saucepan and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat and simmer until the sugar has dissolved. Remove from the heat and allow to cool. 2. In a blender, purée the melon with the sugar solution and remaining ingredients until smooth. Chill in the refrigerator for 2 hours or overnight.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 3. Chill a container in the freezer. Blend the mixture for 30 seconds with an immersion blender, then freeze in an ice cream maker following the manufacturer’s instructions. Transfer to the chilled container and place in the freezer for 2 hours to pack. Allow to soften in the refrigerator for 15 to 30 minutes before serving. Yield: 4 to 6 servings. Advance preparation: This will keep for a couple of weeks in the freezer, but it’s best when freshly made. Nutritional information per serving (4 servings): 144 calories; 0 grams fat; 0 grams saturated fat; 0 grams polyunsaturated fat; 0 grams monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 36 grams carbohydrates; 1 gram dietary fiber; 33 milligrams sodium; 1 gram protein Nutritional information per serving (6 servings): 96 calories; 0 grams fat; 0 grams saturated fat; 0 grams polyunsaturated fat; 0 grams monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 24 grams carbohydrates; 1 gram dietary fiber; 22 milligrams sodium; 1 gram protein Variation: Melon Granita You may omit the corn syrup and reduce the sugar if desired. Make the recipe through Step 2. Chill a 9-by-11-inch baking dish in the freezer. Blend the purée with an immersion blender for 30 seconds and scrape into the chilled baking dish and place back in the freezer. Set the timer for 30 minutes. Using a fork, scrape the ice crystals from the outside of the baking dish toward the center. Return to the freezer and set the timer for another 30 minutes. Continue to scrape the mixture with a fork every 30 minutes until you have a uniform frozen mixture. It should not be frozen solid. If you forget to scrape and the mixture does freeze like an ice cube, cut into chunks and use a food processor fitted with the steel blade to break it up. Transfer to a container and freeze. Allow to soften for 15 minutes in the refrigerator before serving.    Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »