Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

AUG. 20, 2012
 The drought that much of the nation is experiencing this summer is expected to affect the price of milk and meat because of the feed corn that these commodities rely on. But interestingly, according to Bloomberg Businessweek, shoppers are not likely to see higher prices for corn on the cob because sweet corn is not as vulnerable to drought conditions. Corn on the cob that is sold in supermarkets is an irrigated crop, like other vegetables and fruits grown on large farms. However, smaller farms that sell their produce at farmers’ markets in drought-stricken areas are having a difficult time with their yields, so you may see a spike in prices there. The season for good, fresh sweet corn is such a short one that I will pay the price for it, just as I’ll spend money on heirloom tomatoes. Here in California, I’m paying about what I pay every year for farmers’ market corn on the cob – 50 to 75 cents an ear. But at my local supermarket, I bought delicious sweet corn this weekend at eight ears for $2. I ate some of it plain, on the cob, and the rest I used for salads, salsas, creamy soups, puddings and creamed corn, none of which contained any cream. When you blend or grate corn, it releases its own milky juice, which opens up all kinds of possibilities for creamy dairy-free dishes. Although we don’t think of corn as a nutritional powerhouse, it’s a good source of several nutrients, including thiamin (vitamin B1), pantothenic acid (vitamin B5), folate, dietary fiber, vitamin C, phosphorus and manganese. A cup of corn supplies 19 percent of the recommended daily dose of folate, and about a quarter of the daily value for thiamin.   Arugula, Corn and Herb Salad Corn, lightly steamed and cut off the cob, is terrific in salads. It goes very nicely with arugula, the sweet corn providing a beautiful contrast to the pungent salad green. Advertisement   1 large ear of corn 6 ounces baby arugula, washed and spun dry 2 tablespoons chopped or slivered fresh herbs, like basil, tarragon, chives, parsley, marjoram Advertisement 1 ounce shaved Parmesan 1 tablespoon sherry vinegar 1 teaspoon balsamic vinegar 1/2 teaspoon Dijon mustard 1 small garlic clove, puréed (optional) Salt and freshly ground pepper 1/4 cup extra virgin olive oil 2 medium-size ripe tomatoes, cut in wedges   1. Steam the corn until tender, 4 to 5 minutes. When it is cool enough to handle, cut the kernels from the cobs.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 2. Combine the corn, arugula, herbs and Parmesan in a salad bowl. In a small bowl or measuring cup, whisk together the sherry vinegar, balsamic vinegar, Dijon mustard, garlic, salt, pepper and olive oil. 3. Just before serving, toss the salad with the dressing. Garnish with the tomato wedges and serve. Yield: 4 to 6 servings. Advance preparation: You can prepare the salad ingredients and dressing several hours before tossing the salad. Nutritional information per serving (4 servings): 208 calories; 16 grams fat; 3 grams saturated fat; 2 grams polyunsaturated fat; 11 grams monounsaturated fat; 6 milligrams cholesterol; 12 grams carbohydrates; 2 grams dietary fiber; 163 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 6 grams protein Nutritional information per serving (6 servings): 139 calories; 11 grams fat; 2 grams saturated fat; 1 gram polyunsaturated fat; 7 grams monounsaturated fat; 4 milligrams cholesterol; 8 grams carbohydrates; 1 gram dietary fiber; 109 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 4 grams protein    Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »