Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

OCT. 7, 2013
 Ever since I read Kim Boyce’s recipe for quinoa and beet pancakes, a recipe that inspired her wonderful book “Good to the Grain,” I’ve wanted to add puréed beets to a pancake batter. I finally got around to it. I used two-thirds whole wheat flour and one-third all-purpose flour in this very pink batter. Ms. Boyce uses a mixture of quinoa flour and all-purpose, which shows off the bright color of the beets to a better effect. I think millet flour would be a good choice too. It’s important to purée the roasted beets until they’re really smooth; I found using a powerful hand blender was more effective for this than my food processor. 1 large or 2 medium beets (enough for 1/2 cup puréed roasted beets) 125 grams (1 cup) whole wheat flour or teff flour (or a combination) 60 grams (1/2 cup) unbleached all-purpose flour 10 grams (2 teaspoons) baking powder 5 grams (1 teaspoon) baking soda 2 grams (rounded 1/4 teaspoon) salt 1 tablespoon sugar, honey, or agave syrup (optional) 2 eggs 5 grams (1 teaspoon) vanilla Advertisement 1 1/2 cups buttermilk or 1 cup yogurt + 1/2 cup milk 35 grams (3 tablespoons) chia seeds 3 tablespoons sunflower, grapeseed or canola oil Advertisement 1. Preheat the oven to 425 degrees. Cut the greens away from the beets, leaving about 1/4 inch of stems. Scrub the beets and place in a baking dish (or lidded ovenproof casserole). Add 1/2 inch water to the dish. Cover tightly. Place in the oven and roast medium beets (4 to 6 ounces) for 50 minutes, large beets (8 ounces) 60 minutes, or until very soft and easily penetrated with the tip of a knife. Remove from the oven and allow to cool in the covered baking dish. Cut away the ends and slip off the skins. Purée in a food processor fitted with the steel blade until smooth. Measure out 1/2 cup. Freeze any extra.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 2. Sift together the flours, baking powder, baking soda, salt, and sugar (if using sugar). In a medium-size bowl, beat together the eggs, buttermilk or yogurt and milk, oil, vanilla, beet purée and honey or agave nectar (if using). Quickly whisk in the flour mixture and fold in the chia seeds. 3. Heat a large skillet or griddle over medium-high heat and brush with butter or oil. Drop the pancakes by the scant 1/4 cup onto the hot pan or griddle. Cook until bubbles break through and turn the pancakes. They will be quite moist so make sure to wait long enough so that they don’t fall apart when you turn them. Cook for 1 to 2 minutes on the other side, until lightly browned. Remove to a rack. Serve with maple syrup and butter. Yield: About 15 pancakes Advance preparation: You can make these a day ahead and reheat, or freeze them and thaw in the microwave. Nutritional information per pancake: 107 calories; 5 grams fat; 1 grams saturated fat; 3 grams polyunsaturated fat; 1 gram monounsaturated fat; 26 milligrams cholesterol; 13 grams carbohydrates; 2 grams dietary fiber; 254 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 4 grams protein Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »