Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

OCT. 28, 2013
 Millet polenta is as comforting as it gets. In season you can use fresh tomatoes in the topping, but canned will work just fine. You could also make this dish with cornmeal polenta. 1 pound eggplant 2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil (plus additional for oiling the foil) Salt and freshly ground pepper to taste 1 cup millet 4 cups water or vegetable stock 1 tablespoon unsalted butter 1 can (28-ounce) tomatoes, with juice 2 garlic cloves, minced 1 to 2 teaspoons fresh thyme leaves (to taste), plus additional for garnish Pinch of sugar Advertisement Salt to taste 1 can chickpeas, drained and rinsed Optional: 1/2 cup freshly grated Parmesan   1. Roast the eggplant. Cut it into 3/4-inch cubes and toss with 1 tablespoon of the olive oil and salt and pepper to taste. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees. Line a baking sheet with foil and brush the foil with olive oil. Lay the eggplant on the foil in a single layer. Roast in the hot oven for 15 to 20 minutes, until the cubes are soft when pierced with a knife and browned in spots. They’ll look dry on the surface but when you pierce them with a knife you should be able to see that the flesh is soft. Remove from the oven and carefully fold the foil up over the eggplant slices (be careful not to burn yourself!). Crimp the edges of the foil so that the eggplant is hermetically sealed in a big foil packet, and allow the eggplant to steam for another 15 to 20 minutes. Turn the oven down to 350degrees. Advertisement 2. Begin the polenta. Heat a 10-inch cast iron skillet over medium-high heat and add the millet. Toast, stirring or shaking the pan, until the grains begin to pop and smell sort of like popcorn. Add the water or stock and salt (up to 1 teaspoon, to taste). Transfer the pan to the hot oven. After 25 minutes give the millet a stir and bake for another 20 to 25 minutes. There should still be some liquid in the pan. Stir in the butter and bake for another 5 to 10 minutes, until the millet is thick and no more water or stock is visible in the pan.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 3. While the millet is in the oven make the tomato sauce. Pulse the tomatoes in a food processor so that you have a nice puréed texture. Heat the remaining tablespoon of olive oil over medium heat in a wide nonstick skillet or saucepan and add the garlic and thyme. As soon as it begins to smell fragrant (1/2 to 1 minute), add the tomatoes, sugar, eggplant, and salt, stir and turn up the heat. When the tomatoes begin to bubble, turn the heat to medium-low and cook, partially covered and stirring often, until thick and fragrant, about 20 minutes. Stir in the chickpeas and heat through. Remove from the heat,taste and adjust seasonings. 4. When the polenta is done, remove it from the oven and if desired, stir in the Parmesan. Spoon onto plates or wide bowls, make a depression in the middle with the back of your spoon and top with the tomato, eggplant and chickpeas mixture. Garnish with more fresh thyme and Parmesan, and a drizzle of olive oil if desired, and serve. Yield: Serves 6 Advance preparation: If you don’t use the millet right away, spread it in a parchment-lined sheet pan and refrigerate for 2 to 3 days. Cut into squares andheat through in a medium oven, then top with the sauce, which will also keep in the refrigerator for a couple of days. Nutritional information per serving: 291 calories; 9 grams fat; 2 grams saturated fat; 2 grams polyunsaturated fat; 4 grams monounsaturated fat; 5 milligrams cholesterol; 44 grams carbohydrates; 9 grams dietary fiber; 221 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 9 grams protein Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”    We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »