Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Lemon and Garlic Chicken With Spiced Spinach By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes  Spring Ramen Bowl With Snap Peas and Asparagus By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours healthy Provençal Greens Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes  Garlic Shrimp With Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes  Greek Stewed Green Beans and Yellow Squash With Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman About 55 minutes  Greens and Chayote Enchiladas With Salsa Verde By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours  Puréed Winter Squash and Red Lentil Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Roasted Cauliflower With Tahini-Parsley Sauce By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Broccoli, Quinoa and Purslane Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy Grapefruit Vinaigrette With Greens or Broccoli By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy Fennel, Kale and Rice Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 10 minutes plus 10 minutes cooling time  Broccoli Salad With Garlic and Sesame By Melissa Clark 10 minutes, plus marinating healthy Lemon and Garlic Chicken With Spiced Spinach By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes  Spring Ramen Bowl With Snap Peas and Asparagus By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours healthy Provençal Greens Soup By Martha Rose Shulman About 45 minutes  Garlic Shrimp With Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes  Greek Stewed Green Beans and Yellow Squash With Tomatoes By Martha Rose Shulman About 55 minutes  Greens and Chayote Enchiladas With Salsa Verde By Martha Rose Shulman About 2 hours  Puréed Winter Squash and Red Lentil Soup By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour 15 minutes healthy Roasted Cauliflower With Tahini-Parsley Sauce By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour healthy Broccoli, Quinoa and Purslane Salad By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy Grapefruit Vinaigrette With Greens or Broccoli By Martha Rose Shulman 15 minutes healthy Fennel, Kale and Rice Gratin By Martha Rose Shulman About 1 hour 10 minutes plus 10 minutes cooling time  Broccoli Salad With Garlic and Sesame By Melissa Clark 10 minutes, plus marinating healthy Lemon and Garlic Chicken With Spiced Spinach By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes  Spring Ramen Bowl With Snap Peas and Asparagus By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   One of my favorite Middle Eastern mezze is deep-fried cauliflower served with tahini garlic sauce. I decided to try the dish with broccoli, but instead of deep-frying the broccoli I roasted it, a method that requires a lot less oil. The buds on the broccoli florets toast to a crispy brown, and the texture of the stalk remains crisp. It goes wonderfully with the classic and irresistible tahini garlic sauce. 
Featured in: 
New Ways With Broccoli. 
   
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Vegan,
                    Dairy Free,
                    Kosher,
                    Mediterranean
 By Julia Moskin 2 hours By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/4 hours By Melissa Clark 40 minutes By Julia Moskin 25 minutes By Pierre Franey About 15 minutes By Mark Bittman About 45 minutes By Julia Moskin 45 minutes, plus 1 to 4 hours' chilling By Dorie Greenspan 1 hour, plus cooling Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Julia Moskin
         Cooking Guide 
          By Sam Sifton
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.