Success! This  is now saved to your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes here. This  is now saved to Your Recipe Box. Access all of your saved recipes in the menu. healthy Scrambled Eggs With Peppers, Tomatoes and Potatoes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking  Whole Wheat Pappardelle With Fava Purée By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours  Spring Ramen Bowl With Snap Peas and Asparagus By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours  Garlic Shrimp With Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Braised Halibut With Asparagus, Baby Potatoes and Saffron By Martha Rose Shulman 35 minutes easy Spicy Scrambled Eggs By Mark Bittman 20 minutes easy Poached Scrambled Eggs By Daniel Patterson 10 minutes healthy Tostadas With Sweet and Hot Peppers and Eggs By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Mexican Scrambled Eggs By Martha Rose Shulman About 20 minutes healthy Scrambled Eggs With Grated Zucchini By Martha Rose Shulman About 10 minutes healthy Scrambled Eggs With Peppers, Tomatoes and Potatoes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking  Whole Wheat Pappardelle With Fava Purée By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours  Spring Ramen Bowl With Snap Peas and Asparagus By Martha Rose Shulman 1 1/2 hours  Garlic Shrimp With Peas By Martha Rose Shulman 45 minutes easy Egg-in-a-Hole By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes  Braised Halibut With Asparagus, Baby Potatoes and Saffron By Martha Rose Shulman 35 minutes easy Spicy Scrambled Eggs By Mark Bittman 20 minutes easy Poached Scrambled Eggs By Daniel Patterson 10 minutes healthy Tostadas With Sweet and Hot Peppers and Eggs By Martha Rose Shulman About 30 minutes healthy Mexican Scrambled Eggs By Martha Rose Shulman About 20 minutes healthy Scrambled Eggs With Grated Zucchini By Martha Rose Shulman About 10 minutes healthy Scrambled Eggs With Peppers, Tomatoes and Potatoes By Martha Rose Shulman 1 hour easy Cherry Tabbouleh By Martha Rose Shulman 10 minutes, plus 20 to 30 minutes' soaking 
                    Andrew Scrivani for The New York Times
                   This dish, a classic piperade from southwestern France, is a great way to use those vitamin-rich peppers still abundant in farmers’ markets. You can mix and match peppers here. Just be sure to cook them for a long time so that their juices infuse the eggs. 
Featured in: 
Scrambled Eggs: Not Just For Breakfast. 
   

Learn: How to Cook Eggs
 
Vegetarian,
                    Healthy,
                    Gluten Free,
                    Bell Pepper,
                    Egg
 By Mark Bittman 40 minutes By Melissa Clark 5 minutes By Martha Rose Shulman 30 minutes By Sam Sifton 10 minutes By Melissa Clark 1 hour plus cooling By Julia Moskin 1 hour 15 minutes By Melissa Clark 20 minutes By Dorie Greenspan 1 hour 25 minutes Cooking Guide 
          By Julia Moskin
         Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Alison Roman
         Cooking Guide 
          By Melissa Clark
         Prior to receiving The New Essentials of French Cooking for free, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $1.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $4.99, please confirm your email address below. Prior to your purchase of The New Essentials of French Cooking for $9.99, please confirm your email address below. You now have full access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit. As appreciation for your interest, we're giving you free, unlimited access to The New Essentials of French Cooking. We've saved the recipes from this guide to your Recipe Box for easy access anytime you visit.