Advertisement By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.DEC. 30, 2013
 STANFORD, Calif. —  An unorthodox device for treating pelvic pain was recently approved by the Food and Drug Administration, and its inventors say it could help legions of men in misery from what are misdiagnosed as prostate problems. The therapeutic wand resembling a longshoreman’s cargo hook, but made of plastic, is used to gently press on “trigger points” in pelvic muscles that are in spasm. What makes it unorthodox is that men must insert it rectally; a small number of women use it vaginally. The treatment, known as the Stanford pelvic pain protocol or the Wise-Anderson protocol, includes extensive relaxation therapy and sessions of mapping the internal points to be stretched. “People who see us have failed all other treatments,” said David Wise, a psychologist, who devised the protocol with Dr. Rodney U. Anderson, an emeritus professor of urology at Stanford’s medical school, and Tim Sawyer, a physical therapist. Advertisement “They’ve been on antibiotics, anti-inflammatories, Flomax,” Dr. Wise continued. “Some have had wicked surgeries. Some have lived with pain for 20 years. Quite a few are mad at their doctors.” Advertisement Since 1995, the three men have taught the protocol to 2,500 patients; after clinical trials, the wand won F.D.A. approval late last year. As a treatment for pelvic pain, the technique has been accepted by the American Urological Association, said Dr. J. Stuart Wolf Jr., chairman of the association’s guidelines committee. The wand costs $800, but is available only as part of a set of training sessions. Its inventors hold six-day workshops for $4,300, but doctors and therapists in other cities and overseas set their own fees. Health insurers usually pay for the physical therapy but not the relaxation techniques or the wand itself, Dr. Wise said. Urologists frequently misdiagnose pelvic pain as a prostate problem, Dr. Anderson said. Cancer must be ruled out, of course, but the pain typically starts in a person’s 20s or 30s, when prostate cancer is uncommon. Wendy W. Isett, an association spokeswoman for the urology association, declined to comment on Dr. Anderson’s assertion, saying, “We do not have any reliable data on the diagnostic patterns.” Like tension headaches or nocturnal tooth grinding, the pain appears to be a response to stress. “In some men, stress makes them clench exactly the way a frightened dog does when it pulls its tail between its legs,” Dr. Wise said. “They get a charley horse in the pelvis, but one that can’t be stretched out.” Mr. Sawyer, the physical therapist, said that patients tended to be driven men, many of them athletic and in good health. The pain often begins after a personal failure like a divorce or a job loss. Advertisement The first twinge is sometimes described as a golf ball in the rectum or stab in the groin. It starts in the web of muscles that move the pelvis, push food through the intestines and control the bladder, sphincter and ejaculation, but can radiate to the back, the testicles or the penis. Sex, urination or bowel movements can set it off, and sitting, driving or even wearing underwear can become excruciating. Telephone interviews with nine male patients, who spoke on the condition that they be identified only by first name, echoed those descriptions. Most were professionals — physicians, lawyers or business executives. All had endured years of intermittent agony and had seen several doctors before hearing of the protocol, usually through a web search that turned up the book “A Headache in the Pelvis,” by Dr. Wise and Dr. Anderson, published in 2003. Several mentioned considering suicide. “I’m not depressive,” said Isaac, a lawyer in New York. “But I thought, I can’t live with this for the rest of my life. If I lost an arm, it would heal. But this was unrelenting.” All had been prescribed multiple drugs, including antibiotics, prostate-shrinking medicines, anti-inflammatories, antidepressants, anti-anxiety pills, vitamins, steroid injections, even methadone. “I consulted with several urologists,” said Allen, an internist in Los Angeles. “Almost to a man, they called it chronic prostatitis.” “In retrospect, it seems incredible,” he continued. “There was nothing wrong with my prostate.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Several said surgeons suggested operations, and two had surgery to sever ligaments around the pudendal nerve. “That not only didn’t help, but I got additional scrotal pain,” said Eric, a doctor in Washington. “That really scared me.” Advertisement Another patient had a hernia operation that found no hernia. Others have had a testicle removed, and one patient had his coccyx, or tailbone, removed, Dr. Wise said. Another had a colostomy because defecation was too painful. Several described explosions of agony the first time Mr. Sawyer touched their internal muscles. “My pain went through the roof,” said Al, who works in financial services in Los Angeles. “But that was a real light bulb going on — that’s where the pain was.” Trigger point therapy — pressing on knotted muscles to relax them — has been used by physical therapists for decades. (Acupressure, in Chinese medicine, uses similar points.) Dr. Janet Travell, the first woman to serve as White House physician, used trigger point therapy to treat President John F. Kennedy’s back pain; Mr. Sawyer studied under Dr. David G. Simons, a protégé of Dr. Travell. The germ of the protocol emerged in 1994, Dr. Wise said, as he visited yet another urologist during a flare-up of what by then was 22 years of pain. While trying to massage his prostate for fluid to test for bacteria or cancer, he said, the doctor pressed instead on the nearby levator ani muscles. “It was probably an accident,” Dr. Wise said, “But when I left, I was pain-free for a few days.” He began pressing the spot with one of his fingers, which was awkward, and consulted a therapist who treated women. He also used relaxation techniques he was trained in.. A year later he visited Dr. Anderson. In an interview in his house on the Stanford campus, Dr. Anderson said he saw patients “who were at their wits’ end, while their own urologists considered them a nuisance because they couldn’t help them.” Dr. Wise and Dr. Anderson formed a joint practice, later recruiting Mr. Sawyer. In a telephone interview, Mr. Sawyer said: “You think: Rectal exams? Jeez, that’s not what I got into this business for. But there was a need, and seeing the first 400 patients with internal trigger points convinced me it wasn’t crazy.” Advertisement In the beginning, men had to reach their own trigger points, see therapists frequently or ask someone for help. “We taught the spouses,” Dr. Wise said, “but it’s not the greatest thing for a marriage.” In 1996, they visited Good Vibrations, a San Francisco sex-toy emporium. “We were the only guys with ties and no tattoos,” he said. “But nothing was quite right. There were S-shaped glass things for stimulating the prostate, but they weren’t safe. People sometimes had to go to the E.R. to get them taken out.” So they commissioned the wand, a two-foot bend of medical-grade plastic with a fingertip-like rubber end and a pressure gauge to keep patients from pressing too hard. Up to 30 attend each California workshop, and several said they previously thought themselves alone in their suffering. “It’s not coffee-table talk, and no one’s wearing pink ribbons for it,” said John, a Memphis lawyer. “But tons of people have it.” A version of this article appears in print on December 31, 2013, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: A Fix for Stress-Related Pelvic Pain.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »