Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

FEB. 10, 2014
 This pot of beans was Step 1 for the other Recipes for Health this week. If I know that I’m going to use these beans for a Mexican dinner I season them with cilantro and, if I can find it, epazote. If I want Italian or Provençal flavors I make a bouquet garni with bay leaf, thyme, parsley, maybe sage, and most definitely a Parmesan rind. This week, since I am using my beans as a starting off point for other dishes, I season them only with onion, garlic, bay leaf and salt. The dishes that will follow throughout the week will introduce more flavors. Total time: 2 hours 15 minutes (includes 2 hours unsupervised simmering) 1 pound (about 2 1/4 cups) pinto beans, washed and picked over for stones, soaked for at least 4 hours or overnight in 2 quarts water 1 medium onion, cut in half 2 to 4 large garlic cloves (to taste), minced 1 bay leaf Salt to taste (I think beans need a lot, at least 1 teaspoon per quart of water used) 1. Place beans and soaking water in a large, heavy pot. Add halved onion and bring to a gentle boil. Skim off any foam that rises, then add garlic and bay leaf, reduce heat, cover and simmer 30 minutes. Advertisement 2. Add salt and continue to simmer another 1 to 1 1/2 hours, until beans are quite soft and broth is thick and fragrant. Taste and adjust salt. Using tongs or a slotted spoon, remove and discard onion and bay leaf. For the best flavor refrigerate overnight.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Yield: Serves 6 Advance preparation: The cooked beans will keep for 3 to 4 days in the refrigerator and freeze well. Advertisement Variation: If you are going to enjoy these beans on their own, I recommend chopping the onion and softening it in olive or vegetable oil, then adding the garlic and cooking until fragrant (30 to 60 seconds) before adding the soaked beans and water. Onions and garlic often come up as additional aromatics in the recipes that the beans will be used in. Nutritional information per serving: 254 calories; 1 gram fat; 0 grams saturated fat; 0 grams polyunsaturated fat; 0 grams monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 47 grams carbohydrates; 16 grams dietary fiber; 2 milligrams sodium (note: does not include salt to taste; add 387 milligrams per teaspoon of salt); 16 grams protein Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »