Advertisement 
The Week  By                     
DOUGLAS QUENQUA

JAN. 20, 2014
 There is no certainty in science, only knowns and unknowns. Last week, researchers reversed some conventional wisdom about trees. A shark species thought to be extinct turned up in a fish market — 48 times. And no one seemed sure how much to fear the chemical spilled into West Virginia drinking water. Just imagine what we won’t know next week. Developments Environment: Suspect Water in West Virginia Doubts remained about the safety of tap water in much of West Virginia after a chemical spill contaminated the supply for about 300,000 residents. The health effects of the chemical, MCHM, have not been widely studied, leaving officials to base their early recommendations on an unpublished study by the chemical’s manufacturer. Even as residents were slowly told they could begin using the water again, many remained leery. A Wetter Year, Except Out West The drought tormenting much of California and the Far West intensified last year, even as heavy precipitation east of the Rockies alleviated drought in the central and southeastern United States, according to the National Climatic Data Center’s annual review. Over all, 2013 was wetter than average for the contiguous 48 states, and almost three degrees cooler than 2012 (the hottest year on record). But California had its driest year ever. Mathematics: A Four-Winged Flying Jellyfish “What is the simplest scheme that could generate upward force?” This question, posed by two mathematicians at New York University’s Courant Institute, led to the creation of an apparently new kind of flying machine, a hovering, flapping, four-winged contraption that calls to mind a jellyfish. The researchers are still working on the math that would explain the device’s ability to remain upright while flying. Researchers have designed a flying machine that can stay aloft without fancy sensors or control mechanisms. Ecology: Trees Grow Faster With Age As trees get older, their growth rate accelerates, scientists reported in the journal Nature. Those findings support recent research contradicting the conventional wisdom that trees capture less carbon as they age. “It also means that big, old trees are better at absorbing carbon from the atmosphere than has been commonly assumed,” the study’s lead author said. Advertisement That may sound like good news for the atmosphere, which has higher levels  of CO2 than many scientists consider safe. But another of the authors made a sobering point: Old trees “can die and lose carbon back into the atmosphere as they decompose.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Marine Biology: ‘Extinct’ Shark Is Seen at Market It had been 106 years since scientists had seen a smoothtooth blacktip shark when Alec Moore, a conservationist and shark specialist, thought he spotted one in a Kuwaiti fish market in 2008. Later study confirmed that the specimen was a smoothtooth blacktip despite being nearly 2,000 miles from where the last, and only, carcharhinus leiodon had been found, reported Scientific American. That led to more exploration of the area’s fish markets, eventually turning up an additional 47 specimens. Now, researchers know quite a bit about the sharks, such as how they grow and how many pups they can bear. The hope is to use that knowledge to devise a conservation plan. Advertisement Coming Up Technology: Piling Up Snow in Balmy Sochi Known for its lush, subtropical climate, Sochi may seem an unlikely host for the Winter Olympics. Yet when the Games begin next month, the palm-tree-lined resort town on the Black Sea in southern Russia should be flush with snow, thanks to a state-of-the-art strategy, Popular Science reported. Snow Secure, a Finnish logistics company, has stashed 28 million cubic feet of artificial and real snow under thick reflective blankets to prevent melting, and kept 10 large snow guns blasting atomized water onto the ski jump 24 hours a day since December. And who knows? Maybe it will actually snow. A version of this article appears in print on January 21, 2014, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: ‘Extinct’ Shark Reappears, and Sochi Awaits Snow.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »