Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

MAY 2, 2014
 Inspired by the signature Provençal chard omelet called truccha, this beautiful baked frittata incorporates thick Greek yogurt and lots of green garlic. It will puff up in the oven, but then it settles back down. Use a generous bunch of chard for this – green, red or rainbow – and save the stalks to use in the chard stalk and chickpea purée that I’m also posting this week. I like to serve the frittata at room temperature, or I grab a cold slice for lunch. It’s a wonderfully portable dish. Total time: About 50 minutes 1 generous bunch Swiss chard (1 to 1 1/4 pounds with stems), either green, rainbow or red Salt to taste 2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 1 bulb green garlic, papery shells removed, chopped 1 teaspoon chopped fresh thyme 1 teaspoon chopped fresh rosemary 6 eggs 2/3 cup plain Greek yogurt or drained yogurt (2 percent or whole milk) Advertisement Freshly ground pepper 1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Bring a large pot of water to a boil. 2. Strip chard leaves from stems. Wash both leaves and stems thoroughly. Set aside stems for another purpose. You should have about 6 cups leaves, tightly packed. Advertisement 3. Add a generous amount of salt and the greens to the boiling water. Blanch greens for about 1 minute, until tender, and transfer to a bowl of cold water. Drain and take up chard by the handful to squeeze out excess water. Chop medium-fine. You should have about 1 1/2 cups chopped chard. 4. Heat 1 tablespoon of the olive oil over medium heat in a heavy skillet and add green garlic, thyme and rosemary. Add a generous pinch of salt and cook, stirring often, until the garlic is fragrant, 2 to 3 minutes. Add chopped chard and cook, stirring, until ingredients are combined and greens are nicely coated with oil. Remove from heat.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 5. Place remaining tablespoon of olive oil in a 2-quart gratin or baking dish, or in a 9-inch ovenproof skillet, and place in oven for 5 minutes. Meanwhile, whisk eggs in a large bowl. Season with salt (about 1/2 teaspoon) and freshly ground pepper to taste. Whisk in yogurt. Stir in greens mixture. 6. Remove baking dish from the oven, brush sides with hot oil, and scrape in the egg mixture. Place in oven and bake 30 minutes, or until set and slightly puffed. Remove from oven and allow to cool for at least 10 minutes before serving. Serve hot, warm, room temperature or cold. Yield: Serves 6 Advance preparation: The filling can be prepared through Step 4 up to 3 days ahead. The frittata keeps well for 2 or 3 days in the refrigerator. Nutritional information per serving: 149 calories; 10 grams fat; 3 grams saturated fat; 2 grams polyunsaturated fat; 5 grams monounsaturated fat; 188 milligrams cholesterol; 6 grams carbohydrates; 1 gram dietary fiber; 241 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 10 grams protein Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »