Advertisement By THE NEW YORK TIMESMAY 5, 2014
 Climate Change We Owe Our Humanity TO THE EDITOR: Re “What Does Today Owe Tomorrow?” (By Degrees, April 29): Perhaps what we owe future generations is our humanity. Some of life’s most important choices are not determined by momentary economic conditions but emanate from a fundamental ethical source within human beings. For millenniums we have striven to make the world better, to advance the lot of humanity, thinking not just of our own well-being but of that of those who follow. Advances in science, medicine, political organization, philosophy and, yes, even economics have been initiated with future beneficiaries in mind. The planet we hand off to future generations will mark us as either one of the most generous generations in history or one of the most selfish. Climate change demands a response from ethically-minded people. It is, I submit, in our very nature to do so. Carl Zichella Davis, Calif. Materials Looks Like a Phone Line TO THE EDITOR: Re “A Rubber Band With a Surprising Twist” (Observatory, April 29): The hemihelix may rarely be seen in nature, but for us older folk with landline phones, we see them every day in all our phone cords. The Harvard researchers must be of the younger generation. Robert W. Mitchell Westport, Conn. Software Gauging Pain TO THE EDITOR: Re “A Truth-Teller for Fake Pain” (April 29): As a student nurse, I have learned that hospital patients are often feeling vulnerable and scared. Nurses have to be skilled at quickly building rapport and trust with patients. When we validate a patient’s experience of pain by responding with compassion, medication or nonpharmacological therapy, we build trust and increase patient satisfaction, regardless of the veracity of her claim. Use of a computer in the place of, or in addition to, self-reporting is likely to result in distrust of providers. Kevin Miles San Francisco TO THE EDITOR: Pain has complex causes and modes of relief that facial recognition software and opioids alone may never capture. In nursing school we are taught that pain is what the patient says it is, yet I have seen nurses struggle with this idea, for fear that someone is faking. I have heard doctors and nurses stereotype and discriminate against patients for drug-seeking behavior in ways that might make me welcome a more objective computer assessment of patient pain. But because of nurses’ primary and direct role in pain management, any development of new pain assessment measures needs to include the nursing perspective. Sarah Comey Cluff San Francisco Star Wars Day Science Meets Fiction Just to prove it’s not all serious science over at NASA, the agency put out this and several other “shareables,” including a video from the International Space Station, on Sunday to commemorate Star Wars Day — May the Fourth, of course.  
            A galaxy far, far away... 35 million light-years away http://t.co/CZJVjFyo2h #MayThe4thBeWithYou #HappyStarWarsDay pic.twitter.com/cSj2dDV7Zg  
            Space station is caught flying by the moon! http://t.co/ls3lgXgHWO #ISS #MayThe4thBeWithYou #HappyStarWarsDay pic.twitter.com/yzLvTpTto1  Science Times welcomes letters, comments on nytimes.com and social media posts from readers. Email should be sent to scitimes@nytimes.com. A version of this letter appears in print on May 6, 2014, on Page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: A Debt to the Future, Face of Pain, Science Meets Fiction.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »