Advertisement By JASCHA HOFFMANAPRIL 28, 2014
 May events at the intersection of art and science. ART Compounding Visions: The Art of Ryan and Trevor Oakes. National Museum of Mathematics, 11 East 26th Street, Manhattan. Opens May 10 at 6:30 p.m. Talks on May 27 and June 17. $15. As children in the back seat, Trevor and Ryan Oakes noticed that when they focused on the horizon, bugs on the windshield seemed to split in two. Twenty-odd years later these identical twins are still investigating the intricacies of visual perception. This show pulls back the curtain on a decade of their optical obsession. To avoid the distortions that occur when the world is traced onto a flat canvas, the twins have built a concave metal easel that allows them to sketch directly onto the inside of a sphere. Rather than using lenses or mirrors to project an image onto canvas, as the Renaissance masters did, the twins have devised an ultra-low-tech method for sketching from life: they cross their eyes until an object floats onto their paper’s edge — and then they trace it. Visitors can marvel at the plaster helmet (dubbed an “optical cockpit” by the show’s curator, Lawrence Weschler) where the twins have spent hours with their eyes out of stereo alignment, reproducing skylines and courtyards into curved paper with a supernatural sense of depth and perspective. During the exhibition, the twins will haul their curved easel outside the museum to trace the Flatiron building with their cross-eyed technique. “Our subject matter is as much an eye looking as the thing being looked at,” said Trevor. Ryan added, “We’re dissecting what it feels like to have two eyes.” SCULPTURE Edward Tufte: The Cognitive Art of Feynman Diagrams. Fermilab Art Gallery, Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory, near Batavia, Ill. Public tours on May 10 and 24, June 7 and 21; other times by appointment (georgia@fnal.gov) through June 26. Free. The squiggly diagrams that Richard Feynman devised to show the behavior of subatomic particles are a triumph of simple and elegant design. So it’s fitting that Edward Tufte, the statistician whose critiques of charts and graphs have shaped the field of information design, should take an interest in them. This exhibition at Fermilab includes 120 small wire sculptures showing “all possible space-time paths” of six colliding photons. In a lighthearted nod to Dr. Feynman, who died in 1988 (and who painted the diagrams on his yellow Dodge Maxivan, also on display), Mr. Tufte has created the “Airstream Interplanetary Explorer,” a gleaming chrome trailer with three Feynman diagrams mounted on its side. In a statement, the artist explains his belief that, to prove our intelligence to inquisitive aliens, we should inscribe our spacecraft not with “the local proper nouns of national flags” but “the cosmopolitan verbs of Nature’s laws.” Advertisement MUSIC Living Symphonies. Begins in Thetford Forest, near Thetford, England, on May 24. Free. Living Symphonies is a sound installation which grows in the same way as a forest ecosystem. Portraying the thriving activity of the forest’s wildlife, plants and atmospheric conditions, it creates a never-ending symphony heard amongst the forest itself. For his classic work “Peter and the Wolf,"Sergei Prokofiev gave the creatures of the forest their own musical themes. In this wilderness sound installation, to will travel across Britain this summer, the artists Daniel Jones and James Bulley take this concept into the 21st century. Starting with data on wildlife behavior in each forest, they devised a computer program that simulates interactions between creatures and turns them into music, which emerges from speakers hidden in the undergrowth and treetops. Advertisement WORKSHOP Neuroscience for the 99 Percent Lecture (May 2 at 8 p.m., $5) and DIY Neuroscience Make-and-Take Workshop (May 3 at 3 p.m., $50-$100). GenSpace, 33 Flatbush Avenue, Brooklyn. This Brooklyn workshop offers a taste of the do-it-yourself future of neuroscience. It is offered by Greg Gage, a founder of Backyard Brains, a company that uses low-cost equipment to allow children to experiment on common insects. Dr. Gage will ask participants to build their own “SpikerBox,” a homemade amplifier that costs less than $100, to measure the voltage moving through an earthworm axon, and the effects of neurotoxins like nicotine and MSG on cricket brains. He also plans to test-drive a remote-controlled cockroach. In the coming months, Dr. Gage hopes to unveil an EEG-style brain cap, cheap voltage-sensitive dyes and a budget version of a technique called optogenetics, which allows neurons to be turned on and off quickly by exposing them to light. “It’s hard to make something simple and cheap,” he said, but “there is joy in making low-cost versions of these complex technologies.” A version of this list appears in print on April 29, 2014, on Page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: Science Events: Unusual Vision and D.I.Y. Neuroscience.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »