Advertisement By DOUGLAS QUENQUAAPRIL 28, 2014
 Male researchers may want to bring a female chaperone when working with rodents, a new study suggests: Rats and mice experience more stress in the presence of men than of women. Rodents left alone in a room with a man, or presented with a T-shirt worn by a man, had a sharp spike in the stress hormone corticosterone. And because the hormone acts as an analgesic, they also showed less response to pain. The rodents showed no such reaction to women; they were also less stressed when given a woman’s shirt together with a man’s. The amount of stress felt by the rodents was “massive,” said Jeffrey Mogil, a psychologist at McGill University and an author of the study, comparable with being “in a very small tube so the mouse can’t move for 15 minutes.” The findings, published in Nature Methods, could have far-reaching repercussions for research. Rodents account for more than 95 percent of all lab animals, according to the National Association of Biomedical Research. If a researcher’s sex might affect results, it should be considered a confounding factor, Dr. Mogil said. Advertisement And the effects may not be limited to living animals. “Consider a study on liver physiology,” Dr. Mogil said. “What if those liver cells came from a rat who, at the moment of sacrifice, had really high stress levels because it was killed by a man, or low because it was killed by a woman?” To reduce such effects, Dr. Mogil recommends that researchers start noting their sex in the method sections of their papers. “The ideal solution would be for the male researchers to sit in the room with the rodents for 30 to 60 minutes before conducting experiments,” because the stress effects do ease over time, he said. “But no one is going to do that.” Advertisement  DOUGLAS QUENQUA A version of this article appears in print on April 29, 2014, on Page D4 of the New York edition with the headline: For Lab Rats, a ‘Male Scientist’ Effect.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »