Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

JULY 16, 2014
 Shopping for ingredients for this week’s recipes in my farmers’ market, I found young, tender snap peas that were almost as delicate as snow peas. I had part of a bunch of Swiss chard and used both vegetables. I like using turkey breast cutlets in stir-fries; they’ve already been cut to a uniform thickness, so all you need to do is slice them across the grain to get even pieces that cook in minutes. Cooking time: About 7 minutes 1 pound turkey cutlets, cut across the grain in thin (1/4 to 1/2-inch) slices Salt and freshly ground pepper 1 to 2 tablespoons soy sauce (to taste) 1 tablespoon Chinese cooking sherry (Shaoxing rice wine) or dry sherry 1/4 cup vegetable stock or water 1/4 to 1/2 teaspoon salt (to taste) 1/4 to 1/2 teaspoon sugar (to taste) Advertisement 1 teaspoon cornstarch or arrowroot dissolved in 1/2 cup vegetable stock, chicken stock or water 2 tablespoons peanut, canola, sunflower, or grape seed oil Advertisement 1 tablespoon minced garlic 1 tablespoon minced ginger 3/4 pound sugar snap peas or snow peas, strings and stems removed 1 bunch scallions, white and green parts separated, minced 1/2 pound Swiss chard, stemmed, leaves washed in 2 changes of water and chopped (about 3 cups), stems diced  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 1/2 cup chopped cilantro 1. Season sliced turkey cutlets with salt and pepper. In a small bowl or measuring cup combine soy sauce, rice wine or sherry, and stock or water. Put salt and sugar in another container, and place it and the other ingredients near your burner. 2. Heat a 14-inch flat-bottomed wok or 12-inch steel skillet over high heat until a drop of water evaporates within a second or two when added to the pan. Add 1 tablespoon of the oil to the wok or pan and swirl to coat the sides, then add sliced turkey cutlets in one layer. Let sit untouched for about 30 seconds, then stir-fry until lightly colored and no pink is visible, about 2 to 2 1/2 minutes. Remove to a plate. 3. Swirl in remaining oil, add garlic and ginger and stir-fry for no more than 10 seconds. Add sugar snap peas and white parts of scallions and stir-fry for 1 minute. Add chard, salt and sugar and stir-fry for about 1 minute, until chard wilts. Return turkey to wok and add soy sauce mixture. Stir-fry for 1 to 2 minutes, until vegetables are crisp-tender and turkey cooked through. Add cilantro, scallion greens, and cornstarch slurry. Stir until mixture is lightly glazed, and remove from the heat. Serve with hot grains or noodles. Yield: Serves 4 Advance preparation: You can prepare your ingredients and refrigerate several hours ahead. Variation: Substitute 14 ounces firm tofu (1 box) for the turkey. Cut the tofu in dominoes, pat dry with paper towels and proceed with recipe.  Nutritional information per serving: 270 calories; 8 grams fat; 2 grams saturated fat; 3 grams polyunsaturated fat; 3 grams monounsaturated fat; 70 milligrams cholesterol; 16 grams carbohydrates; 6 grams dietary fiber; 432 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 32 grams protein. Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »