Advertisement JULY 14, 2014
 1 QUIET by Susan Cain. Crown. Introverts — one-third of the population — are undervalued in American society. (1) 2 DAVID AND GOLIATH by Malcolm Gladwell. Little Brown. How disadvantages can work in our favor, from the author of “The Tipping Point” and “Outliers.” (3) 3 THINKING, FAST AND SLOW by Daniel Kahneman. Farrar, Straus and Giroux. A winner of a Nobel in economic science discusses how we make choices in business and personal life and when we can and cannot trust our intuition. (2) 4 HOW NOT TO BE WRONG by Jordan Ellenberg. Penguin Press. A mathematician shows how his discipline helps us think about problems of politics, medicine and commerce. Advertisement 5 THE POWER OF HABIT by Charles Duhigg. Random House. A New York Times reporter’s account of the science behind forming habits, and breaking them. (4) Advertisement 6 THE IMMORTAL LIFE OF HENRIETTA LACKS by Rebecca Skloot. Crown. The story of an African-American woman whose cancerous cells were extensively cultured without her permission in 1951. (6) 7 STUFF MATTERS by Mark Miodownik. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. From concrete to porcelain: an exploration of the myriad materials that shape the man-made world. 8 THE GIRLS OF ATOMIC CITY by Denise Kiernan. Simon & Schuster. Thousands of women took well-paid jobs in Oak Ridge, Tenn., during World War II, not knowing that the government project where they worked was enriching uranium for the first atomic bomb. (8) 9 PROOF: THE SCIENCE OF BOOZE by Adam Rogers. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. The biochemical complexities of fermentation, distillation, aging and experience of spirits. 10 THE SPORTS GENE by David Epstein. Current. A study of the science of elite athletic performance addresses questions about whether athletic skill is innate or can be learned. (15) 11 THE FUTURE OF THE MIND by Michio Kaku. Doubleday. A theoretical physicist examines research at the intersection of neuroscience and physics that points to the day when science has a complete map of the brain, making telepathy, mind-controlled robots and uploading memories possible. (12)  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 12 ANIMAL MADNESS by Laurel Braitman. Simon & Schuster. How anxious dogs, compulsive parrots and elephants in recovery help us to understand ourselves. 13 GULP by Mary Roach. Norton. A science writer’s pilgrimage down the digestive tract; by the author of “Stiff,” “Spook,” “Bonk” and “Packing for Mars.” (11) Advertisement 14 LIFE, ANIMATED by Ron Suskind. Hyperion/Kingswell. The parents of an autistic son successfully employed animated heroes and sidekicks to achieve communication with him. (10) 15 EXPLORERS by Martin Dugard. Simon & Schuster. The author describes the seven character traits shared by all great explorers, many of whom, he says, are fearless outcasts and blundering geniuses. 16 THE TALE OF THE DUELING NEUROSURGEONS by Sam Kean. Little Brown. Tales of neurological curiosities and adaptations, like phantom limbs to blind people who see through their tongues. (20) 17 THE BOY WHO HARNESSED THE WIND by William Kamkwamba and Bryan Mealer. Harper Perennial. A dream of electricity becomes reality. 18 KNOCKING ON HEAVEN’S DOOR by Katy Butler. Scribner. What happens when the fear of death collides with the technological imperatives of modern medicine. 19 JENNIFER’S WAY by Jennifer Esposito. Da Capo Lifelong Books. The actress shares her lifelong struggles with celiac disease and medical diagnosis and support. 20 SALLY RIDE by Lynn Sherr. Simon & Schuster. A portrait of the astronaut who was the first American woman in space, by an ABC News reporter who covered NASA. The titles ranked here are selected by the science editors from all adult nonfiction books reported to The New York Times for the month. These titles are fundamentally based on the sciences; those for which science is more tangential or peripheral are generally excluded. Rankings reflect combined print and e-book sales for June 2014. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book’s sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (†) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. A version of this list appears in print on July 15, 2014, on Page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: Science Best Sellers.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »