Advertisement By KENNETH CHANGJULY 8, 2011
 KENNEDY SPACE CENTER, Fla. — For the last time, the engines of a space shuttle roared, the ground rumbled, and the shuttle Atlantis rose off the launching pad and disappeared into the clouds. By dawn Friday, cars and Winnebagos lined the sides of roadways with prime views as hundreds of thousands of people came to watch the 135th flight in the space shuttle program. The program, which began in 1981, comes to an end when the Atlantis’ wheels roll to a stop on the runway in two weeks. According to NASA, the luminaries who came included Joe Gibbs, the former Washington Redskins football coach; Steve Wozniak, co-founder of Apple Computer; and the singer Jimmy Buffett. So did 14 members of Congress; John Holdren, the president’s science adviser; Eric Holder, the United States attorney general; Adm. Michael Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; and two former NASA administrators, Daniel Goldin and Michael Griffin. And Robert L. Crippen, a retired Navy captain who was the pilot of the first shuttle flight, came to watch the last one. Advertisement The last shuttle flight also contained a piece of the first flight. The shuttle’s solid rocket boosters are recovered and refurbished, and the top segment of the left booster that helped lift the Atlantis off the ground on Friday first flew on the first flight, on April 12, 1981. Advertisement The Atlantis is carrying 8,000 pounds of supplies and spare parts to the International Space Station. With storms rumbling around the area, forecasts had given just a 30 percent chance of favorable weather for the launching of the Atlantis. “We had a decent shot at it,” Michael D. Leinbach, the shuttle launching director, said, explaining the decision early Friday to begin pumping more than half a million gallons of rocket fuel into the external fuel tank despite the uncertain forecast. The rain stayed away, the clouds thinned, and the countdown, which encountered no significant setbacks, continued. The space shuttle Atlantis lifted off from the Kennedy Space Center on Friday. Courtesy of Reuters. “Good luck, Godspeed and have a little fun up there,” Mr. Leinbach said to the crew after his team gave the go-ahead for the final few minutes of countdown. The commander of Atlantis, Capt. Christopher J. Ferguson of the Navy, thanked Mr. Leinbach and the launching team. Noting the end of the shuttle era, he added: “The shuttle is always going to be a reflection of what a great nation can do when it dares to be bold and commits to follow through. We’re not ending the journey today, Mike, we’re completing a chapter in a journey that will never end.” At 31 seconds before the scheduled liftoff, the countdown clock halted. An electronic signal indicated that the “beanie cap” that vents oxygen gas from the external fuel tank had failed to retract. But by looking at video images, mission controllers confirmed that the arm had indeed fully retracted.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. At 11:29 a.m. — two and a half minutes later than scheduled — the engines of the Atlantis ignited to propel it to orbit with its crew of four: Capt. Ferguson; Col. Douglas G. Hurley of the Marines; Sandra H. Magnus; and Rex J. Walheim, a retired Air Force colonel. After a minute, the shuttle, leaving behind a thick plume of smoke, disappeared into the clouds. Although the spacecraft was out of sight, the still-rising plume cast a shadow onto the clouds to mark its trajectory to space, and the Atlantis reached orbit in eight and a half minutes. Advertisement The astronauts will spend Saturday inspecting the heat shield and are to dock at the space station on Sunday. The mission is scheduled to last 12 days, with Atlantis returning to Earth on July 20, but NASA officials hope to stretch out the last flight one additional day. At a post-launching news conference, NASA officials repeated assertions that the end of the space shuttle program does not mean the end of human spaceflight and that American astronauts will continue to travel to the International Space Station, albeit on Russian rockets for at least several years. “You can’t do something else, you can’t do something better, unless you go through change,” said Robert D. Cabana, director of the Kennedy Space Center. Once the Atlantis had reached orbit and their job was done, members of the launching team lingered in the control room, Mr. Leinbach said. “It seemed we didn’t want to leave,” he said. “It was like the end of a party, and you just don’t want to go. You just want to hang around a little bit longer and relish our friends and what we’ve accomplished.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »