Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

JUNE 23, 2014
 I had initially envisioned a salad in which the asparagus was cut into short lengths and tossed with the quinoa. But the colorful asparagus got lost in the quinoa, and since I love the look of the bright green asparagus against the red grain (O.K., “pseudograin”), I remade this and  garnished it with the steamed asparagus. The quinoa, tossed with chives, parsley, walnuts and a lemony vinaigrette, is sprinkled with dukkah before serving, a surprising touch. Total time: About 15 minutes 3/4 pound asparagus, trimmed 3 cups cooked red quinoa 1/4 cup minced chives 1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley 2 tablespoons broken walnuts 2 teaspoons dukkah For the dressing: 2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice 1 small garlic clove, minced or pureed 1 teaspoon Dijon mustard Salt to taste 5 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil Advertisement 1 tablespoon walnut oil Freshly ground pepper 1. Steam asparagus for 3 to 4 minutes (4 if thick, 3 if thin) above 1 inch of boiling water. Remove from heat, rinse with cold water, drain and dry on dish towels, and set aside. Advertisement 2. Combine quinoa, chives, parsley and walnuts in a large bowl. 3. In a small bowl or measuring cup whisk together lemon juice, garlic, mustard, salt, and oils. Taste and adjust seasonings. Add to quinoa mixture along with freshly ground pepper to taste, and toss together.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 4. Spoon quinoa onto plates or into bowls. Top each serving with 1/2 teaspoon dukkah. Garnish with asparagus spears and serve. Yield: Serves 4 Advance preparation: The salad can be assembled through Step 2 hours before serving and refrigerated. Toss with the dressing just before serving. Nutritional information per serving: 400 calories; 26 grams fat; 3 grams saturated fat; 8 grams polyunsaturated fat; 15 grams monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 35 grams carbohydrates; 6 grams dietary fiber; 55 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 9 grams protein Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”   We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »