Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

JUNE 23, 2014
 I love the versatility of quinoa. It can be the building-block ingredient for a salad, as it is in this main-dish salad, or it can be added to salads in smaller amounts, almost as a garnish. Its grassy flavor marries well with cilantro, itself an herb with a grassy, though more pungent, taste. I added sieved hard-boiled eggs for protein – though you could leave them out if you want to make a vegan version of this dish, and toasted pumpkin seeds for crunch. Another ingredient that contributes crunch as well as color is the soaked split red lentils. They also contribute more protein to an already high-protein grain. They are optional – make this salad whether or not you have the lentils. Total time: About 10 minutes with already cooked quinoa 2 1/2 cups cooked quinoa 1 1/2 cups steamed broccoli florets (about 1/3 of a crown), steamed for 4 to 5 minutes then separated into smaller florets 1/2 cup chopped cilantro 1 to 2 tablespoons toasted pumpkin seeds (to taste) 1 1/2 to 2 teaspoons minced serrano or jalapeño chili (to taste) Advertisement 1/4 cup split red lentils, soaked for 2 hours or longer and drained (optional) 1 ounce crumbled feta cheese (1/4 cup) Advertisement Freshly ground pepper 3 tablespoons fresh lime juice Salt to taste 1 garlic clove, minced or pureed 6 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 2 hard-boiled eggs 1 avocado, sliced 1. In a large bowl, combine quinoa, broccoli, cilantro, pumpkin seeds, minced green chile, red lentils if using, feta and freshly ground pepper. Toss together.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 2. In a small bowl or measuring cup whisk together lime juice, salt, and garlic. Add olive oil and whisk until amalgamated. Add to salad and toss together well. Taste and adjust seasoning. 3. Put hard-boiled eggs through a sieve and sprinkle over salad. Season if desired with salt and pepper. Garnish each serving with a few slices of avocado. Yield: Serves 4 Advance preparation: The ingredients can be combined several hours before you toss with the dressing. Keep in the refrigerator. Nutritional information per serving: 481 calories; 35 grams fat; 6 grams saturated fat; 6 grams polyunsaturated fat; 23 grams monounsaturated fat; 99 milligrams cholesterol; 33 grams carbohydrates; 8 grams dietary fiber; 139 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 12 grams protein Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”   We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »