Advertisement Supported by Recipes for Health By Martha Rose Shulman If you want to indulge in chocolate-chip cookies that taste like chocolate-chip cookies but have some wholesome ingredients thrown in, here’s your recipe. I use as much chocolate in these as I use in Sherry Yard’s Quintessential Chocolate Chip-Cookies (isn’t it great that chocolate offers us healthful phytonutrients?) but I’ve reduced the sugar by 25 percent and added a good measure of rolled oats and sunflower, chia and pumpkin seeds. I’ve made the cookies using half whole-wheat flour and using all unbleached all-purpose flour, and I prefer the whole-wheat version – and not just because it’s healthier:The nutty flavor of the flour complements the nutty flavor of the seeds. You could soak the seeds, but you’ll have to take the time to dry them completely in a low oven; otherwise they will contribute too much moisture and the cookies won’t brown properly. Total time: About 45 minutes 50 grams sunflower seeds (approximately 1/4 cup plus 2 teaspoons) 50 grams rolled oats (approximately scant 1/2 cup) 25 grams pumpkin seeds (approximately 2 heaped tablespoons) 12 grams chia seeds (approximately 1 tablespoon) 60 grams whole-wheat flour (approximately 1/2 cup) 65 grams all-purpose flour (approximately 1/2 cup; or use all all-purpose flour) 2 grams baking soda (approximately 1/2 teaspoon) 115 grams unsalted butter (4 ounces /1 stick) 50 grams organic sugar (approximately 1/4 cup) 80 grams light brown sugar (approximately 1/2 cup packed) 2 grams fine sea salt (approximately 1/4 teaspoon) 55 grams egg (1 egg) 5 grams vanilla (approximately 1 teaspoon) 225 grams (8 ounces) bittersweet chocolate cut in 1/2-inch pieces, or the equivalent amount of chips, more if desired 1. Sift together flours and baking soda and set aside. In bowl of a standing electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, cream butter until lemony yellow, about 2 minutes. Scrape down sides of the bowl and paddle. Add organic sugar, brown sugar, and salt. Continue creaming mixture on medium speed until it is smooth and lump-free, about 1 minute. Stop mixer and scrape down sides of the bowl and the paddle. 2. Add egg and vanilla and beat on low speed for 15 seconds, or until they are fully incorporated. Do not over-beat. Scrape down sides of the bowl and paddle. 3. On low speed, add sifted flour mixture. Beat slowly until all of the flour is incorporated. Scrape down sides of bowl. Add seeds, oatmeal and chocolate chunks and mix in. 4. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees with racks adjusted to the lower third and middle of the oven. Line two baking sheets with parchment. Spoon heaped teaspoons (or use a 1-inch scoop) of dough 2 inches apart onto prepared baking sheets. 5. Bake 14 to 15 minutes, until lightly browned, rotating baking sheets from top to bottom and from front to back halfway through the baking. Remove from oven and slide parchment off the baking sheet and onto a work surface. Allow cookies to cool for at least 10 minutes before serving, or for at least 20 minutes before storing in an air-tight container. Note: For flat, crispy cookies, when you go to turn the baking sheets back to front halfway through the baking, tap them on the back of the oven door before sliding them back in. This will cause the rising cookies to fall. Yield: About 60 cookies Advance preparation: The cookies will keep for up to 3 days at room temperature. Nutritional information per cookie: 61 calories; 4 grams fat; 2 grams saturated fat; 1 gram polyunsaturated fat; 1 gram monounsaturated fat; 7 milligrams cholesterol; 6 grams carbohydrates; 1 gram dietary fiber; 25 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 1 gram protein Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”     Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS