Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

APRIL 4, 2014
 Black rice is inky, as black as squid ink, and glistens against a bed of spinach. The pigments provide anthocyanins, flavonoids that are high in antioxidants. I was inspired to cook the rice with lentils by a pilaf that I ate recently at the “Healthy Kitchens, Healthy Lives” conference at the Culinary Institute of America in Napa Valley. In addition to the familiar green or black lentils, I’ve thrown in uncooked split red lentils, which contribute their own soft salmon color and crunch; they are soaked for a few hours to soften them, and that’s all they need. Prepare the ingredients for the salad while the rice and lentils are cooking. Total time: About 1 hour, including the simmering time for the rice and lentils 1 cup black rice 1/2 cup black (beluga) or green lentils, washed and picked over 2 3/4 cups water Salt to taste 1/3 cup olive oil 2 to 3 garlic cloves (to taste), minced 1 teaspoon freshly ground cumin seeds 3/4 teaspoon freshly ground coriander seeds 1/4 teaspoon freshly ground cardamom seeds Salt and freshly ground pepper to taste Advertisement 1/4 cup chopped cilantro 1/4 cup chopped fresh mint or parsley, or a combination 1/4 cup chopped dill 1/4 cup chopped chives or green onions Advertisement 1/4 cup soaked split red lentils* 3 tablespoons fresh lemon juice 1 bunch spinach, stemmed, washed thoroughly in 2 changes water and dried, or 1 bag baby spinach, rinsed and dried 4 or 5 radishes, sliced, for garnish *To make soaked lentils, cover with water and soak for 2 hours or longer. Drain. Store what you don’t use in the refrigerator and add to salads.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 1. Rinse rice and green or black lentils and combine in a medium saucepan with 2 3/4 cups water or enough to cover by 1 inch. Bring to a boil, add salt to taste (I use about 1 teaspoon), reduce heat and simmer 30 to 35 minutes, until rice and lentils are tender but not mushy. Place a strainer over a bowl and drain if there is still liquid in the pan (I like to add the broth to soups; you could also add some to the salad). Return lentils and rice to the saucepan and place a dishtowel across top of the pan. Return lid and let sit for 10 to 15 minutes. Transfer to a bowl. 2. Combine 3 tablespoons of the olive oil and garlic in a small frying pan or saucepan over medium heat. When garlic begins to sizzle, add spices. Stir together for about 30 seconds or until very fragrant, then remove from the heat and add to rice and lentils. Add chopped herbs, soaked red lentils, and 2 tablespoons of the lemon juice. Taste and adjust salt. 3. Whisk together remaining lemon juice and olive oil. Add salt and pepper to taste and toss with the spinach. Line a platter or wide bowl with the spinach, top with the rice and lentils, garnish with sliced radishes, and serve. Yield: Serves 6 Advance preparation: The cooked rice and lentils will keep for 3 or 4 days in the refrigerator. Nutritional information per serving (6 servings): 330 calories; 14 grams fat; 2 grams saturated fat; 3 grams polyunsaturated fat; 9 grams monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 45 grams carbohydrates; 7 grams dietary fiber; 39 grams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 12 grams protein Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »