Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

APRIL 14, 2014
 I have been making tomatillo and avocado salsa for years, but I usually simmer the tomatillos rather than roasting them. Roasting the tomatillos, chiles and garlic – toasting really, as I use a skillet for this, on top of the flame – produces a salsa with a delicious charred flavor. I learned something recently from the chef Iliana de la Vega, who demonstrated the recipe at the “Healthy Kitchens, Healthy Lives” conference in Napa Valley in March: she says, in no uncertain terms, that you should not add water to tomatillo salsas. Without the water, this is a more intense salsa with pleasing density. You can use it as a sauce to serve with chicken or fish, or as a dip with chips or other vegetables. Total time: about 25 minutes 1 pound tomatillos, husked 1 to 2 serrano chiles (to taste), stems removed 1 medium garlic clove, unpeeled 1 slice white or red onion 1/2 cup chopped cilantro, with stems 1 medium avocado Salt to taste 1. Heat a heavy cast-iron skillet or griddle over medium-high heat. Place tomatillos in pan and toast until charred on 1 side, about 10 minutes for a medium or large tomatillo. The color in the middle should be fading from pale green to olive. Turn tomatillos over and continue to grill until charred on the other side, about 10 minutes, but not for so long that they burst. Transfer to a bowl and allow to cool. Advertisement 2. Place chile(s), garlic clove and onion slice in skillet and toast, turning often, until chile is lightly charred and garlic is charred in spots and softened. The onion should be lightly colored on both sides but not charred black (that will make it bitter). Remove from heat. Peel the garlic and transfer, with the onion and chiles, to a blender. Add tomatillos and any liquid that may have accumulated in the bowl. Advertisement 3. Add remaining ingredients to blender and blend until smooth. Taste, adjust seasoning, and serve. Variation: You can also sear the salsa for another layer of flavor. Heat 1 tablespoon grapeseed or canola oil in a heavy skillet until rippling and add the salsa. It should sizzle immediately. Stir for a couple of minutes, until it has thickened slightly and leaves a canal when you run your spatula or spoon down the center of the pan. Remove from the heat, transfer to a bowl, and serve.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Yield: About 2 cups, serving 6 to 8 Advance preparation: This will keep for 1 1/2 days, but keep it covered with the plastic resting on the surface of the salsa. Nutritional information per serving (6 servings): 81 calories; 6 grams fat; 1 gram saturated fat; 2 grams polyunsaturated fat; 3 grams monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 8 grams carbohydrates; 4 grams dietary fiber; 4 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 2 grams protein Nutritional information per serving (8 servings): 61 calories; 4 grams fat; 1 gram saturated fat; 1 gram polyunsaturated fat; 3 grams monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 6 grams carbohydrates; 3 grams dietary fiber; 3 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 1 gram protein Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »