Advertisement 
Recipes for Health  By                     
MARTHA ROSE SHULMAN

APRIL 14, 2014
 This is based on a recipe in Kim Sunée’s wonderful new book, “A Mouthful of Stars” (Andrews McMeel). Her recipe is more of a salad, a fusion of Thai and Mexican flavors. I loved the idea of combining avocado and papaya, two subtle, creamy fruits, with crunchy, bright-tasting Asian pears and spicy chiles. The first time I saw the recipe I wanted to test it right away, but I didn’t have Asian pears. So I used an apple, and loved it. It’s the sweet, crunchy fruit that does the trick, and apples and Asian pears both work. There are onions in the original recipe but I’ve made them optional. Total time: About 20 minutes 2 medium-size ripe Hass avocados, halved, pitted and cut in small dice 1 small ripe papaya, halved, seeded, peeled and cut in small dice (about 2 cups dice) 1 tart apple, unpeeled, or Asian pear, peeled if desired, cored and cut in small dice 1/4 cup freshly squeezed lime juice 1 fresh red or green serrano chile, seeded and thinly sliced or minced, or more to taste 1/4 cup chopped cilantro Advertisement 2 tablespoons chopped fresh mint 1/2 small red onion, diced small, soaked for 5 minutes in water to cover, drained and rinsed (optional) Advertisement Salt to taste 1. Combine diced avocados and papaya in a medium bowl. Add remaining ingredients and toss together. Season to taste with salt. Serve as a salad or a salsa.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Yield: Serves 6 to 8 Advance preparation: This will last for a couple of hours but is best eaten shortly after assembling. Nutritional information per serving (6 servings): 142 calories; 10 grams fat; 1 gram saturated fat; 2 grams polyunsaturated fat; 7 grams monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 15 grams carbohydrates; 6 grams dietary fiber; 9 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 2 grams protein Nutritional information per serving (8 servings): 107 calories; 7 grams fat; 1 gram saturated fat; 1 gram polyunsaturated fat; 5 grams monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 11 grams carbohydrates; 4 grams dietary fiber; 7 grams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 1 gram protein Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”  We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »