Advertisement 
Observatory  By                     
SINDYA N. BHANOO

MARCH 17, 2014
 A single gene controls all the colors, structures and wing patterns in a species of swallowtail butterfly, researchers say — allowing it to mimic the look of another swallowtail that is toxic to predators. “Everything traces back to this one gene,” said one of the scientists, Marcus Kronforst, an evolutionary biologist at the University of Chicago. The finding, reported in the journal Nature, was surprising, since the gene, called doublesex, is already known for its role in sexual differentiation in insects. In this role, the gene is responsible for informing every cell in an insect’s body whether it is male or female. Female Papilio polytes swallowtails have one of four wing patterns, three of which mimic the look of different toxic butterflies. While flying, the females become indistinguishable from their toxic counterparts. Advertisement To identify the gene responsible for regulating wing patterns, the researchers mated swallowtails with different patterns and compared the genomes of the offspring, then isolated genes that might be involved in mimicry.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. They were expecting to find a supergene — multiple, tightly linked genes working together. Instead, they found that only one, doublesex, is responsible for mimicry. Advertisement The process of actually producing the various colors and patterns on a wing is complex, Dr. Kronforst said, and many other genes are involved. But “the ultimate top switcher making the decision is doublesex,” he said. “It’s the master switch.” SINDYA N. BHANOO A version of this article appears in print on March 18, 2014, on Page D2 of the New York edition with the headline: Genetic: The Gene Behind a Butterfly Disguise.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page »