Advertisement 

      By NICHOLAS ST. FLEUR

UPDATED January 29, 2018
 
 Shrug off the supermoon. From time to time, the full moon makes a close approach to Earth. But to the casual observer, it probably won’t look much different from a regular full moon. Yet headlines heralding supermoons as some sort of don’t-miss spectacle can be found everywhere. Supermoons aren’t unique in being sensationalized. Several times every year some sort of catchy-named lunar activity grabs attention, whether warranted or not. That’s how we’ve ended up with must-see events like the blood moon, the black moon, the blue moon, the strawberry moon and the harvest moon, among others. Though some of these names have historical and cultural origins, many are rooted in folklore and are often overhyped. Below you’ll find an explanation of the science and origins behind some of these events – like the supermoon that starts off 2018 – that will let you decide whether they are worth late nights or early mornings of moongazing. “The supermoon is a made-up term,” said James Lattis, an astronomer at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. “It’s not an astronomical term, there’s no technical definition of it.” Supermoon was actually coined by an astrologer in the 1970s, not by a scientist. The term has come to loosely mean a full moon that is at perigee, or when the moon is at its closest position to Earth along its orbit. Now, this definition can vary, which means supermoons can occur multiple times a year, or about once every 14 months, depending on the definition you use.  “There’s no fireworks show, no blinking sign that says, ‘Hey, this is the supermoon!’” said Noah Petro, a deputy project scientist for the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter mission. Instead, the supermoon really shines when it is compared with the full moon at apogee, or its farthest position from Earth. If you place images of the two side by side, you can see the difference more easily, Dr. Petro said. The supermoon is 14 percent larger than the apogee full moon and 30 percent brighter. On average, the moon is about 238,900 miles away from Earth. During supermoons it gets closer – in November 2016  when the moon was at its closest approach since 1948, it was approximately 221,524 miles away. Astronomers measure the distance of the moon from Earth by shooting lasers to the surface of the moon, which then bounce off mirrors called retroreflectors, which were left behind by the Apollo missions and two Soviet landers. Even though most people will not notice anything special about any given supermoon, Dr. Petro said they are a good excuse to start gazing at the night sky more regularly. 
            Never miss an eclipse, a meteor shower, a rocket launch or any other astronomical and space event that's out of this world.         
March 1
NASA could launch the GOES-S satellite
 
March 20
Vernal equinox
 
March 20
NASA could launch the TESS spacecraft
 A total lunar eclipse occurs when the moon moves completely behind Earth’s shadow. Recently, this event has given rise to the sinisterly named blood moon, because the moon becomes a dark reddish-brown as it’s consumed by Earth’s shadow. “A term like that has a number of problems,” Dr. Lattis said. “In the case of a total lunar eclipse, they aren’t always red. The term blood moon not only suggests, it exaggerates.” Dr. Lattis also said that the reddish color of the moon during a total lunar eclipse did not have anything to do with the moon itself. Instead, it gets its red appearance because of the way the Earth’s atmosphere scatters light. Rather than make a fuss about its sanguine color, people should admire the total lunar eclipse. Early astronomers like Aristotle used it to figure out that Earth was round by observing the shape of the shadow that the planet casts on the moon.  You can expect the next total lunar eclipse on Jan. 31. We’ve all heard the saying “once in a blue moon,” but what does that really mean? And how often do they occur? There are two definitions that float around for the elusive blue moon. One refers to the second full moon in a calendar month. Full moons typically occur once every 29.5 days. The other definition, which is older, says that a blue moon is the third full moon in a season that had four full moons. Typically, a three-month season has three full moons. So to answer the question, blue moons occur about once every two and a half to three years — most recently on May 21, 2016. But depending on the definition you use, they could occur more frequently. The next one will be on Jan. 31, 2018. And no, they are not blue in color. The ominously named twin to the blue moon, a black moon is in some ways the opposite of its brother. It’s the name given to the second new moon in a month. New moons are the first phases of the moon, during which time they are not visible. The other definition is that a black moon is the third new moon in a season of four new moons. Similar to blue moons, these typically occur about every two and a half to three years. One that occurred on Oct. 31, 2016 made for the spooky-sounding Halloween black moon. Every month’s full moon has a unique name if you look at The Old Farmer’s Almanac. It bestows names like full wolf moon, full worm moon, full flower moon, full buck moon, full sturgeon moon and full beaver moon. Folklore has it that those names came from Algonquin Indian tribes and their terms for the full moon during different times of the year. But that might be debated. “No one knows whether someone made those up in the ’30s or if they go back to real Indian use because there aren’t real records prior to that,” said Gordon Johnston, an Osiris-Rex program executive at NASA who studies moon names as a hobby. June’s moon is known as the full strawberry moon or the full rose moon. The idea behind the names is that they have to do with the season when the Algonquin collected strawberries. Rose moon might have been named by Europeans. Sometimes the moon is tinged red, but that occurs in the summer because the moon appears lower on the horizon.  The harvest moon, unlike some of the other moons, has an astronomical meaning. It is the closest full moon to the autumnal equinox. Folklore says that farmers would use the light of the harvest moon to collect their crops in the fall. The harvest moon appears in September and shines brightly for a few nights in a row. Following the harvest moon is the hunter’s moon, which is thought to have provided people with extra moonlight to seek out food. Both names are relics of a more agrarian era. Now, they provide us with an opportunity to reflect on the moon’s importance to people of the past. “All of these names of the moons are due to the fact that the moon for centuries has captivated humans,” Dr. Petro said. “I wish nowadays we’d do the Super Bowl moon or modernize these names for our culture so people pay attention to the moon.” Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the  Science Times newsletter. Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the  Science Times newsletter. Advertisement