Advertisement By KENNETH CHANGMAY 19, 2014
   An occasional column on developments in what educators call STEM — for science, technology, engineering and math.  Tabtor is an expensive iPad math-teaching app for kindergartners through sixth graders. Although free to download and try for two weeks, thereafter it costs $50 a month per child. At first glance, Tabtor — the name is “tablet tutor” mashed together — does not look particularly different from the hundreds of other math offerings in Apple’s app store and the gazillion math-drill software programs on personal computers. For each problem, there is space on the touch screen to scribble calculations with a finger or a stylus before punching in the answer on an on-screen keypad. A green check mark and a pleasing clanging sword sound greet a correct answer; a wrong one gets a red “X” and a less pleasing clang. There is a second chance to get the problem right. Advertisement So what does the $50 a month buy? Unlike any other math teaching app I’ve encountered, it comes with a human being. Advertisement An instructor assigned to your child reviews the completed worksheets. The app captures all of the calculating scribbles and how much time was spent on each problem, so the instructor can see not only the wrong answers, but also how the mistakes were made. The instructor offers notes and encouraging voice memos and assigns new worksheets. The instructor also checks in via weekly video conference calls. The company says the program follows the Common Core math standards that have been adopted by most states. In a sense, then, Tabtor, based in Kendall Park, N.J., is a tutoring service delivered via iPad. An Android version is planned for this summer. An incentive to the children are the points they earn through correct answers and how quickly they finish the worksheets. Those points can be redeemed for retail gift cards. I have been a paying customer of Tabtor since October, for two of my children: Kelvin, a fifth grader, and Rosalind, a third grader. It is not a panacea. “I hate Tabtor,” Kelvin will say when frustrated by a problem. As with all math tutoring, it must be coordinated with what the children are learning in school. Too big a mismatch, and the children feel Tabtor is pointless. But I still have found it much better than other options, including websites that offer plenty of practice problems but no feedback or guidance.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Tabtor also sells its software to schools, where teachers, not Tabtor instructors, handle the digital interactions with the students. Lori Woods, an instructional support teacher at Greenbrook Elementary School in South Brunswick, N.J., has been using it for a year and says it has helped her greatly in bringing students sent to her for extra help get back to grade level. She shared data that supports her enthusiasm. Students took a diagnostic math test at the beginning of the school year, and then the same test again in March. The first graders, for example, got about 30 percent of the answers right the first time and 90 percent the second time, in March. Advertisement In multiple instances, a student who was far behind at the beginning of the year ended up above the average after sessions with Ms. Woods and Tabtor. “This is the most rigorous math my students have ever done,” she said. She is still teaching the same curriculum, but Tabtor brings 21st-century technology efficiencies to 19th-century teaching methods and materials like worksheets, said Kevin Merges, a researcher at the Davis Institute of Learning at Rutgers who is a former math teacher. “Eighty percent or 90 percent of every teacher’s work is grading things that are correct,” he said. “What we need to be spending our time on is working with students on the things they don’t know.” With Tabtor, Ms. Woods can quickly see the mistakes and how the student got lost. Occasionally, the app even reveals a student’s weaknesses in the correct answers. One fourth grader was getting the right answers for two-digit by one-digit multiplication problems, but it was by simply adding the numbers together multiple times; she had not mastered the multiplication tables. Without Tabtor, “I don’t know I would have diagnosed that,” Ms. Woods said. The flexibility allows her to assign different worksheets to different students — individualized learning, a classroom at a time. A version of this article appears in print on May 20, 2014, on Page D5 of the New York edition with the headline: A Math App That Offers an Unusual Human Touch.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »